Report No. PIC4615
Project Name                     Mongolia-Banking and Enterprise (@)
Sector Adjustment Credit (BESAC)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Financial Sector Development
Project ID                       MNPE41741
Borrower                         Mongolia
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Bank of Mongolia (BOM)
State Property Committee (SPC)
Appraisal Date                   February, 1997
Board Date                       May 1, 1997
Date PID revised                 March 25, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.      Over the past six years, Mongolia has made considerable
progress in transforming its economy into a market system. The
country was plunged into economic turmoil in 1990 when the
collapsing Soviet Union withdrew its subsidies and the CMEA trading
and payments system disintegrated. In 1991, the Government embarked
on a program of economic stabilization and structural reform, and
has implemented an impressive range of measures to expand the scope
of market transactions. These include price and trade
liberalization, a mass privatization program, establishment of a
two-tier banking system, and enactment of new laws and regulations
favorable to private economic participation. After four years of
decline, Mongolia has now succeeded in reducing inflation and
restoring economic growth. During 1996 there have been some
setbacks in this recovery process, attributable largely to the
growing crisis in the financial sector, the destruction of large
areas of pasture land, and a 30 percent decline in copper prices
resulting in rapid currency depreciation. In response, the
recently-elected Government of Prime Minister Enkhsaihan wishes to
accelerate the macroeconomic reform process. It has initiated a new
wave of fiscal reforms, price deregulation and cash privatization
of state-owned entities.
2.      The Banking Sector. Mongolia's financial system, in its
current form, is ill-equipped to serve the emerging market economy.
Commercial banks have become insolvent and illiquid, due to a
legacy of government intervention in credit allocation, poor
commercial banking skills, non-credit worthy borrowers and weak
management. Non-performing loans comprise a significant proportion
of the consolidated portfolio. The banking system is unable to
offer effective financial intermediation, or impose financial
discipline on its clients, partly because many of its largest
clients are non-viable or viable but loss-making enterprises that
consistently fail to service their debts.



3.      The Enterprise Sector. Mongolian enterprises face a variety
of problems in conducting business, ranging from liquidity
shortages and limited access to long-term credit, to diminishing
markets and acute skills shortages at the micro-level. These
problems affect both state-owned and privately-owned entities.
Improved productivity and profitability remain elusive goals,
particularly in the manufacturing sector. The Government has
undertaken some reforms in the enterprise sector, consisting
primarily of voucher privatization and the establishment of a stock
exchange. Privatization has resulted in establishment and
recognition of corporate structures and transfer of legal
ownership. It has also stimulated entrepreneurial activity,
particularly in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises.
However, it has not led to significant changes in competitive
behavior, operational structure, or financial management of large
enterprises.
4.      The Legal Environment. Many of the structural and operational
deficiencies in the banking and enterprise sectors have been
aggravated by weaknesses in the legal and regulatory framework.
Since 1991, Mongolia has enacted an impressive set of laws and
regulations related to the operation of the emerging market
economy. While certain gaps remain to be filled, the application of
the new laws and regulations and their interpretation by the courts
remain problematic, largely because of inadequate institutional
capacity. As a result, banks and enterprises are seriously hampered
by difficulties in such areas as contract enforcement (including
loan collection), secured transactions, and the failure of
bankruptcy procedures.
Government's Objectives and Strategy
5.      The Government has launched a comprehensive program to
transform the banking system into an efficient and safe
intermediator of resources. Moreover, to tackle the problems of the
financial sector, the Government is aware that it needs to fuse
reforms in the financial and enterprise sector into a coherent
strategy. On the banking side, the reform efforts will focus on:
(a) stopping the flow of bad lending from banks to defaulting
borrowers; (b) restructuring individual commercial banks to promote
the development of a solvent, viable banking system; and (c)
developing commercial banking skills and aggressively implement
loan recovery efforts. In the enterprise sector, the objectives are
to: (d) privatize remaining public enterprises that were earmarked
for cash privatization; (e) impose hard budget constraints on
public enterprises; and (f) resolve nonperforming loans to
enterprises through restructuring and/or liquidation.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
6.      Financial sector reform and creating an enabling environment
for private enterprise development are cornerstones of IDA's
country assistance strategy. Since 1992, IDA has been supporting
the development of the Government's macroeconomic management
capability, and legal reform, through technical assistance and
-2 -



continued policy dialogue, in collaboration with other
institutions, particularly the IMF and ADB. In this regard, IDA has
been implementing programs of technical assistance in the areas of
macroeconomic management, financial sector development, and legal
reform.
Project Objectives
7.      IDA's proposed BESAC Project will combine bank reforms with
reform of those enterprises that most adversely influence the
banking system, that is, the largest defaulters to commercial
banks. The Credit will provide timely and responsive support, in
the form of quick-disbursing balance of payments assistance, for
efforts being undertaken by the Government to reform the banking
and enterprise sectors. The principal objectives of the proposed
Credit are:
-- to halt the flow of loans to defaulting borrowers.
-- to support loan recovery efforts by the Government and
commercial banks, through the development of a debt workout unit in
the Trade and Development Bank.
-- to impose hard budget constraints on all public enterprises; and
-- to initiate passive restructuring/liquidation of enterprises,
including the restructuring or liquidation of two large state-owned
enterprises overseen by the SPC, and the restructuring or
liquidation of four private enterprises by the debt work-out unit
in the Trade & Development Bank.
8.      BESAC is twinned with a Banking, Enterprise and Legal
Technical Assistance Credit (BELTAC) that will support the legal
and institutional changes necessary to underpin banking and
enterprise reforms, especially the collateral regime, the
bankruptcy/liquidation process, and judicial support for debt
recovery. BESAC is also coordinated with ADB Financial Sector
Program Loan (FSPL), that will finance the Government's reform
banking recapitalization efforts. Finally, BESAC will be
implemented under the umbrella of an IMF three-year Extended
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF), which is being currently
negotiated with the Government of Mongolia.
Project Description
9.      Banking Reforms. IDA assistance to the banking sector will
focus on putting in place the right incentives for banks to
initiate debt recovery, and the right institutions and culture that
place a premium on repayment and impose strong penalties for non-
repayment. Within this context, BESAC will support the bank
restructuring strategy agreed between the Government, IMF, ADB, and
IDA. The first stages of the restructuring plan are already under
implementation, with the Government closing down the People's and
Insurance Banks in December 1996. The Government has agreed on the
financing modalities for the restructuring exercise, and has issued
Tg 35 billion in bonds to finance the operation.
10.     The Government has established the Mongolia Asset Recovery
-3 -



Agency (MARA), and has licensed the Savings Bank, and the
Reconstruction Bank, as part of the bank restructuring program. IDA
will support loan recovery efforts by Government, through MARA, and
by commercial banks. through MARA, and by commercial banks, through
the development of debt workout units (DWU). The DWU program will
develop a core group of debt workout specialist in the banks
themselves, demonstrate the benefits of bank-led enterprise
restructuring, and, by the end of the project period, jump start
more wide-spread restructuring in the rest of the economy.
11.     In most market economies, banks play a central role in
forcing enterprises to restructure and/or close, either utilizing
in-court processes under the insolvency law or out-of-court debt
restructuring mechanisms. In many market economies, debt work-out
units in banks are the major driving force behind enterprise
restructuring/liquidation. The bank-led restructuring example in
Poland is an interesting case in point. The objective of the Polish
bank conciliation process was to restructure, under the bank's
command, a group of financially troubled enterprises. Throughout
this process, problem Polish debtors tried to negotiate a reduction
in immediate debt service requirements as a means to keep their
firm alive. In return, banks insisted upon partial payments, upon
equity stakes, or upon fundamental changes in the size and
functioning of the firm in order to increase their chances of
future repayment of the remaining debt. The Polish bank
reconciliation process has received wide acclaim, both in terms of
initiating enterprise reform as well as improving the banking
system's loan recovery efforts. One objective of the banking
component of BESAC is to develop such debt workout capacities in
Mongolia. BESAC will assist in the operations of a debt workout
unit in the T&D bank. Initially, this unit will focus on the
restructuring/liquidation of four private enterprises which are
amongst its worst defaulters. These four enterprises, which include
three carpet factories and one textile enterprise, together have
loans outstanding of Tg 9 billion, all of which are in arrears.
Successful restructuring /liquidation of these loans will
illustrate the benefits of debt work-outs and other forms of
passive restructuring. Lessons learnt from this exercise can be
used to fine-tune the legal and institutional framework to
facilitate future workouts, and the skills acquired can be
transmitted both within and outside T&D bank to deal with similar
restructuring problems.
12.     Enterprise Reforms. Banking reforms will be ineffective and
unsustainable without comprehensive reforms in the enterprise
sector where most of the important clients of the banks are
located. Enterprise reforms should facilitate liquidation of non-
viable enterprises, restructuring of potentially viable ones,
efficient functioning of existing enterprises, and entry of new
enterprises. To achieve these goals, IDA support will focus on: (a)
the imposition of hard budget constraints on all public
enterprises; and (b) the passive restructuring or liquidation of
two large state-owned enterprises to be overseen by the State
Property Committee.
-4-



13.     A key element of the Government's banking reform strategy is
to exclude defaulting enterprises from further bank lending. To
survive without bank lending and the subsidy implicit in the
tolerance of default on this lending, these enterprises will be
forced to turn to the budget. This is likely to impose a
significant burden on the budget--greater than what it can bear--
and it is neither sustainable nor desirable. Soft budget
constraints impede enterprise reforms and prevent reforms already
undertaken from having their full impact. Imposition of hard budget
constraints from budgetary sources on the enterprise sector is thus
of paramount importance. The Government would commit to a time-
bound plan to phase out all subsidies to public enterprises in the
manufacturing sector and reduce all budgetary subsidies to all
other public enterprises. Any subsidies would have to be based on
clear criteria, and would have to be provided only through the
regular budgetary process. Loans from the government budget will
not be granted at below-market interest rates and strict repayment
will be enforced.
14.      The SPC, exercising its ownership rights on behalf of the
Government, will initiate work-out exercises for two large, state-
owned enterprises, the Darkhan Mini-metal plant and the Bagahangai
Meat Processing plant. These two enterprises are among the largest
defaulters to the banking sector with total loans outstanding of Tg
3 billion, all of which is in arrears. On entry into the
restructuring/liquidation program, the enterprises will be isolated
from the banking sector and other financiers (such as other
enterprises) and the budget will become the sole source of
financing. As with the private enterprises to be dealt with by the
debt work-out unit of the T&D bank, viability assessments will be
carried out of the enterprises and on the basis of these, either a
restructuring or a liquidation plan will be drawn up. The
restructuring plan will only cover passive restructuring measures,
the implementation of which will be financed through the budget. It
will be a time-bound program to be completed within 18 months. The
enterprise will be expected to achieve a positive operating surplus
for two consecutive months within this period, failing which it
will be liquidated. If it achieves operating surpluses within this
period, it will come out of isolation and go back to commercial
sources of financing.
15.
The cost of the financial restructuring/liquidation of these
enterprises will be borne by the budget which will provide working
capital loans during the isolation period, and subsidies to pay for
the social costs, mainly severance payments. A total of Tg 2.5
billion will be allocated in the 1997 and 1998 budget for this
purpose. The Darkhan Mini-metal plant isolation exercise alone
would cost about Tg 2 billion. All other costs including provisions
for severance and related social security payments for retrenched
workers, amount to about Tg 500 million. These loans will be given
subject to successful implementation of restructuring plans, and
will not exceed Tug 2.5 billion in 1997 and 1998 combined.
Disbursement Arrangements
-5-



16      The Government will open and maintain a Deposit Account in
BOM. Disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases, and
supporting evidence for disbursements is therefore not required. No
special procurement arrangements are envisaged, since they are not
required by tranche release conditions. Tranche release review, and
program supervision, will ensure that the reform programs supported
under the BESAC are carried out as agreed, including timely
provision of resources by the Borrower to meet the costs of program
implementation. Upon tranche release, BOM will submit a simplified
withdrawal application to IDA, against which IDA will disburse
credit proceeds into the Deposit Account. If credit proceeds are
used for ineligible purposes, as defined in the Credit Agreement,
IDA requires the Government to either return and reallocate the
amount, or refund it directly to IDA for cancellation.
17      It is proposed that the credit be disbursed in a single
tranche of US$10 million. Tranche release will be contingent upon
satisfactory implementation of the third-year ESAF program. This
will be monitored by IDA in the course of credit supervision.
Accounts and Audits
18.     MOF would keep full accounts on credit operations,
specifically records of all withdrawals against the Credit. These
records would be updated monthly, and quarterly statements of
transactions and balances, together with necessary recommendations
for disbursements and information on claims in progress, would be
forwarded to IDA. MOF would maintain records of all transactions in
accordance with sound accounting practices. MOF would also ensure
that supporting documents, the basis for statements of expenditure,
are properly maintained. IDA reserves the right to audit the
Deposit Account.
Monitoring Arrangements
19.     MOF will be responsible for monitoring and implementing the
program, and establish a project implementation unit. The proposed
unit will collaborate with dedicated officers in the BOM with
regard to banking reforms and the MOJ with regard to implementation
of legal reforms. IDA will monitor implementation through periodic
reviews. Implementation of the bank restructuring plan will be
jointly monitored by the IMF, ADB and IDA. At each stage, technical
assistance missions will oversee the implementation of the
restructuring plan, and review the status of project
implementation. IDA supervision missions will be coordinated to
overlap with ADB missions to ensure synergy and consistency of
program objectives.
Project Benefits
20.     An economy cannot function, let alone grow and thrive,
without a healthy financial system. The proposed measures require
urgent implementation to ensure that banks are able to fulfill
their roles as efficient collectors of savings, allocators of
credit, and managers of the payments system. Anticipated benefits
- 6 -



for the banking system of the proposed project are measurable
improvements in the quality of commercial bank intermediation, and
in the legal and regulatory framework in which banks operate. In
the long term, this should enable new private enterprises to obtain
financing at competitive rates. The stronger legal and regulatory
framework will help instill greater discipline in the commercial
banks, protecting their long-term solvency as well as the interests
of depositors. This discipline will, in turn, harden budget
constraints faced by enterprises. These pressures, if maintained,
should foster further enterprise reform. In addition, facilitating
the debt recovery process, supported by appropriate legal measures,
will create disincentives for nonrepayment, lower transactions
costs to both borrowers and lenders, and contribute to the
availability of funds for lending. Moreover, the emergence of banks
that have the resources and competence to support a wide range of
business activities (e.g. working capital loans to viable
enterprises, the use of collateral, letters of credit, export
financing) will greatly benefit enterprises.
Project Risks
21.     The biggest risk associated with this type of adjustment
operation is if the restructuring exercise is unsuccessful, and a
core group of viable banks not formed, the process may have to be
repeated two or three years down the line, requiring additional
capital infusion from Government. The Government is fully committed
to these reforms and cannot afford another capitalization exercise.
Moreover, conditions in the banking system have reached a point
where the cost of inaction clearly outweighs the risk of
implementing a difficult restructuring program. The immediate
constraint confronting the authorities is its limited human
resource pool to implement the financial restructuring program.
This poses a formidable challenge. IDA, ADB and bilateral agencies
will provide adequate and timely technical assistance to fit the
needs and capacity of Mongolian banks. This will include the supply
of foreign consultancy services, which are essential given the
currently inadequate local capability to provide such services.
Foreign consultants will be teamed up with local consultants in
order to maximize transfer of skills and knowledge. There may be
opposition to the enterprise financial restructuring/loan workout
program due to fears about the social costs of restructuring and
liquidation. This risk is not too serious in Mongolia, as Mongolian
state-owned enterprises are not overly burdened with such social
assets as housing, hospitals and kindergartens, compared with other
transition economies. However, the risk of a slowdown in the pace
of reforms, emanating from the enterprise sector where the social
costs of adjustment are most apparent, is real in Mongolia. IDA
will maintain continuous dialogue with the Mongolian authorities to
ensure the steady and well sequenced implementation of the
Government's medium-term reform program.
Program Objective category
22.     The program objective categories are financial sector
development, and private sector development. The proposed IDA
- 7 -



Credit is not part of the World Bank's poverty category program.
The proposed Project has been placed in Environmental Category "C"
and does not require an environmental assessment.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 18, 1997.
- 8 -



