Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19285-MOG
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
BANKING AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2947 MOG)
June 25, 1999
Private Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Tugrik (Tg)
1992  $1 = 40.00
1993  $1 = 40.00
1994  $1 = 40.00
1995  $1 = 411.96
1996  $1 = 473.62
1997  $1 = 693.54
1998  $1 = 813.16
1999  $1 = 863.248
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         Asian Development Bank
BESAC       Bank and Enterprise Structural Adjustment Credit
BELTAC    Banking, Enterprise and Legal Technical Assistance Credit
BOM         Bank of Mongolia (Central Bank)
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CIB         Credit Information Bureau
EDI         Economic Development Institute
ESAF        Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FSPL        Financial Sector Program Loan (ADB)
FSTA        Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         Intemational Development Association
IMF         International Monetary Fund
MARA        Mongolian Asset Realization Agency
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOJ         Ministry of Justice
PFP         Policy Framework Paper
PHRD        Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PSDC        Private Sector Development Credit
SPC         State Property Committee
TDB         Trade and Development Bank
Vice President         Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director       Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, EACSM
Sector Manager         Hoon Mok Chung, EASPS
Task Manager           Amanda S. Carlier, Private Sector Development Specialist, EASPS



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE .....................................                                            iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................................v
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .....................................1..I
A.  Project Objectives and Description ................................................................I
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives ...........................,.,.,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.5
C.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...............  10
D.  Project Sustainability ...................... ,,.. 12
E.  World Bank Performance ..................................12
F.  Borrower Performance ....................                 ... 14
G.  Assessment of Outcome .....................,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, 15
1-1.  Future Operations .............. .    .      .       ..         .     .     . 15
I.   Key Lessons Learned ....................,....,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, 1 7
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES .21
Table 1.    Summary of Assessments .................    ,     ,    ,    .,. 21
Table 2.    Related Bank Loans .................. 22
Table 3.    Project Timetable ................ ........ 22
Table 4.    Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual,,. 22
'Fable 5a.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation-Banking Sector
Reform ......., , ,,. ... 23
Table 5b.  Key Indicators for Project Implementation-Enterprise Sector
Reform ....,..,......,,,....... 24
Table 6-a.  Key Indicators for Project Operation-Banking Reform . ,  25
Table 6-b. Key Indicators for Project Operation-Enterprise Reform .26
Table 7.    Studies Included in Project ...,,.,,.,.,............ 27
Table 8a,   Project Costs ........................    ... ....... 28
Table 8b,   Project Financing .............,....,,,,..,,,,,..,,,..,,..,,.,,.,,,.,.28
Table 9.    Economic Costs and Benefits .....................,,,, .      ,,,.. 28
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants .29
Table 11.  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .                         29
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .30
T'able 13, Bank Resources: Missions .30
ANNEX A: AIDE MEMOIRE-SUPERVISION AND ICR PREPARATION
MISSION . ............... 31
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .40
Ibis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfomelance of their official dudeos. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed uwithout
World lBank authorization.



iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
BANKING AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2947 MOG)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Comipletioni Report (ICR) for the Banking and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Credit (BESAC) in Mongolia, for wilicih a Credit in the amount of US$10
million equivalent was approved by the Bank Board on May 1. 1997, signed on July 31, 1997,
and became effective on November 26, 1997. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1998. It
was fully disbursed in a single tranche on January 6, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Amanda Carlier, Private Sector Development Specialist. East
Asiai and Pacific Region (EASPS), with assistance from  Luca Papi, Consultant, and Robin
Hartman, Team Assistant. It was reviewed by Gary Fine, EASPS. The draft ICR was
communicated to and reviewed by the Governmenit, who had no substantial comments.
Preparation of this ICR began during the IDA's Supervision/ICR preparation mission in
November 1998. It is based on the inforimiationi and material gathered by the mission in
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, and in the project file in Washiligtoni. The Borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR by providing their owIn evaluation of the Project's execution and
Operating Plan (see ANNEX B), and reviewinig the draft ICR.






v
MONGOLIA
1BANKING AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2947 MOG)
EVALUATION SIIMMARY
I.  Objectives. The Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (BESAC) aimed to
support the banking and enterprise reform program of the Mongoliani Government and to assist
the country in meeting the financial requirements of the reform programil. BESAC's objective was
to restore functional efficiency and support the institutional developmenit of the banking sector, as
well as to improve the economic performance of the enterprise sector. The maill structural
problems were to be tackled using an integrated approach. On the bankiinig sector front, BESAC
pursued the following key objectives: (i) supportinlg the implemilenltationi of the bank restructuring
strategy; (ii) stepping up the commercial banki loan recovery effort; and (iii) assisting the
Government in the adjustment of the bankinig sector needed to serve a new market-oriented
economy. BESAC also supported the implementation of enterprise reform that complemented the
banking sector strategy. The Project's key objectives in the enterprise sector were the: (i)
imposing hard budget constraints on public enterprises; (ii) restructurilig or liquidating selected
enterprises that were not economically viable; and (iii) contributinig to private sector development
by accelerating privatization and strengthenlilng the economic legal framework.
2.  The BESAC objectives were consistent with the 1995 Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) and with the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for the period 1997-2000. There were also
close synergies between BESAC and the Bankigig Enterprise and Legal Technical Assistance
Credit (BELTAC). The BESAC objectives were important for the development of the Mongolian
economy, and without BESAC, the stabilization program and the medium-term reform strategy
would not have been sustainable and credible. In 1996. the banking sector was on the verge of
collapse; measures taken within the BESAC program were timely and effective in tackling the
bankinig crisis. BESAC's objectives were clearly specified, but too ambitious, too wide in scope,
as well as very demandinlg both for the economily as a whole and for some of the agencies in
charge of implementing the programil components.
3.  Implementation Experience and Results. The BESAC program achieved many of its
objectives by impactinlg positively on the banking and enterprise sector reform and generally
helping to establish a more appropriate framework for a market economy. Good progress has
been  made in restructurinlg enterprises, imposing hard budget constraints, and also in improving
thec legal enviromilelt.
4.  The most important actions were taken prior to credit effectiveness, when the Government
dealt directly with two major problem banks. Two nonviable banks were closed, and a large
amount of non-performing loans was carved out to a newly-established special agency
Mongolian Asset Recovery Agency (MARA). BESAC improved the debt workout capacity
throughi the support of MARA and a special debt workout unit established in the Trade and
Development Banik (TDB). To help stem the flow of bad loans, the BOM established new
statistical surveys, which were intended to help banks in controlling credit risk. The legal
environment was also improved. An insolvency law became effective in January 1998. Some
amiendments to the banking law became effective in September 1998. As part of the BESAC



vi
program, the Government pursued a strict fiscal policy aimed at hardening the budget constraint
for state-owned enterprises. Within the enterprise restructuring component, all BESAC
conditions have been recently met. BESAC envisaged an economic analysis of two large state-
owned enterprises (Darkhan Minimetal and Bagahangai Meat plants) in order to decide on either
viable reorganization or liquidation of the two entities; restructuring plans of the two enterprises
are now under way. Partial progress has been made on the privatization front. The majority of
small firms and properties have already been sold. However, the biggest and most sensitive
industries have not yet been privatized, and bank privatization is a long way behind schedule.
5.  Results in the macroeconomic stabilization process were patchy, but all in all, they can be
considered positive and supportive of the BESAC program. The creation of a stable environment
for economic growth received strong support from the declining inflation rate, and from
reallocation of credit towards the private sector. However, the amount of credit extended by
commercial banks to private enterprises is still limited and insufficient for the strong growth of
private investment. Bank interest rates have been particularly sticky, and have remained
extremely high despite the strong reduction of inflationi: the higih levels of bank interest rates
constituted the main impediment against souLid credit demand, and hence, against private sector
development. Under these conditions, demand for credit has originated mainlly among very short-
term-oriented traders, and adversely selected borrowers, for whom the probability of default is
extremely high.
6.  BESAC intended to help place the Mongolian bankinig sector on a sustainable path to
eventual full recovery and sound functioning. Durinig the last two years, however, the Mongolian
banking sector has achieved mixed results. Compared to 1997, the general situation of the sector
deteriorated during 1998 in terms of loan quality, capital adequacy and profitability. Bank
governance has not made significant progress. A chanice to privatize a major bank in trouble was
recently missed, and much of the system is still ulider state control. A bank restructuring and
privatization strategy recently discussed by the Mongolianl authiorities, envisages privatization
within a relatively short period of time. Given the recent political stalemate and the financial
difficulties of some major banks, the privatization schedule appears highly ambitious. At this
juncture, it is difficult to state that the banking sector is on a soutid trajectory. While the sector is
less vulierable today than it was before BESAC, the system as a whole remains fragile.
7.  Project Design and Implementation. Thle general assessment of the project design is
marginally satisfactory. The BESAC design  benefited fromi its twin project, BELTAC. Risks and
constraints for the project were adequately identified, but some questions can be raised
concerning the structure of the operation. BESAC was a single-tranichie operation; it envisaged
actions to be taken prior to Board presenltationi and credit effectiveness, but there was no real
additional conditionality once the loan was disbursed. BESAC  was implemented almost
according to the planned schedule; a delay occurred in project effectiveness because of the time
spent on ratifying the agreement by the Mongolianl Parliamenit. The program was also hampered
by two severe shocks to the terms of trade, and by political events which ended in prolonged
political stalemate in 1998.
8.  The Borrower's performance was mixed. The Borrower performed satisfactorily- during
project preparation. Despite various constrainits, including limited human resources, the
authorities can take credit for a number of significalnt and positive actions.  Areas where
Borrower performance could have been more effective include: implementation; adequacy of
monitoring; and evaluation of the project.



vii
9.  World Bank performance was satisfactory. The bank restructuring plan implemented prior to
credit effectiveness was a prompt and appropriate move which tackled a very urgent problem. At
the same time, it was a good idea to focus BESAC actions on supporting the only viable bank at
that time. Minor criticisms can be made concerning insufficient coordination with other donors
during the supervision phase, and concerning the assistance provided to the implementing
agencies in dealing with possible solutions to the flagged problems.
10. BESAC's outcome as a whole can be rated as satisfactory. With a few exceptions, BESAC
aclhieved most of its objectives. Many of the most important actions were taken prior to loan
efl'ectiveness, when reasonable results were achieved in solving the 1996 banking crisis. The
enabling environment for the private sector made good progress by reducing inflation
significantly, privatizing a large number of small and medium enterprises, imposing hard budget
constraints, and also improving the legal componenits envisaged by the Project. Under BESAC,
the restructuring of some big enterprises was initiated, and a significanit contribution to
institution-building must be considered as positive. Overall, the Bank's work in the context of
BEfSAC helped Mongolia to formulate and implemenit an importanit reformi agenda in the banking
and enterprise sectors.
I 1. Sustainability. The achievements in the enterprise sector are expected to be sustainable-
but this is less certain for the banking sector. The Mongoliani Governmeit needs to undertake a
number of follow-up actions to ensure sustainability of the bankinlg sector reform, in particular:
bank restructuring and privatization need to go ahead; further progress on the legal and
regulatory front is required; the amount of non-performing loans for the system as a whole and
the level of loan interest rates should be reduced; MARA needs stronger support from the
Government to continue in its effort of debt recovery; and the fiscal deficit has not been brought
down to the target levels.
Key Lessons Learned
. Government Commitment and Credit Structure. The strong commitment of the Government
was critical in achieving the project's objectives. Wheni the Government's attention phased
itself out, implementation performance suffered. The lesson here is that conditionality should
be used as much as possible to induce the Governmenit to maintain its effort and its
commitment to the project's success.
* Project Monitoring and Supervision. Monitorinig and supervisioni is important, especially in
the early phase of reforms when slippage may occur. However, supervision activity may lose
most of its relevance if follow-up action is not possible or not contemplated within the project
design.
* Focus on Enforcement rather than Approval/ Establishment. Project objectives should give
priority to measures relevant to law implementationi and enforcemenlt. BESAC envisaged the
submission of a draft insolvency law to Parliamenlt prior to credit effectiveness, but no further
action was contemplated to implement the law. Similarly, in the case of the CIB, BESAC
focused its emphasis on the creation of a new institution, rather than on its operational
functioning and achievements.
* Legal Infrastructures, Banking Reforms, and Credit Structure. Reform of the banking
sector in transitional economies is a very slow process that requires investment and changes in
institutions, legal infrastructures, and human capital. Consequently, more attention could have
been paid to the structure of the Credit, in the sense that a two-tranche operation would have



viii
allowed the Bank to include and monitor certain critical objectives that normally take more
time to be achieved.
* Fiscal Consequences of Banking Reform. More attention should be paid to the fiscal
consequences of banking sector reforms, in order to assess short-term and long-term costs. This
requires the construction of credible scenarios regarding the future viability of the newly-
established financial institutions.
* Institution-Building and Technical Assistance. When institution building is crucial for a
project's objectives, as it is in transitional economies, structural adjustment operations that
provide a broad agenda for reforms in particular sectors should be accompanied and supported
by parallel, well-designed and timely technical assistance projects. BESAC and BELTAC
constituted a good attempt at implementinig this simple principle.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
B3ANKING AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2947 MOG)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives and Description
1.  Project Background. The Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (BESAC) of
Special Drawing Rights 7,200,000 (equivalenit to US$10 million) was a single-traniche adjustment
operation designed to support the structural reforms in the banking and enterprise sectors.
Mongolia joined the Bank in February 1991, and BESAC was the Bank's first operation focusing
on the Mongolian banking and enterprise sectors. 1
2.  At the time when preparation for BESAC started, Mongolia's economy was still troubled at
the structural level, but showing signs of emerginig from its difficult period of adaptation to the
newv market economy. In 1994 and 1995, for the first time after the transformation of the
economy. Mongolia achieved positive real growth. Unfortunately, during 1996, as preparation for
the BESAC intensified, the Mongolian economy was hit by a succession of external and internal
shocks. External developments comprised tertns of trade negative shocks: world copper price
declined by 25 percent; and cashmere price by 10 percent.2 The external current account deficit
widened to 11 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). On the internal front, many
enterprises were experiencing a deep economic and financial crisis. Tax revenues fell sharply,
and spendinig pressures intenisified, especially in the run up to the June 1996 national elections.
As a result, the budget deficit rose to 9.5 percent of GDP from 4 percent in 1995. The economic
difficulties of the enterprise sector combined with old problems within the banking system caused
a s,evere bankinig crisis. Most commercial banks were illiquid, and some of the largest ones
insolvent. In 1996. only one bank was able to maintaini adequate reserves with Bank of Mongolia
(BOM), while the remaining banks had to rely on BOM funding. Against these developments, it
became clear to the Government that a decisive program of reforms was necessary to complete
Mongolia's transition to a full market economy. The new government, elected in June 1996, took
steps to accelerate the pace of structural reforms and the stabilization of the economy. The
approval of the BESAC program was one of those steps.
3.  Project Objectives. The BESAC aimed to support the banking and enterprise reform
program of the first non-communist elected Mongolian Government, and to assist Mongolia in
meeting the financial requirements of the reform program. BESAC built on and complemented
the macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms undertaken by the Government within
both the IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) and ADB Financial Sector
I A Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (FSTA). financed by Japan's Policy and Human Resources
Development Fund (PHRD). was approved in 1994 to finance advisory assistance to BOM's Banking Supervision
Department, and preparation of a legal diagnostic study of financial and commercial legislation.
2 In 1995, mineral products, mainly copper. accounted for 65.5 percent of total Mongolian exports; textiles, mainly
cashmere. for 21.4 percent.



2
Program Loan (FSPL) programs. BESAC's objective was to restore functional efficiency and to
support the institutional development of the banking sector, as well as to improve the economic
performance of the enterprise sector. The main structural problems of the two sectors were to be
tackled using an integrated approach. Banking sector project objectives and enterprise sector
project objectives are presented separately below. Specific actions and monitoring indicators
related to the banking and enterprise sector program and following credit effectiveness are
presented in Box 1.
4.  Banking Sector Project Objectives. On the bankinig sector front. BESAC pursued the
following key objectives: (i) supporting the implementation of the banlk restructuring strategy; (ii)
stepping up the commercial banki loan recovery effort: and (iii) assisting the Government in the
adjustment of the banking sector needed to serve a new market-oriented economny.
5.  Within the support of the overall bank restructuring strategy. important up front measures
were implemented prior to Board presentation. These measures included: the liquidation of two
large insolvent banks (People's Bank and Insuranice Bank); the establishment of two new
commercial banks (Savings Bank and Reconstructioni Batik), and the creation of the Mongolian
Asset Realization Agency (MARA). At the same time, the performing assets of the two insolvent
banks were transferred to the two new banks, and all non-performing inherited loans were
removed from the banks' balance sheets and replaced by government bonds. Moreover, for the
two remaining large financial institutions that were also facing serious financial difficulties
(Agriculture Bank and Investment and Technological Innovation Bank), Memoranda of
Understanding were signed between the BOM and the two banks in order to guide and monitor
the required bank rehabilitation.
6.  The second core componenit of the BESAC intervention in the Mongolian banking sector
was related to the development of a debt workout capacity and to the intensification of the loan
recovery efforts by the government and commercial banks. This was a two-pronged strategy. On
the one hanid. the recovery of the stock of noti-performing loans was delegated to MARA and to a
special debt wvorkout unit within Trade and Development Bank (TDB). On the other hand,
measures to deal with the flow problem of new loans extended to potential defaulting borrowers
were adopted as well. In particular, actions were taken to stop directed lending through the
commercial banks, and BOM issued regulationis to halt all bank credit to defaulting borrowers. A
Credit Informatioii Bureau (CIB) was also established within the BOM  to enable banks to
determine if any borrower was in default to a third bank.
7.  The third component comprised a mix of measures aimed at modernizing and enhancing the
role of the banking sector in the new market economy. In this context. BESAC envisaged a
review of the implementation and the effectiveness of the central bank and banking laws. BESAC
also assisted TDB in a bank twinning arrangement to promote international banking practices.
Finally, bank privatization was considered as part of the Government's medium-term reform
program.
8.  Enterprise Sector Project Objectives. BESAC supported the implementation of enterprise
reform that complemented the banking sector strategy. The Project's key objectives were the
following: (i) imposing hard budget constraints on public enterprises; (ii) restructuring or
liquidating selected enterprises that were not economically viable; and (iii) contributing to private
sector development by accelerating enterprise privatization and strengthening the economic legal
framework.
9.  The imposition of hard budget constraints was a key element to prevent defaulting
enterprises, cut off from bank credit, turning to the budget as an alternative source of finance. In



3
so doing, the imposition of hard budget constraints was supposed to complement the banking
sector strategy, and to stop the drain on public resources that these enterprises represented. The
implementation of harder budget constraints envisaged the reduction of the level of arrears in
enterprise loan payments to the budget, and the phasing out of subsidies, transfers and subsidized
loans made under the budget to public enterprises. A few exceptions were made for urban
transport, electricity, and heating enterprises, and two state-owned enterprises included in the
State Property Commission (SPC)-led pilot restructuring exercise.
10. The enterprise restructuring component ained also to restructure or liquidate six selected
enterprises chosen on the basis of their relatively large amount of defaults to banks.3 Out of
these six, two enterprises were state-owned (Darkhan Minimetal and Bagahangai Meat) and the
respective restructuring exercises were carried out by the SPC. The objective was to attain either
a viable reorganization or a liquidation of the two entities, based on the results of two preliminary
viability assessments. The same objective applied to the remaining four enterprises; in these cases
the TDB was in charge of the restructuring plan silce the four enterprises were among the TDB's
worst defaulters.4
11. The private sector development component envisaged a widespread and rapid privatization
program and a strengthening of the economic legal framework. The privatization program aimed
to increase the number of privatized enterprises in order to improve the governance structures of
enterprises and to increase the volume of the budget revenues. The progress on the legal front
envisaged the preparation of a draft insolvency law.
12.  Evaluation of Objectives. The BESAC objectives were consistent with the first Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), prepared in June 1995, and with the Policy Framework
Paper (PFP) for the period 1997-2000. Both CAS and PFP aimed at three main objectives: (i)
establishing macroeconomic stability, reducing the size of the state sector and fostering private
sector development by strengthening the banking sector; (ii) developing a more transparent and
effective legal system; and (iii) promoting foreign investment. BESAC was also consistent with
the other concurrent IDA operations. In particular, there were close synergies between BESAC
and the Banikinig, Enterprise and Legal Technical Assistance Credit (BELTAC); the latter had an
explicit short-tern objective aiming to facilitate the implementation of BESAC through financing
for advisory support, traininig and equipment to TDB, SPC and Ministry of Justice (MOJ). The
social impact of banking and enterprise reforms were mitigated by a Poverty Alleviation Project
(Credit 2760-MOG).
13. The BESAC objectives were important for the development of the Mongolian economy.
Without BESAC intervention in the banking and enterprise sectors, the stabilization program and
the overall medium-term reform strategy would not have been sustainable and credible. In 1996,
the banking sector was on the verge of collapse with most commercial banks facing a liquidity
and solvency crisis. In light of the situation of the banking sector at that time, measures taken
wilthin the BESAC program were timely and effective in tackling the banking crisis.
14. With some exceptions, BESAC objectives were clearly specified, but too ambitious and too
wide in scope. BESAC envisaged different components, including objectives related to the
banking sector, the legal system, fiscal adjustment, the enterprise sector, and the establishment of
new institutions. The scope of these objectives was too wide, especially for a single-tranche loan
with a relatively small leverage on the borrower. The BESAC objectives were also demanding for
3 The combined defaulted loans of the six selected enterprises accounted for about a third of all past due loans, and
about 15 percent of total loans outstanding to the banking sector.
4 Arrears to the four private enterprises to TDB alone represented 43 percent of TDB's total loans.



4
the economy as a whole. The realism of the Project has to be evaluated in conjunction with the
whole program of intermational assistance that Mongolia received in that period, among which
there was a three-year arrangement under the IMF ESAF program, and a $35 million credit from
the ADB. These two important programs had with BESAC a commonality of economic goals in
terms of macroeconomic stabilization, banking and enterprise sector objectives. However, these
operations have probably constituted a heavy workload for the absorptive capacity of a small and
troubled country, which at that time was also struggling with a severe banking crisis.
15. In some cases. BESAC  was also demanding for some of the agencies in charge of
implementing those actions envisaged by the BESAC agreement. For instance, TDB work load to
assess the viability of four large defaulters first, and then to implement restructuring/liquidation
plans can be objectively considered as a very demanding task. given the initial conditions,
constraints, and potential of TDB.
Box 1: Actions and monitoring indlicatorsfollowing credit effectiveness.
Specific actions related to the banking sector program and following credit effectiveness included the
following:
*  prepare privatization plans, acceptable to IDA, to privatize all state-owned banks (by July 1, 1998;
institutional responsibility: BOM, State Property Committee (SPC));
*  complete a review of the implementation of the banking law (by July I, 1998; institutional
responsibility: BOM, Ministry of Justice (MOJ));
*  move the CIB to an organization independent of the BOM (by December 31, 1998: institutional
responsibility: BOM);
*  complete viability assessments for four selected enterprises (by December 31, 1997: institutional
responsibility: TDB and selected enterprises)
*  complete implementation of restructuring/liquidation plans of selected enterprises (by December 31,
1998; institutional responsibility: TDB and selected enterprises).
Specific actions related to the enterprise sector program and following credit effectiveness included the
following:
*  reduce the level of arrears in enterprise loan payments to the budget to 24 percent of loans outstanding
in 1997: 10 percent in 1998. and 0 percent in 1999 (institutional responsibility: MOF).
* eliminate all government subsidies to public enterprises starting from the 1997 budget, with the
exception of urban transport enterprises which will be limited to Tg455 million in 1997, Tg600 million
in 1998, and Tg700 million in 1999 (institutional responsibility: MOF).
* stop all government loans, except to enterprises in electricity and heating, starting from the 1997
budget. MOF loans to these enterprises will be given at 2 percentage points below the central bank bill
rate in 1997: at the central bank bill rate in 1998, and at market rates by the 1999 (institutional
responsibility: MOF).
*  complete viability assessments for Darkhan Minimetal and Bagahangai Meat plants (by December 31,
1997), approve respective restructuring/liquidation plans (by March 31, 1998), and implement and
complete restructuring/liquidation plans (by December 3 1, 1998) (institutional responsibility: SPC and
MOF).
*  prepare a privatization program for all state-owned enterprises (by July 1, 1997; institutional
responsibility: SPC).
*  present a draft insolvency law to Parliament, satisfactory to IDA (by September 30, 1997; institutional
responsibility: MOJ).



5
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
16. Assessment of BESAC must take account of the initial condition and the peculiar situation
of Mongolia. Mongolia was, and is still, different from many other transition economies. It is a
small economy and geographically isolated; population is 2.7 million, with one of the lowest
population densities in the world, and a large component of nomads. Prior to political reform,
Mongolia had almost no connection with market economies. Foreign investment has been very
limited so far.  Moreover, Mongolia was ruled by a communist regime for 70 years.
Consequently, human capital, institutions and legal framework relevant for a market economy
were extremely scarce. Any assessment of a program aiming to introduce and strengthen a full
market-oriented economy has to consider these Mongolian features which make the achievement
of good results relatively more difficult compared with many transition economies.
17. On this premise, and with a few exceptions. the program supported by the BESAC achieved
many of its objectives. BESAC has had a positive impact on banking and enterprise sector
reform. The Borrower has implemented a number of actions to establish a more appropriate
frarnework for a market economy. Despite some delays in the implementation of some covenants,
the Project has moved ahead almost as planned. The observed delays were mainly due to factors
that were out of the control of the Mongolian implementing agency.5 Good progress has been
made in restructuring enterprises, imposing hard budget constraints, and also in improving the
legal environment. The underlying macroeconomic framework has contributed to supporting
these reforms. However, some areas require on-going action by the Mongolian authorities: the
biggest state-owned enterprises need to be privatized; bank restructuring and privatization need to
go ahead: MARA needs stronger support from the government to continue to recover debts.
Progress under the BESAC Program
18. Legal Covenants. The most important actions within the BESAC program were taken prior
to credit effectiveness, when the government dealt directly with two major problem banks. Two
nonviable banks were closed (People's Bank and Insurance Bank), and a large amount of non-
performing loans was carved out to a special newly-established agency (MARA). The major
covenants after effectiveness were instead related to developing debt workout capacity, stopping
the flow of bad loans, improving the legal environment, imposing hard budget constraints, and
restructuring enterprises.
19. Developing Debt Workout. MARA was established in December 1996, with a very
ambitious goal of expected recovery equal to 90 percent of assets transferred during its three year
lifetime. Since its creation, Tg3O.8 billion of bad loans have been transferred to MARA from
People's Bank, Insurance Bank, and more recently from Central Asia Bank. MARA was quite
successful in recovering bad loans in 1997. During that year, MARA recovered TgS.4 billion (18
percent), of which about 50 percent was in cash and the rest in physical assets. However, more
recent performance has been less satisfactory. During 1998, the amount of debt recovered has
declined to Tgl.4 billion, of which Tg880 million was in cash. MARA has been facing growing
legal, administrative, and financial difficulties. However, despite many obstacles, MARA's
management is still optimistic about debt recovery potential for 1999. According to MARA, a
significant percentage of outstanding bad loans-almost 50 percent-could be recovered during
5 Delays in court decisions and the strong decline in the price of copper in 1998 were two cases in point.



6
1999. However, given the past performance and the growing difficulties MARA is facing, such
an estimate seems to be too optimistic.
20. Another special Debt Workout Unit-responsible for the recovery of the four large non-
performing loans extended to Ulaanbaatar Carpet Factory, Erdenet Carpet Factory. Herlen Carpet
Factory, and Ermeel Textile Company-was established within TDB in mid-1997. The Debt
Workout Unit has been functioning with two staff and overseen by a director-level manager.6
The Unit has not met the deadline for the viability assessments and liquidation/restructuring plans
established in the BESAC  agreement. This was due to some delays caused by the late
Parliamentary ratification of BESAC first, and then to the long-lastinig and time-consuming
lawsuits with the defaulted borrowers. However, recently all the pending legal disputes between
TDB  and the four borrowers have been resolved, and TDB  is making some progress in
recovering debt, but is still short of the 30% recovery target set out in the President Report. In the
second part of 1998, TDB effort in debt recovery was boosted thaniks to the technical assistance
component of BELTAC. Within that program, NBR. the constiltinlg firm  having the twillilig
arrangement with TDB, made viability assessments and loan restructuring plans for the four
enterprises.
21. Stopping the Flow of Bad Loans. Two measures requested by BESAC were expected to
contribute to the solution of the bad loan flow problem: the issue of a BOM regulation requiring
all commercial banks to report (on a monthly basis) their ten largest loans, and theestablishment
of the CIB within BOM. In a second stage, the CIB was also expected to become an organization
independent of BOM.
22. In line with BESAC requirements, BOM issued the required regulation, and the CIB was
established in March 1997. One person and one computer have been deployed at the CIB. All in
all, information provided by the Bureau has been poor and limited, and access to the system has
been cumiibersome. CIB's present status leaves room  for improvement, and its usefulness for
commercial banks and central bank purposes remains scarce. The CIB was not transformed into
an organization inidepenidenit from  the BOM  by the end of 1998, as stated in the Letter of
Development Policy, and at present it is still part of the BOM.7  By and large, CIB's role in
assisting commercial banks in managing credit risk is still very limited, and no progress has been
made since its establishmenlt.
23. Improving the Legal Environment. BESAC required the presentation of a draft of the
insolvency law and a full review of the banking law. A draft insolvency law was prepared and
ratified in November 1997, and became effective in January 1998. The new insolvency law
regulates the relationships between creditors and debtors under bankruptcy conditions and
provides the necessary procedures for the rehabilitation or the liquidation of the insolvent entities.
However, the application of the new law still encounters obstacles due to the lack of
implementing rules. On this front, useful initiatives are being implemented within BELTAC.8
24. A review of the banking law was initiated by the BOM, and some important amendments
were approved by the Parliament; they have been effective since September 14, 1998. The most
6 According to BESAC. the unit was expected to comprise a director-level manager and four full-time TDB staff.
7 BOM has recently developed an ambitious plan to strengthen the CIB in terms of financial and human resources,
quality and amount of information gathered, links and procedures. In order to implement such a plan, BOM intends to
apply for World Bank financial assistance within the technical assistance component of the Private Sector
Development Credit, which was approved by the Board of Directors of IDA on May 25, 1999
8 Within BELTAC, thirty three judges were trained on insolvency issues, and three judges are about to visit South
Korea to get experience and to study the Korean case; these three judges will be responsible for preparing the
implementing rules of the new insolvency law.



7
significant changes introduced were as follows: The selection criteria for commercial bank
executives, chairmen, and members of the Board of Directors have been tightened to prevent
people with a doubtful past and insufficient banking skills and experience from being nominated.
The BOM  has increased its control over commercial banks.9 The minimum amount of the paid-
up capital has been raised from Tg400 million to Tgl billion, and dividend distribution has been
made conditional to compliance with BOM  criteria. Auditing of commercial bank books, and
comrmercial bank financial reporting has been made more reliable and transparent. In case of
breeLch of the banking law, banks, staff members. and director executives now face higher
penalties. Moreover, changes in the banking regulation have been recently introduced. Some
important amendments refer to capital adequacy requiremenits, and loan classification.
25. Imposing Hard Budget Constraints. As part of the BESAC program, the Government
pursued a strict fiscal policy aimed at hardeninig the budget constraint for state-owned enterprises.
In 1998, the Government did not provide subsidies to public enterprises, except to urban transport
enterprises which received Tg500 million subsidies during 1 998 (same amount as 1997). During
1997-1998, there was no lending to public enterprises, even including electricity and heating
companies. The level of arrears in enterprise loan repayments to the budget was reduced by 11
percent in 1998 (50 percent decrease in 1997) from Tgl O.5 billion to Tg9.4 billion. Moreover, the
Government remains committed to lend, in case of need, at market rates in 1999.
26. Enterprise Restructuring and Privatization. Within the Enterprise Restructuring
Cornponent, BESAC envisaged an economic analysis of two state-owned enterprises (Darkhan
Mhinimetal and Bagahangai Meat plants) to decide about either a viable reorganization or a
liquidationi of the two entities. BESAC requested to complete an availability assessment by
December 31, 1997, to approve respective restructuring/liquidation plans by March 31, 1998, and
to implemenit and complete restructuring/liquidation plans by December 31, 1998. At the end of
1997, right after the ratification of BESAC, the State Property Committee selected BMB, a Dutch
conisultitlg firm, to conduct viability assessment and restructuring/liquidation plans for both
enterprises. All these reports were recently completed, and restructuring plans of the two
enterprises are unlder way. As far as the Enterprise Restructuring Component is concerned,
BE:SAC conditionis have been met, although with some delays. However, some concerns can be
expressed on the terms and amount of credit extended by the MOF to the two enterprises.10
27. Under the Government privatization strategy, approved in July 1997, all state-owned
economic enterprises (about 850) are expected to be privatized by the year 2000. During 1997,
privatization revenues amounted to Tgl5 billion (1.9 percent of GDP), and Tgl6 billion revenue
are expected for fiscal year 1998. The majority of small firms and properties have already been
sold, but the biggest and most sensitive industries have not been privatized yet.
9 For instance. BOM. on its own initiative. may now call for a general shareholder meeting of a commercial bank at
any time, and misleading advertising by banks is now strictly prohibited.
10 In June 1998. an agreement was reached about the on-lending arrangement between the MOF and the two
enterprises. The terms of the arrangement for the "working capital" ]ending envisage a ten year maturity, four year
grace period. and I percent interest rate per year. The two parts also agreed on a disbursement schedule that envisaged
full disbursement of Tgl billion by July 1997 for BMP. and about Tg2 billion by the end of 1999 for DMP. However,
MOF has disbursed so far only about 77 percent of the committed funds. This delay has negatively affected the
performance of the two enterprises. and especially BMP given its seasonal activity. Moreover, the two enterprises
complained about the asymmetry of the penalty determination mechanism (penalties are envisaged for delay in
repayment by enterprises. but there is no penalty for delay in disbursement by the MOF).



8
28. Overall, judged by the legal covenants envisaged before and after the credit became
effective, the project was successful in achieving most of its objectives, and the Project's
outcome can be rated as satisfactory.
29. Macroeconomic Policies. Results in the macroeconomic stabilization process were patchy,
but all in all they can be considered positive and supportive of the BESAC program. In particular,
the creation of a stable environment for economic growth received strong support from  the
declining inflation rate, and from reallocation of credit towards the private sector.
30. Since the beginning of the reform process, the authorities adopted a fully convertible and
floating exchange rate regime. fully liberalized the capital accoulnt, deregulated interest rates, and
eliminated directed credits. Over the last two years. remarkable achievemelits on inflationl were
combined with less satisfactory results on the fiscal and external accounts, mainly caused by
external developments. In 1996 and 1998, Mongolia was hit by tw o severe and similar external
shocks which affected negatively the terms of trade. In both years, the economy faced trouble
coming from  declininig prices of Mongolia's major export commodities that caused a sigilificant
reduction in tax revenues and a deterioration of both the fiscal and external accounts. Attempts by
the BOM  to maintailn a stable nom inal exchange rate to control inflation contributed to an
appreciation of the real exchange rate, which in turn further worsened the external trade balance.
In both years the deterioration of the budget account forced the IMF ESAF program off track.
3 1. Monetary policy was relatively tight througilout the 1996-98 period, and the inflation rate
fell significantly.'1 Inflation rate was equal to 17.5 in 1997 and single-digit inflation rate is
expected for 1998. Credit allocation shifted in favor of the private sector,12 and lending to public
enterprises and the governmaenit declined. However, the amount of credit extended by commercial
bankis to private enterprises has been limited and insufficient for a strong growth of private
investmenit. Bank interest rates have been particularly sticky, and have remained extremely high
despite the strong reduction of inflationi; the high levels of bank interest rates have constituted the
major impedhient against a sound credit demand, and hence against private sector development.
Under these conditionis, demand for credit has originated mainly among very short-term-oriented
traders, and adversely selected borrowers for whom the probability of default is extremely high.
This situation has been adding fuel to a vicious circle which compels banks to channel a small
amount of resources to the private sector.]3 In addition to trade finance, banks occasionally have
extended very short-term  vsorking capital loans, but almost no term finance has been available in
Mongolia.
32. In general, important positive results have been achieved with regard to the macroeconomic
situation during the last two years, especially on the inflation side. All in all, the assessment of
the progress made on the macroeconomic front can be considered satisfactory.
33. Project's Impact on the Mongolian Banking Sector. BESAC was an ambitious. program.
In addition to the explicit covenants envisaged in the loan agreement, BESAC intended to help
place the Mongolian banking sector on a sustainable path to full eventual recovery and sound
functioning. In this respect, assessment of the achievement of this ambitious objective is more
1I  The Government's objective was to reduce and curb inflation significantly in few years; based on the letter of
development policy, the Government targeted inflation to 25 percent in 1997, and to single-digit annual inflation by
the year 2000.
12 Commercial banks' claims on the private sector were 39.4 percent of total claims in 1997, and 49.5 percent in
October 1998 (the latest available figure).
13 Bank intermediation is still very low in Mongolia: as of December 1997, broad money and credit to the private
sector amounted to 27.6 percent and 6.3 percent of GDP, respectively. Currency in circulation still represents 34
percent of broad money.



9
complex. First, it is too early to evaluate BESAC's contribution. The creation of a sound and
efficient banking sector is a long process that cannot be assessed just after project completion.
Second, during the last two years the Mongolian banking sector has achieved mixed results. In
1997, the financial and solvency position of the sector as a whole improved. Unfortunately, the
performance of the sector was much less satisfactory during 1998. The banking sector was hurt
by the difficulties of the enterprise sector following the strong decline in Mongolian commodity
prices. Despite the fact that the loan quality of some banks is still relatively satisfactory, some
large banks have recently had very negative performance. Mainly due to the performance of
SDme major banks, the level of non-performing loans as a percentage of total banking sector
loans increased significantly in 1998. As far as loan quality is concerned, the impact indicator
pointed out in BESAC is the repayment record of new loans extended over the period 1997-98.
Flowever, it has been difficult to disentangle the contribution of new loans to the high growth of
non-performning loans. As of September 1998, the percentage of non-performing loans in the loan
portfolio amounted to 45.9 percent (28.1 percent at the end of 1997). At this time, it is difficult to
sitate that the banking sector is on a sound trajectory. While the sector is less vulnerable today
than it was before BESAC's intervention, and despite banking culture having improved, and there
is more longer term thinking and planning, at least in some commercial banks, the system as a
whole remains fragile. Compared to 1997, during 1998 the general situation of the sector has
deteriorated in terms of loan quality, capital adequacy and profitability. According to the project
performance indicators, the restructuring measures for the banking sector should contribute to
deepen the financial sector. However, it is too early to measure such an impact, and in any case
that indicator is affected by so many factors that is difficult to disentangle the project contribution
to its growth. The ratio between M2 and GDP, that was chosen as an impact indicator for the
Project, has not increased significantly over the last two years. At the end of 1997, this ratio
amounted to 23.1 percent compared to an expected 30 percent for coming years pointed out in the
BESAC's President Report.  Important opportunities to make the sector stronger, like the
"merger" between Golomt Bank and Reconstruction Bank, were not seized. Unfortunately,
political considerations to promote political interests have interfered with economic and sector
policies. The fall of the Government, in the summer of 1998, was brought about by the Golomt
atffair, which if successful, would have privatized a big state-owned bank through the acquisition
by a private bank (Golomt Bank).
34. Bank governance has not made significant progress. Bank privatization is proceeding
extremely slowly. A chance to privatize a troubled big bank was recently missed. The bulk of the
s,ystem is still under state control,14 although at least the best state-owned bank seems to be in the
process of privatization. Progress in bank privatization has been hampered by many factors:
limited political will, long political stalemates, changes of Government over the two years,
limited capacity and availability of local investors, and scarce interest from foreign investors has
a'll contributed to the Mongolian's unsatisfactory outcome in this field. A bank restructuring and
privatization strategy was recently approved by the Government, and submitted to Parliament for
fiurther consideration. The strategy envisages privatization within a relatively short period of
time. However, given the recent political stalemate and the financial difficulties of some major
banks, the privatization schedule remains too ambitious.
35. Despite the fact that the banking sector as a whole has made some progress-positive results
have been achieved on the institutional development front, both in the central bank and in TDB,
and improvements have occurred in the financial legal framework-a lot of work remains to be
14 The partial privatization in some banks was a byproduct of privatization of shareholders; however, these changes
have not improved bank governance significantly so far.



10
done to build a sound and efficient banking sector. All in all, and with the caveats mentioned at
the beginning of thi's section, the achievement of objectives for the banking sector as a whole
must be rated as partial.
36. Project Design. The general assessment of the project design is marginally satisfactory. The
BESAC design benefited from the integrated approach of addressing both the enterprise and
banking sector and the complementary activities under the other Bank-financed operation
BELTAC. On the enterprise front, BESAC comprised elements of realism and discrimination.
Providing special temporary budget support to two important state-owned enterprises, after
approval of a restructuring plan, increased the political viability of the program. However,
BESAC discriminated between the two state-owned enterprises, which received budget support,
and the four private enterprises under the TDB restructuring program, which instead did not get
any financial help. The combined approach for bank and enterprise restructuring was important
and took into account previous Bank's experience. It was based on a very sensible idea
previously and successfully developed in other Bank operations. Risks and constraints for the
project were also adequately identified.
37. The bank restructuring plan implemented prior to credit effectiveness was a quick and
appropriate move which tackled a very urgent problem. At the same time, it was a good idea to
focus BESAC actions on supporting the only viable bank at that time. For instance, the
establishment of a special debt workout unit within TDB and the twinning arrangement
constituted sound measures to strengthen the strongest bank in the system.15 Certainly, those
experiences have improved banking culture, and strengthened the skills needed for credit
allocation and monitoring within TDB.
38. Some questions can be raised on the structure of the operation. Although initially the project
was conceived as a two-tranche operation,l6 the final version provided for a single disbursement.
Consequently, BESAC envisaged actions to be taken prior to Board presentation and credit
effectiveness conditions, but there was no real additional conditionality once the loan was
disbursed. Some form of conditionality would probably have improved the borrower
performance. Moreover, the single-tranche design probably affected the short lifetime of the
project as well. For the achievement of many project objectives, a project lifetime of one year
was too short.17 A longer project life would have provided more inputs for a better evaluation of
the project as well. Moreover, BESAC design probably overestimated the capacity of the
borrower to implement such a wide range of conditions.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
39. Factors Generally Beyond Government Control. The President's Report for the BESAC
program recognized that a satisfactory macroeconomic framework was one of the main
prerequisites to the success of the program. Unfortunately, the macroeconomic conditions were
adversely affected by two severe shocks to the terms of trade. Negative changes in world prices
of Mongolian major export commodities, mainly copper, gold and cashmere,18 had a substantial
negative impact on project results. The strong decline in prices reduced enterprise profitability
15 TDB share of total claims on non banks was 10 percent, in 1996, 18.4 percent in 1997, and 35.6 percent in October
1998. The upward trend is even more strong if just performing loans are considered (from 18 to 48.7 percent over the
December 1996-October 1998 period.
16 See the Project Information Document prepared on September 26, 1996.
17 For instance, this is the case for MARA, and many sector objectives.
18 The structure of Mongolian exports is very concentrated with mineral products-essentially copper-accounting
for about 60 percent of total exports.



11
drastically. This. in turn, affected negatively both the budget (less tax revenues and less
dividends) and the quality of bank assets through the insolvency of some borrowers. Low loan
quality contributed to maintain a very higih level of loan interest rates which also hampered the
growth of a sound private sector.
40. Moreover, Mongolia has received a very small amount of foreign private investment since
its transformation in a market-economy. In particular, no significant foreign bank intervention has
occurred in the Mongolian commercial banks so far, and therefore all the benefits associated with
foreign participation and presence have not been exploited by the Mongolian banking sector. On
the other hand, positive factors affecting project results were related to the strong support that
Mongolia received from the international donor community which provided effective assistance
in many areas of the BESAC program.
41. Factors Generally Subject to Government and Parliament Control. The implementation
of the BESAC program benefited from a good working relationship between the Mongolian
Government and IDA, and strong government commitment, especially during project preparation
and the first part of project implementation. During the last months of project implementation
instead, the program was challenged by political events, which ended up in a long political
stalemate during part of 1998.
42. Coordination with the BELTAC program produced positive results, especially on the
enterprise restructuring front. BELTAC assistance contributed positively to the achievement of
the BESAC objectives, especially in the cases of the two state-owned enterprises involved in the
13ESAC program, and the TDB effort in debt recovery. Good results were also achieved in the
rnacroeconomic stabilization program. Despite some external negative developments, the
(Government succeeded in controlling price movements. Reduction in inflation was much quicker
than expected, and single digit inflation was already achieved in 1998.
43. Parliament's contribution to the Project's success was mixed. The legal covenants regarding
the insolvency law and the banking law were met on schedule. A delay occurred in project
effectiveness because of the time spent in the ratification of the agreement by the Mongolian
Plarliament. An important area where Parliament's actions could have been more supportive of
the reform program is privatization (especially implementation of the bank privatization strategy).
44. Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control. The implementing agency
for BESAC was the MOF. During project preparation, the MOF actively participated in designing
the project. Despite frequent changes in government and public administrations, and despite the
numerous initiatives of international donors that made coordination a difficult task, covenant
compliance can be considered satisfactory. Apart from minor delays, Mongolia fulfilled all loan
covenants.
45. Less satisfactory results were achieved in the areas of project implementation, project
supervision and the operation phase of the project. MOF's commitment waned especially during
the last part of the project life. For instance, some weaknesses were encountered in terms of MOF
commitment to supporting the MARA effort in debt recovery, and to assisting two state-owned
enterprises through extending the needed financial resources announced in their restructuring
plans.
46. BOM, SPC, MOJ, and TDB were also involved in the implementation of BESAC. By and
large, these entities contributed positively to the achievement of the project. However, better
results could be achieved in the areas of privatization, provision of counterparts funds, and in
terms of bank supervision by the BOM. For instance, both bank privatization and privatization of



12
the largest enterprises have been proceeding very slowly. Examples of limited counterpart funds
allocated for BESAC initiatives regard the small size of CIB, and TDB's effort in deploying staff
to serve the debt workout unit. Finally, another negative factor which indirectly damaged project
results was the slow improvement of the bank supervision capability of the BOM, partially due to
the frequent changes of personnel involved.
D. Project Sustainability
47. Due to some important and significant results achieved by the BESAC program, the project
is likely to be sustainable. BESAC supported the effort of the Government to accelerate the
reform program to transform Mongolia into a full market-oriented economy. In this respect, it
seems likely that future actions by authorities will keep moving in the same direction, and
hopefully with a faster pace. Institutional strengthening and improvement of the legal framework
will have a permanent and positive effect on the economy. Prospects for project sustainability are
also affected positively by the high level of economic and technical assistance on which
international donors remain committed. Moreover, project sustainability will benefit from other
projects which are still in progress, e.g. the ADB Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, or the
Private Sector Development Credit (PSDC), which was approved by the Board of Directors of
IDA on May 25, 1999. In particular, the latter should produce positive synergies with BESAC
both on the banking sector and the enterprise sector side.
48. However, a significant level of uncertainty still exists in some areas, especially in the
banking sector. One of the main long-term objectives of BESAC was to place the Mongolian
banking sector on a sustainable path to full eventual recovery and soundness. Despite significant
progress made by the BESAC program, it is difficult at this time to conclude that the banking
sector, as a whole, is on such a sustainable path. Surely the sector is less vulnerable today than it
was two years ago, however the banking sector remains fragile. Bank privatization is behind
schedule, and important opportunities to strengthen the sector, like the privatization of
Reconstruction Bank, were lost.
49. To maintain support for the project objectives and to allow market mechanisms to function,
it will be extremely important to continue fostering the legal and regulatory component of the
reform program. Another major economic challenge is to introduce competition into the banking
sector, reduce the cost of credit, increase its availability, and eventually increase the level of
financial intermediation to support a growing level of investment.
E. World Bank Performance
50. BESAC was the culmination of a lengthy process that started in 1995. All in all, the quality
of identification, preparation, appraisal, and supervision was satisfactory. The skill mix of
mission members was appropriate. Project preparation included collaborative work with the IMF,
ADB and other international donors. It has to be born in mind that these groups carried out their
work during the occurrence of a severe banking crisis, and partially during elections.l9 In
addition, previous work done by the Bank in Mongolia paid little attention to the financial,
banking, and enterprise sectors.20 The diagnostic analysis of the banking and enterprise sectors
carried out during project preparation was satisfactory. A continued dialogue between Bank staff
19 A new Parliament was elected in June 1996.
20 The only available study of the financial sector was a report "Financial Sector Development and Restructuring
Plans for Mongolia", dated January 27, 1995, written within the World Bank Financial Sector Technical Assistance
Project. At present, the first "Financial Sector Review" for Mongolia is under preparation.



13
and the Mongolian authorities, and a high-quality economic and sector work performed within
the Project by Bank staff, provided sound foundations for the design of the project. Important
Enalysis on the banking and enterprise sectors, written by Bank staff and consultants, were
carried out during the preparation and the life of the Project.
51. BESAC and BELTAC were properly designed to complement each other, and the overall
a[ssessment of this combination is satisfactory. Only a minor point can be raised as far as the
interaction between the two projects is concerned. Such a point refers to the objectives BESAC
defined for TDB on the one side, and to the TA TDB received within BELTAC on the other.
While BESAC  required TDB  to implement very demanding objectives, namely viability
assessments and restructuring-liquidation plans for four large defaulters, the TA provided to TDB
tlhrough the twinning arrangement component of BELTAC envisaged a much more limited
assignment for the consultants. In particular, within the terms of the twinning contract, the
consultants were required to provide assistance to TDB Debt Workout Unit in resolving the non-
performing loans to the four enterprises for which BESAC required viability and restructuring
plans. However, based on consultants terms of reference,21 the consultants had to develop
repayment schedules for the non-performing loans. In other words, the assistance was for the
restructuring of the loans, and not for the restructuring of the four enterprises, a much more
demanding and comprehensive task.
52. The final outcome of the project benefited from the low World Bank staff turnover,
especially at the task manager level. There was always the same task manager during the project
life cycle.22 Bank staff and the Mongolian authorities have maintained a cordial and frank
relationship through the entire period covered by the program, developing an open dialogue not
only about the progress of the project objectives, but also about more general issues of the
Mongolian economy.
53. Once the project had become effective, Bank staff monitored Mongolia's progress through
tvvo official supervision missions.23 Supervision missions reported adequately about project
implementation progress and problems. Minor criticisms can be raised about the insufficient
coordination with other donors during the supervision phase, and about the assistance provided to
the implementing agencies in dealing with possible solutions to the flagged problems. The
MARA performance and the CiB status are two cases in point. Since soon after MARA's
establishment, it was clear that the target for MARA's debt collection rate was too ambitious. As
time passed, it was also clear that MARA was facing growing legal, institutional and economic
difficulties, but no assistance was provided during the last period of the project.24 A similar
observation applies to the CIB. Despite the fact that the first supervision mission flagged the
inadequacy of the CIB, the Bank was not fully able to assist the BOM in improving the
operations of the CIB. Fortunately, this issue has been resumed within the Private Sector
Development Credit (PSDC) that was approved by the Board of Directors of IDA on May 25,
1999; however, in this area BESAC might have achieved better results with a more rapid
response in providing assistance to the borrower.
21 The terms of reference for the foreign twin are attached to the BELTAC President Report (see Annex 5, Debt
Workout section).
22 With the only exception of the final supervision mission that was led by a new task manager.
23 The first supervision mission took place in February 1998, and the second one in November 1998 in parallel with
the ICR preparation mission.
24 For instance, initially MARA staff had incentives in collecting bad loans because salaries were linked to debt
recovery results. During 1998. most of these incentives were cut off.



14
54. Selection of Legal Covenants. The discrepancy between the covenants envisaged in the
Development Credit Agreement on the one hand, and the conditions included in the Letter of
Development Policy and in the Matrix of Key Policy Actions on the other was significant. The
former envisaged only a small subset of the commitments and actions included in the latter.
Although there were no major problems with compliance with BESAC legal covenants by the
Mongolian side, and despite the fact that, with some minor exceptions, criteria for judging the
achievement of objectives were satisfactory,25 some observations can be made on the definition
of the most appropriate conditions in order to achieve project final objectives. In this respect, the
selection of some conditions included in the Letter of Development Policy and in the Legal
Documents was less satisfactory. Those documents envisaged a wide mix of measures and
actions involving various Mongolian institutions. Some conditions were not fully translated in
operational and quantified targets, e.g. quantitative targets for privatized enterprises were
missing; others were not complete, e.g. the request of a draft of the insolvency law by IDA
without considering implementing rules. In some minor cases, conditions were also not directly
relevant for the Project's final objectives. For instance, what was the economic rationale for
requesting CIB to become an independent organization by the end of 1998? Given the Mongolian
situation and the shortage of human resources and information within the banking sector, a CIB
working as a part of the central bank could have more advantages than disadvantages.
F. Borrower Performance
55. The Borrower performed satisfactorily during project preparation. Initially, the Government
was highly committed to the Project, and the Mongolian authorities provided extensive and useful
cooperation. By and large, and despite the bad macroeconomic conditions and various
constraints, including limited human resources, the authorities can take credit for a number of
significant and positive actions. The authorities managed to stabilize the macroeconomic
situation. The government was also effective in carrying out significant legislative and
institutional preparation prior to project effectiveness. The authorities worked actively on the
insolvency law, and the banking law. The Government implemented five, out of the six, steps
envisaged by the bank restructuring strategy.26
56. Areas where the Borrower's performance could have been more effective include:
implementation, adequacy of monitoring, and evaluation of the Project. On the implementation
side, privatization and loan recovery constitute two examples where the Borrower's performance
was weak. Bank and enterprise privatization has been much slower than planned. The
Government was also expected to provide full support to assist the MARA's effort in debt
collection. Govemment support stronger than that given could have helped MARA in being more
effective. Unfortunately, many legal and administrative obstacles are still hampering MARA's
effort in debt collection. Its legal status is weak, its budget has been halved for 1999, incentives
for staff has been drastically reduced. Auctioning and price determination mechanisms for
physical assets remain cumbersome. No secondary market for non-performing loans has been
created so far.
57. Monitoring and evaluation of the Project by the Borrower was deficient. Most of the people
involved in the project preparation from the Borrower's side were not involved in project
25 Some minor remarks can be made regarding the definition and timing of project performance indicators; for
instance, some outcome indicators referred to conditions which had to be met prtor to credit effectiveness; an impact
indicator was specified in terms of M2/GDP ratio increase, but within a too short time framework (end of 1998).
26 The extemal audits of three commercial banks based on international accounting standards was the sixth step
envisaged in the BESAC President Report, and was not completed by the end of the Project.



15
iimplementation. The Borrower's commitment waned during the second part of 1998. Even the
lparticipation by the Borrower during the two supervision missions was not completely
satisfactory, and similar comments apply to the Borrower's responsibility during the first stage of
the ICR preparation. Although performance indicators were pointed out in the Presidential
Report, no operational plan was prepared either at the negotiations phase or later during the life
of the Project.
G. Assessment of Outcome
58. Based on the analysis conducted in the field, and on the examination of all relevant
documents, BESAC's outcome as a whole can be rated as satisfactory. BESAC achieved most of
its major objectives with only a few exceptions. Many of the most important actions were taken
prior to loan effectiveness, and compliance with loan covenants is assessed as satisfactory. Good
results were achieved in solving the 1996 banking crisis. The cnablinig environment for the
private sector made good progress by reducing inflation significantly, privatizing a large number
of small and medium enterprises, imposing hard budget constrailnts, and also improving the legal
components envisaged by the project. Under BESAC. the restructuring of some big enterprises
wvas initiated, and a significant contribution to institution-building must be considered as positive.
Overall, the Bank's work in the context of BESAC helped Mongolia to formulate and implement
an important reform agenda in the banking and enterprise sectors.
59. Sustainability of the objectives is considered likely, although some significant uncertainties
are still pending, especially as far as the situation of the banking sector is concerned. Moreover,
some other issues still require actions by the Mongolian authorities: private sector activity is still
largely confined to small business, and the biggest enterprises are still in public hands; bank
restructuring and privatization need to go ahead; further progress on the legal and regulatory
front is required, the amount of non-performing loans for the system as a whole and the level of
loan interest rates should be reduced; MARA needs stronger support from the Government to
continue in its effort of debt recovery, and the fiscal deficit has not been brought down to the
target levels.
H. Future Operations
60. To ensure the sustainable attainment of the program's developmental objectives, it is
important for the Government to continue to build upon the actions taken and achievements made
under the BESAC program. For its part, the World Bank will continue to work closely with the
Mongolian Government to strengthen both the banking and enterprise sectors.  The recent
establishment of the Bank's Resident Mission in Ulaanbaatar, will greatly facilitate this
interaction, especially in the form of regular policy dialogue with govemmental officials and
donor coordination.
61. In terms of specific projects to build directly upon the foundation created by BESAC (and
13ELTAC), the Private Sector Development Credit (PSDC) was approved by the Board of
I)irectors of IDA on May 25, 1999. This US$12 million investment project includes a credit line
and technical assistance to support the Borrower's efforts to promote private sector development,
and strengthen the institutional capacity of the banking sector. In particular, the PSDC will: (a)
promote private sector development by increasing the availability of commercial bank term loans
to private enterprises; (b) increase the institutional capacity of participating banks by
strengthening their financial intermediation function and resource allocation capabilities; and (c)



16
increase the institutional capacity of the Bank of Mongolia (BOM) by improving its bank
supervision function.
62. The planned strategy and other actions for the operational phase of the Project have been
discussed with the Borrower (and reflected in their report-see ANNEX B) and include the
following key actions:
*  To prevent a crowding out of the private sector or a resurgence of inflationary pressures, net
credit to the Government will be contained to 1 percent of GDP in 1999, and zero in 2000-
2001, subject to the availability of adequate concessional external loans.
*  Privatization remains the principal means to reduce the size of the state sector and achieve
higher sustainable economic growth. Under the Government's strategy, a comprehensive list
covering almost all state-owned enterprises and immovable assets was announced for
privatization by 2000. Privatization procedures were simplified and sales techniques were
broadened. The privatization program is supported by technical assistance from USAID.
*  The Government is also drafting an Enterprise Restructuring Program  supported by
UNDP/Netherlands for the 1998-2001 period. The development objective of this project is to
help shorten the length and cost of the transition to a market economy by helping to
restructure 10 newly privatized large key enterprises, and thereby develop models and
methodologies for such restructuring in Mongolia.
*  The Government and BOM  have formulated a medium-term banking and enterprise reform
program for the period 1997-2000 in close collaboration with the IMF, the ADB, and the
World Bank. A comprehensive strategy for banking reform has been adopted in collaboration
with the IMF, the ADB. and the USAID. The strategy addresses two major issues currently
confronting the banking system: the insolvency of three major commercial banks, and the
deep rooted systemic problems which are hindering effective financial intermediation. The
reforms to correct these problems will be guided by four principles: (1) the need for a
substantial reduction in the state ownership of commercial banks through privatization; (2)
the need to strictly contain the use of public funds for banking sector restructuring; (3) the
need to enhance the enforcement of prudential norms by the BOM; and (4) the need to
strengthen the legal and supervisory framework to promote good corporate governance and
market discipline in the banking system.
*  To resolve the insolvency of three major commercial banks, the BOM  and GOM  are
implementing  a comprehensive, time-bound  action  plan.27   Implementation  of the
restructuring plan will be overseen by a High Level Steering Committee, with operational
support from a technical Restructuring Working Group. A wide range of actions will be taken
in 1999, and beyond, to ensure that the bank restructuring proceeds in a transparent and
sound manner and that the systemic banking problems are addressed in line with the general
principles mentioned above. Parliamentary approval of a bank privatization strategy will be
secured to make the privatization process transparent and irreversible, and the sale of the
Trade and Development Bank will be completed by December 1999.
* In order to limit financial costs borne by the public sector, Government funds for
recapitalization will be provided only in the event of privatization, up to an amount which
27 In the first phase. conservators and full-time bank restructuring advisors will be appointed to halt a further
deterioration in the financial position of the three insolvent banks. In the second phase, plans for operational
restructuring will be implemented by the advisors. including closures of branches, reductions in overhead and current
expenditures, and restriction of the expansion in liabilities and loan portfolios of the banks. In the last phase (by end-
1999), decisions will be taken to deal with the three banks through recapitalization, privatization, and liquidation.



17
will bring the bank's net worth to zero. Under conservatorship, new lending by insolvent
banks will be terminated; collateralized liquidity support by the BOM will be provided only
to contain system risk in the interbank payment system; and the hierarchy of claims in the
Banking Law, which gives highest priority to household deposits, will be strictly enforced.
* With regard to bank supervision, the BOM will continue to strengthen prudential and
regulatory norms, review bank licenses and take action in cases where banks fail to meet the
-license and "fit and proper" criteria, and initiate prompt supervisory and legal action against
banks violating prudential regulations.
I. Key Lessons Learned
63. The experience with the BESAC program confirms some lessons that have been
learned in many previous Bank operations, but also suggests some other lessons that have
been learned as particularly relevant for transition economies:
*  Government Commitment and Credit  Structure:  Government commitment is
essential to project success. Initially the strong commitment of the Government was
critical in achieving the Project's objectives. However, when the Government's attention
phased itself out, implementation performance suffered. The lesson here is that
conditionality should be used as much as possible to induce the Government to maintain
its effort and its commitment to the Project's success. Single-tranche operations should
be kept to the lowest level, especially in transition economies where governments, public
administrations and reform programs are in a strong state of flux.
*  Coordination and Division of Labor Among International Donors: Coordination
among donors is crucial when a number of international agencies are involved in the
same sector, as it was the case in the Mongolian banking sector. BESAC and the
Mongolian experience highlighted the need for the Bank to clarify its role in a crisis
situation. In some sense, the small banking crisis-relative to other financial crises in the
world-anticipated the need to develop a well-defined division of labor among
international organizations when a crisis occurs. However, if discussions occur during a
banking crisis, priority should be given to those actions needed to tackle the emergency
situation. In other words, discussing the division of labor between donors should not
delay the implementation of the emergency action plan.
*  Project Monitoring and Supervision:  Monitoring and supervision is important
especially in the early phase of reforms when slippage may occur. However, supervision
activity can lose most of its relevance if follow-up actions are not possible or not
contemplated within the project design. Institutional capacity for project monitoring by
the borrower is also crucial. BESAC might have benefited from a better commitment and
institutional capacity to monitor project implementation. Such capacity might also have
had the effect of mitigating some implementation problems and, in the end, improving
project effectiveness.
*  New institutions: BESAC program envisaged the establishment of two new institutions:
MARA and the CIB. The assessment of their operations was not very satisfactory:
MARA's impetus and success in recovering debt waned gradually, and CIB's role in
assisting commercial banks in managing credit risk has never been developed
significantly. The lesson here is that developing new institutions is a long process, which
needs to be evaluated in the right perspective, given the situation and the constraints of
the country.



18
* Focus on Implementation and Enforcement rather than Approval of a New Law:
Implementation and enforcement of laws are a much more difficult and complex process than
approval of a new law, especially in transition economies. Therefore, project objectives
should give priority to measures relevant to law implementation and enforcement. Of course,
in those cases where the relevant legislation is missing, the passage of legislation might be
included among the Board presentation conditions. BESAC envisaged the submission of a
draft insolvency law to Parliament prior to credit effectiveness, but no further action was
contemplated to implement the law. Similarly. in the case of the CIB, BESAC focused its
emphasis on the creation of a new institution rather than on its operational functioning and
achievements.
*  Legal Infrastructures, Banking Reforms, and Credit Structure:  Experience with
banking sector lending in transition economies has demonstrated that reform of the banking
sector is a very slow process that requires investment and-changes in institutions, legal
infrastructures, and human capital. Consequently, more attention could have been paid to the
structure of the credit, in the sense that a two-tranche operation would have allowed the Bank
to include and monitor certain critical objectives that normally take more time to be achieved.
In particular, within banking sector reforms in transition economies greater priority should be
given to the legal, regulatory and institutional changes needed to facilitate sound credit
transactions and debt collection and restructuring. Although BESAC has been a good attempt
to work in this direction, especially through its twinning with BELTAC and its focus on
institutional development, even more emphasis should be placed on the above-mentioned
issues in order to make a successful financial reform more likely.
* The experience under BESAC has also shown that the Bank should develop an appropriate
strategy for those operations whose final objectives can be fully achieved only years after
disbursement is completed. This is not an easy task, but it certainly constitutes a relevant
issue especially for operations regarding financial sector reforms in transition economies
where the needed time to get results is almost, by definition, a matter of years. A possible
answer is to carry out follow-up projects that continue or expand activities covered under the
previous project. Moreover, it is essential for the Bank to develop an appropriate strategy for
the sector as a whole, and within such a strategy sequential projects should be considered.
* Bad and Good Bank's Role in Banking Reforms: As almost everywhere, there are
relatively well-managed banks and bad banks in the Mongolian banking sector. BESAC
helped close down two bad banks and tried to strengthen the best bank of the sector. The
lesson here is that when banking reforms are used in transition economies, the authorities
should endeavor to strengthen and broaden the best commercial banks instead of fixing and
reorganizing the worst ones. BESAC has shown that when investments and resources were
directed toward good institutions that good results emerge. TDB is on track to become a well-
managed financial institution and the central pillar of the Mongolian financial sector. At the
same time, weaker banks should be restricted in their operations. These limitations should be
strictly enforced by the central bank. Unfortunately, this was only partially the case in
Mongolia, and the weakest banks have caused further problems during their existence. This
aspect gives rise to a question regarding central bank independence in transition economies.
Central bank independence should focus not only on independence in deciding monetary
policy and governmental finance, but also in applying and enforcing financial regulation
towards state-owned commercial banks.
* Fiscal Consequences of Banking Reform: To the extent possible, more attention should be
paid to the fiscal consequences of the banking sector reforms in order to assess short-term
and long-term costs. This requires the construction of credible scenario regarding the future



19
viability of the newly-established financial institutions. The analysis of BESAC's effort in
estimating the fiscal cost of the Mongolian bank restructuring shows that some consequences
of the bank restructuring process were not fully included in the expected fiscal costs. For
instance, the running costs of MARA, and the potential costs of future crises of the two
newly-established banks were not included in the calculation.
e  Bank Privatization: BESAC's experience confirms that bank privatization in transition
economies is a very complex and prolonged process. Bank privatization cannot be seen in
isolation from the capacity of monetary authorities to supervise commercial banks, and in
isolation from the capacity and availability of local and foreign investors to absorb new
private banks. The lesson here is that bank privatization must be placed in proper perspective
when it is part of credit conditions.
* Institution-Building and Technical Assistance: Wheni institution building is crucial for a
project's objectives, as it is in transition economies, structuiral adjustinent operations that
provide a broad agenda for reforms in particular sectors should be accompanied and
supported by parallel, well-desigined and timely technical assistance projects. In preparing a
technical assistance project, it is crucial that the borrower be actively involved in determining
the technical assistance needs. BESAC  and BELTAC  constituted a good attempt at
implementing this simple principle.






21
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial       Partial         Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies              X
Sector Policies                                      X
Financial Objectives                                 X
Institutional development                            X
Physical objectives                                                                    X
Poverty reduction                                                                      X
Gender issues                                                                          x
Other social objectives                                                                x
Environmental objectives                                                               X
Public sector management                                                               x
Private sector development                           X
B. Project Sustainability         Likely                Unlikely              Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance      Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory              Deficient
Identification                                             x
Preparation assistance                                     X
Appraisal                                                  x
Supervision                                                X
D. Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                         X
Implementation                                                      X
Covenant compliance                                                  x
Operation (if applicable)                    N/A                   N/A               N/A
E. Assessment of Outcome       Highly          Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory       Highly
Satisfactory                                      Unsatisfactory
x



22
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title             Purpose                                          Approval  Status
Preceding operations
1. BELTAC (CR. 2948)  To facilitate implementation of the proposed BESAC   1997    Active
Project. in particular. the debt workout and loan
recovery elements of  the Government's reform
program. To finance advisory support, training. and
where appropriate, materials and equipment for: (a)
Trade and Development Bank. a newly-established
Debt Workiout Unit (DWU) in T&D Bank-; (b) the
State Property Committee (SPC): (c) participating
enterprises: and  (d)  legal support institutions,
including. MOJ, the judiciary  and  the agency
responsible for property registration.  The longer-
term objective is to promote institutional and skills
developmenit. so that thie reforms implemented under
BESAC can be sustainied.
Following operations
1. Private Sector      T-he main objectives of the PSDC are to support the  1999   Active
Development Credit   Borrower's  efforts  to  promote  private  sector
(PSDC)               development and to strengthen  the institutional
(MN-PE-49789)        capacity of the banking sector. PSDC, in part, is a
follow-up to IDA's BESAC and BELTAC Projects.
Table 3. Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle   Date Planned                Date Actual
Identification           June. 1995                  June 26, 1995
Appraisal                October, 1996               February 02, 1997
Negotiations             November, 1996              February 25. 1997
Board Presentation       December. 1996              May 01, 1997
Signing                  July 31, 1997               July 31. 1997
Effectiveness            November 26, 1997           November 26, 1997
Project Completion       June 26, 1997               June 26, 1997
Loan Closing             December 3 1, 1998          December 31, 1998
Table 4. Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual
(USS Million)
FY98
Appraisal estimate                         10.0
Actual                                     9.7
Actual as % of estimate                   97%
Date of final disbursement           January 31, 1998



23
Table 5a. Key Indicators for Project Implementation - Banking Sector Reform
Policy Commitments                        Institutional    Implementation
Cornditions of Effectiveness * and  Measures to be taken by  Responsibility        Record
other measures taken by credit    project completion date
effectiveness date
PlacePeople's Bank and Insurance                                 BOM                Done
Bank under receivership
Establish and license the new                                    BOM                Done
Saviings Bank and the new
Reconstruction Bank
Subrnit 1997 budget to Parliament                                MOF                Done
withi Tgl6 bl. Earmarked to finance
banic restructuring
* Establish MARA with power and                                  MOF                Done
responsibility acceptable to IDA
Prepare privatization plans.  BOM. SPC    A bank privatization
acceptable to IDA. to                      strategy was
privatize all state-owned                  approved by the
banks                                      Government in the
second part of 1998.
but some doubts
remain about the
feasibility of the
plan.
Complete a review of the     BOM. MOJ             Done
banking law
Issue a BOM regulation requiring                                 BOM                Done
banks to report their ten largest
loans outstanding
* Establish a Credit Information                                 BOM                Done
Bureau (CIB)
Move the CIB to an              BOM        As of Dec. 1998, CIB
organization independent of                is still part of BOM.
BOM
Establish DWU in TDB with its                                    TDB         Done (DWU has
operations supported by 5 TDB staff                                          been operating with 3
(included a director-level manager)                                          TDB staff)
Complete viability              TDB        Met with some delay
assessments for four selected
enterprises
Complete implementation of      -TDB       Met with some delay
restructuring/liquidation
plans of selected enterprises



24
Table 5b. Key Indicators for Project Implementation -Enterprise Sector Reform
Policy Commitments                     Institutional  Implementation
Measures taken by credit    Measures to be taken by    Responsibility      Record
effectiveness date          project completion date
Eliminate Government        Linit Governmtenit subsidies    MOF             Done
subsidies to enterprises starting to urban transport enterprises
from the 1997 bidget. withi the
exception for urban transport
enterprises
Stop all government loans   Lend to enterprises in          MOF             Done
starting from the 1997 budget.  electricity and heating. at
except to enterprises in    CIB bill interest rate
electricity and heating
Reduce the level of arrears in   Reduce the level of arrears  MOF           Done
enterprises loan payment to the in enterprises loan payment
budget                      to the budget to 10% of
loans outstanding in 1998
Present a draft insolvency law                              MOJ             Done
to IDA
Present draft insolvency law   MOJ             Done
to Parliament
Complete viability           SPC. MOF          Done
assessment for Darkhan
Minimetal and Bagahangai
Meat plants
Approve and complete         SPC, MOF   Met with some
implementation and                        delay
restructuring/l iquidation
plans for Darkhan Minimetal
and Bagahangai Meat plants
Prepare privatization          SPC           On-going
program for all state-owned
enterprises



25
Table 6-a Key Indicators for Project Operation-Banking Reform'
INPUT                  OUTPUT                  OUTCOME                   IMPACT
Commercial Bank          Two large insolvent      Savings Bank;            Financial deepening as
Restructuring            banks closed/liquidated;   Reconstruction Bank;   measured by increase in
Two other large          and Mongolia Asset       M2/GDP, from 23% in
troubled banks put       Recovery Agency          1996 to 30% by end
under strict restructuring  established.          1998.
contracts.
Stopping Loans to        Reporting mechanism      Lending to defaulters    Improved asset quality
Defaulters              established for monthly   ceases, resulting in     of individual banks,
monitoring of            reduction in total non-    measured through
commercial bank          performing loans as a    repayment record of
lending.                 percentage of total loans  new loans given since
from 51 % in 1996 to     1997 by end 1998.
30% by end 1997.
Recovery of Non-         Loan                     Recovery of 30% of       Establishment of similar
performing Loans.        repayment/workout for   outstanding loans to      workout exercises in
E_stablishment of Debt    four selected private   T&D Bank of the four    other commercial banks
'Workout Unit in T&D     enterprises.             selected enterprises by    by end 1999.
B3ank. Provision of                               end 1998.
c onsultant Services.
(Financing: BELTAC)
I The matrix of performance indicators reflects the synergy between BESAC and BELTAC particularly with regard
to enterprise reform. Input. process and output indicators for banking reform primarily reflect TA provided by
other institutions (ADB. IMF). The output and outcome indicators will be evaluated soon after the program ends,
while the impact indicators will be evaluated two to three years thereafter.



26
Table 6-b Key Indicators for Project Operation-Enterprise Reform'
INPUT                   OUTPUT                  OUTCOME                     IMPACT
Public Enterprise        Financial restructuring    Implementation           Darkhan Minimetal and
Restructuring and Debt   or liquidation and debt    schedule for             Bagahangai Meat Plants
Recovery                 service plans prepared    restructuring/liquidation   restructured/liquidated
Establishment of SPC-    for two selected public    developed for the two    by end 1998.
led public enterprise    enterprises.              selected enterprises by
restructuring exercise.                            end 1997.                 SPC-led
Provision of consultant                                                      restructuring/insolvency
services (financing                                Formal insolvency         model extended to other
BELTAC).                                           procedures established.   public enterprises.
Hardening Public         Elimination of all        Transparency of public    Reduction of budget
Enterprise Budget        subsidies to public       expenditures and more    deficit/GDP ratio from
Constraints.             enterprises and entities,   effective targeting of  9% in 1996 to 7.3% in
Passage of 1997 Budget.  except urban transport.    budgetary expenditures.   1999.
Stop all Government      Electricity and heating   Electricity and heating
loans except to public   enterprises receive loans  enterprises receive loans
enterprises in electricity  ait 2 points below central  at central bank bills rate
and heating.             bank bills rate in 1997.   in 1998. and at market
rates in 1999.
I The matrix of performance indicators reflects the synergy between 131SAC and 13FIV1'AC particularly with regard
to enterprise reform. Input. process and output indicators for banking reform primarily reflect 'I'A provided by
other institutions (ADB. IMF). 'I'he output and outcome indicators will he evaluated soon after the program ends,
while the impact indicators s ill be evaluated two to three years thereaf'ter.



27
Table 7. Studies Included in Project
Study                  Purpose as defined at           Status        Impact of Study
___________________  appraisal/redefined
I. Viability           Restructure or liquidate plants    Complete   Restructuring of two
assessments for     based on viability assessments                plants in progress;
Darkhan                                                           contingent liability of
Minimetal and                                                     government resolved.
Bagahangai Meat
Plants
2. Legal diagnostic    Review of Mongolian legal       Complete    Strengthened court
Study               system to identifying areas that              and judicial systems
require strengthening                         through ongoing
training of judges and
lawyers. Legislation
changed
3. Financial Sector    Review of overall banking       Complete    Bank training for
Review              system, specific focus on                     commercial banks
developing credit collection in               launched. New debt
select commercial banks                       workout unit and
credit committee
_____________________  ________________________________             established.
4. Mongolia Asset      Disposal of non performing      Complete      Bank training for
Recovery Agency   assets                                          commercial banks
(MARA)                                                            launched, debt
workout unit and
credit committee
established.



28
Table 8a. Project Costs
(USS million)
Appraisal estimate               Actual/latest estimate
Item                   Local   Foreign     Total           Local  Foreign       Total
IDA                                       0       10.0      10.0             0        9.7       9.7
Total                                      0      10.0      10.0             0        9.7       9.7
Table 8b. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate               Actual/latest estimate
Item                   Local   Foreign     Total           Local  Foreign       Total
IDA                      0       10.0      10.0             0        9.7       9.7
Total                     0       10.0      10.0            0        9.7        9.7
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits
(Not Applicable)



29
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant        Original          Status        Description of
Type     Fulfillment Date                      Covenant
2947 MOG  Article III    9           Periodic        Complied   Particular covenants
with     related to progress,
monitoring, review,
reporting, and
accounting
2947 MOG  Article V      12     Credit effectiveness   Done      BOM shall have
date (November                 established a credit
1997)                     information bureau
2947 MOG  Article V      12     Credit effectiveness   Done      The borrower shall have
date (November                 established an agency
1997)                     with powers and
responsibilities
acceptable to IDA for
the recovery of non-
performing loans
2947 MOG  Article V      12     Credit effectiveness   Done      The borrower shall have
date (November                 presented to IDA for
1997)                     review revised
legislation governing
insolvency
2947 MOG  Article V      12          Periodic        Complied   IDA shall be satisfied
with     with the Borrower's
maintenance of a sound
macroeconomic
framework
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual Statement
(OD or OP/BP)



30
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(in staff weeks)
Stage of Project    1995       1996         1997         1998         1999       Total
Cycle
Preparation to     0.9         43.3         26.5                                  70.7
Appraisal
Appraisal                                   0.6                                   0.6
Negotiation                                  3.4                                   3.4
Supervision                                 0.5           0.5        11.5 a/      12.5
Completion                                                           6.0 a/        6.0
Total               0.9        43.3         31.0          0.5        17.5 a/      93.2
a/ Estimated
Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of    Month/  Number  Days   Specialized          Performance ratings         Types of
Project      Year       of       in    staff skills                                Problems
Persons   Field  representeda  Implemen-  Development
tation     Objectives
Status
Pre-            02/95       2        7       EC, FN
Identification
Identification    08/95     4       12       EC. FN
Preparation     02/96       5       14       EC. FN
Preparation     05/96      12       19       EC. FN
Pre-Appraisal   09/96       8       11       EC. FN
Supervision     02/98       2       14        FN             S             S        Delays in
Credit
Effectiveness,
Legal
Settlements
a/ EC = Economist, FN  Financial Specialist
b/ HS = Highly Satisfactory: S = Satisfactory, U = Unsatisfactory, HU = Highly unsatisfactory,
NR. = Not Rated/Not Applicable



31                                 ANNEX A
ANNEX A: AIDE MEMOIRE-SUPERVISION AND ICR PREPARATION MISSION
November 25, 1998
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia
1. An International Development Association (IDA) mission, comprising Mr. Luca Papi
(Consultant), and Mr. Gambosuren Gansuhk (Consultant), visited Ulaanbaatar from November
16 to November 25 to review the status of the Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
(BESAC). The mission held discussions with officials of the Ministry of Finance (MOF),
Ministry of Justice (MOJ). Mongolian Asset Realization Agency (MARA), State Property
Committee (SPC), Bank of Mongolia (BOM), Trade and Development Bank (TDB), and the
representatives of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Darkhan Minimetal Plant (DMP),
Bagahangai Meat Plant (BMP), and Norwegian Banking Resources (NBR).
2. The mission would like to express its appreciation for the cooperation extended by the
13ESAC counterpart working group. as well as representatives from the other institutions
involved in the project, for fruitful discussions on the status of BESAC. Based on the visits made
and discussions held, this Aide Memoire summarizes the main findings and conclusions reached
by the mission. The contents of this Aide Memoire is subject to change, pending review by the
rnanagement of the World Bank.
3'. The BESAC project and its objectives
3. The Bank and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (BESAC) of US$10 million was a single-
tranche adjustment operation. The credit was approved by the- Bank Board on May 1, 1997,
signed on July 31, 1997, but became effective on November 26, 1997, due to delays in the
ratification in the Mongolian Parliament. BESAC aimed to restore the functional efficiency and
to support the institutional development of the banking sector, and to improve the economic
performance of the enterprise sector.
4. Banking sector project objectives. On the banking sector front, BESAC pursued the
following key objectives: (i) supporting the implementation of the bank restructuring strategy; (ii)
stepping up commercial bank loan recovery effort; and (iii) assisting the Government in the
adjustment process of the banking sector needed to serve a new market-oriented economy.
5., Within the support of the overall bank restructuring strategy up-front measures were
implemented prior to Board presentation. These measures included the liquidation of two large
insolvent banks (People's Bank and Insurance Bank), the establishment of two new commercial
banks (Savings Bank and Reconstruction Bank), and the creation of the Mongolian Asset
Realization Agency. The second core component of the BESAC intervention in the Mongolian
banking sector was related to the development of a debt workout capacity, and to the
intensification of the loan recovery effort by the government and commercial banks. This was a
two-pronged strategy. On the one hand, the recovery of the stock of non-performing loans was
cdelegated to MARA and to a special debt workout unit within TDB; on the other hand, measures
to deal with the flow problem of new loans extended to potential defaulting borrowers were
adopted as well. The third component comprised a mix of measures that were aimed to
rnodernize and make more effective the role of the banking sector in the new market economy. In



32                                     ANNEX A
this context, BESAC envisaged a review of the banking law. Besides, bank privatization was
considered as part of the Government's medium-term reform program of the banking sector.
6. Enterprise sector project objectives. BESAC supported the implementation of enterprise
reform that complemented the banking sector strategy. The Project's key objectives for the
enterprise sector were the following: (i) imposing hard budget constraints on public enterprises;
(ii) restructuring or liquidating some selected enterprises that were not economically viable; and
(iii) contributing to the private sector development by accelerating enterprise privatization and
strengthening the economic legal framework.
7. The imposition of hard budget constraints was a key element to avoid that defaulting
enterprises, cut off from bank credit, could ttir to the budget as an alternative source of finance.
In doing so the imposition of hard budget constraints was expected to complement the banking
sector strategy, and to stop the drain on public resources that these enterprises represented. The
enterprise restructuring coiiponent aimed also to restructure or liquidate six selected enterprises
chosen on the basis of their relatively large amount of non-performing loans. The objective was
to attain either a viable reorganization or a liquidation of the six entities, based on the results of
preliminary viability assessments.  The private sector development component envisaged a
widespread and rapid privatization program and a strengthening of the economic legal
framework. The progress on the legal front envisaged the preparation of a draft insolvency law.
For specific actions and monitoring indicators related to the banking and enterprise sector
programs see Annex 1.
Project Implementation Status
1I. Recent macroeconomic developments
8. In 1997, the macroeconomic program undertaken by the Mongolian government achieved
good results. IMF ESAF program was on track, and the overall assessment of the macroeconomic
situation provided by the previous BESAC supervision mission (February 1998) was highly
satisfactory.
9. Conditions changed significantly during the first ten months of 1998. Mongolia's economy
has been facing troubles coming from a decline of prices of Mongolia's major export
commodities, and from an unstable political situation, that caused a significant deterioration of
the fiscal and external accounts. Such a deterioration forced the IMF ESAF program out of track
during the first semester of 1998; consequently, the IMF decided to cancel the midterm review in
June 1998. Since June, the situation has continued to deteriorate. The budget deficit is expected
to amount to 11.4 percent of GDP28 (8.6 percent in 1997). In October 1998, the trade deficit
amounted to its record level of US$128.4 (about 12 percent of GDP).
10. Monetary policy has been relatively tight throughout 1998,29 and the inflation rate has
continued to decline. In October, inflation achieved the remarkable annual changes of 5.3
percent3O (2.7 from the beginning of 1998); however, bank interest rates on loans still remain
extremely high. The tugrik depreciated respect to the US$ by 7.1 percent in the last 12 months
28 The Government is projecting a budget deficit/GDP ratio equal to 10 percent for 1999. In order to achieve
transparency in public expenditure and more effective targeting of budgetary expenditures, MOF has prepared a draft
law "Public Administration Management and Finance" and submitted it to the Parliament in September 1998.
29 M2 declined by 4.4 percent since the beginning of the year.
30 Inflation rate was 17.5 percent in 1997.



33                                        ANNEX A
('5.7 from the beginning of the year). GDP growth is expected to be 3.5 percent in 1998 (4 percent
in 1997).
III. Banking Reform
11. Commercial Bank Restructuring BESAC was intended to place the Mongolian banking
sector on a sustainable path to full eventual recovery and sound-functioniing. As already stated
above, important bank restructuring measures were implemented prior to Board presentation. The
year 1997 was a positive year for the banking sector, and the financial and solvency position of
the sector as a whole improved.
12. Unfortutiately, the performance of the sector has been much less satisfactory during 1998.
The health of the banking sector as a whole has been hurt by the difficulties of the enterprise
sector following the strong decline in Mongolian comimiodity prices. At this time, it is difficult to
state that the bankling sector is on a sound trajectory. While the sector is probably less vulnerable
today thanl it was before BESAC intervenitioni, the system remains fragile. Important opportunity
to make the sector stronger, like the merger between Golomt Bank and Reconstruction Bank,
have riot been seized. Unfortunately, political considerations to promote political interests have
interfered with economic and sector policies. Some major banks are facing very worrying
situations and have been put under strict BOM  control. Compared to the last year, the general
situation of the sector has significanltly deteriorated in terms of loan quality, capital adequacy and
profitability.31
13. A bank restructuring and privatization strategy was recently approved by the Government,
and submitted to the Parliament for further consideration. The strategy envisages privatization
witilin a relatively short period of time. A  working group will be set up to supervise the
restructuring and privatization process carried out by the State Property Department. However,
the missioni believes that, given the political stalemate and recent financial difficulties of some
major baniks, the schedule of the bank privatization strategy might be too ambitious.
14. Debt workLiout MARA. MARA was established in December 1996. Since then Tg3O.8 billion
of badl loans have been transferred to MARA from  People's Bank, Insurance Bank, and more
recently from  Central Asia Bantk. MARA  has a staff of 108 people. MARA  completed the
classif'ication of all non-performing loans in its portfolio. The stated goal of its recovery effort
was very high, and equal to 90 percent of the assets transferred during its three year lifetime.
15. MARA was quite successful in recovery of bad loans in 1997. During that year, MARA
recovered Tg5.4 billion, of which about 50 percent in cash and the rest in physical assets.
However, the performance in recent months has been less satisfactory. During 1998 the amount
of debt recovered has declined to Tgl.4 billion, of which Tg880 million in cash.
16. MARA is facing growing legal, administrative, and financial difficulties. However, despite
many obstacles, MARA management is still optimistic about MARA debt recovery capacity for
1999. According to MARA, a significant percentage of outstanding bad loans - almost 50 percent
-could be recovered during 1999. The mission believes that given the past performance and the
growing difficulties MARA is facing, such an estimate seems to be too optimistic.
31 According to the project performance indicators the restructuring measures for the banking sector should contribute
to deepen the financial sector. However, it is too early to measure such an impact, and in any case, that indicator is
affected by so many factors that is difficult to disentangle the project contribution to its growth. The ratio between M2
and GDP. that was chosen as an impact indicator for the project, has not increased significantly over the last two years.
At the end of 1997. this ratio amounted to 23.1 percent compared to an expected 30 percent for coming years pointed
out in the BESAC President Report.



34                                     ANNEX A
17. Based on the BESAC project, the government was supposed to provide full support to assist
the MARA effort in debt collection. A Government support stronger than the present one could
help MARA in being more effective in its actions. Unfortunately. many legal and administrative
obstacles are still hampering MARA effort in debt collection. Its legal status is weak, its budget
has been halved for 1999, incentives for staff has been drastically reduced. Auctioning and price
determination mechanism for physical assets remain cumbersome. No secondary market for non-
performing loans has been created so far.
18. Debt workout Unit at the Trade Development BankL A special Debt Workout Unit,
responsible for the recovery of the four large non-performing loans extended to Ulaanbaatar
Carpet Factory. Erdenet Carpet Factory, Herlen Carpet Factory. and Ermieel Textile Company,
was established in mid 1997. The Debt Workout Unit is functioning with two staff and overseen
by a Director-level manager.32
19. The Unit has not met the deadline for the viability assessments and liquidationi/restructuring
plans established in the BESAC agreement. This was due to some delays caused by the late
Parliamentary ratification of BESAC first, and theni to the long-lasting and time-consuming
lawsuits with the defaulted borrowers. However, recently all the pending legal disputes between
TDB and the four borrowers have been solved, and TDB is making some progress in debt
recovering.33
20. After almost two years. the court made a final decision declaring the three carpet factories as
defaulters and determining the total amount the enterprises owe to TDB. The court has obliged
Erdenet carpet factory and Ulaanbaatar carpet factory to pay Tg2.7 billion and Tgl.7 billion to
TDB, respectively. TDB  has also reached an agreemenit with "iEermel" that envisages the
payment of Tg350 million from Eermel to TDB.34
21. TDB effort in debt recovery was recently boosted thanks to the technical assistance
component of BELTAC. Within that program, NBR, the consulting firm having the twinning
arrangement with TDB, made a viability assessment of Kherlen carpet factory (Choibalsan) in
July 1998, and suggested to liquidate the firm. The NBR consultants have also agreed to
undertake a liquidation plan of Kherlen carpet factory in the coming two months. Besides, NBR
is currently conductinig a comprehensive diagnostic review of Ulaanbaatar carpet factory,
including a viability assessment and a loan restructuring plan. Viability assessments and
restructuring/liquidation plans for Erdenet carpet factory and "Eermel" plant have not been done
by the NBR experts since such tasks, as the experts stated, were not covered by their TOR and
they are primarily responsible for loan restructuring.
22. Stopping the Flow of Bad Loans. Two measures requested by BESAC were expected to
contribute to the solution of the bad loan flow problem: the issue of a BOM regulation requiring
all commercial banks to report on a monthly basis their ten largest loans, and the establishment of
a Credit Information Bureau (CIB) within BOM. In a second stage, the CIB was expected to
become an organization independent of BOM.
23. In line with BESAC requirements, BOM issued the required regulation, and the CIB was
established in March 1997.35 In this respect, BOM has practically met the BESAC conditions
32 According to BESAC. the unit was expected to comprise a director-level manager and four full-time TDB staff
33 So far. TDB has recovered loans worth AusSh. 1.5 million through disposal of some inventories of the Erdenet
carpet factory (approx.US$1OO.000) in collaboration with the Bailiff's Office in 1997, and Ulaanbaatar carpet factory
(approx. US$537.000) during 1997-1998.
34 Eermel agreed to repay Tg30 million by the end of 1998, and the rest by the end of 1999.
35 At present, the CIB is still part of the BOM.



35                                   ANNEX A
satisfactorily. However, the mission believes that the solution of the loan quality within the
Mongolian banking sector is still distant. Despite the fact that the loan quality of some banks
have been improved, some other large banks have recently had very negative performance. All in
all, and mainly due to the performance of three major banks, the level of non performing loans as
a percentage of total banking sector loans has increased significanitly over recent months. As of
September 1998, the percentage of non-performing loans in the loan portfolio amounted to 45.9
percent (28.1 percent at the end of 1997).36
24. Credit Information Bureau (CIB). At present. only one person and one computer continue
to be deployed at the CIB. The flow of information collected by the CIB comprises general
information on borrowers, and amount of outstandinig loans classified according to BOM
standards. The informiation refers to the situation at the end of each montil. No informationl is
provided on loan commitments, collateral, average monthly balance, and group affiliated
borrowers. All in all, itformation provided by thie Bureau remains poor and limited, and access to
the system  is culilbersomle. CIB present status leaves room  for improvement, and its current
usefulness for commercial banks and central bank purposes remains scarce.
25. However, BOM hlas recently developed an ambitious plan to strengthen the CIB in terms of
financial and human resources, quality and amount of information gathered, links and
proceclures. In order to implement such a plan. BOM intends to -apply for World Bank financial
assistance within the technical assistance component of the Private Sector Development Credit,
which was approved by the Board of Directors of IDA on May 25, 1999. At present, it seems
unlikely the CIB will become an organizationi independent from the BOM by the end of 1998, as
stated in the Letter of Development Policy.
26. Review of the Banking Law and Regulation. BESAC required a full review of the banking
law by July 1, 1998. A review of the banking law was initiated by the BOM, and some important
amenecinilelts were approved by the Parliament; they have been effective since September 14,
1998.
27. The most significanit chanlges are the following. The selection criteria for commercial bank
executives, chairmen, and members of the Board of Directors have been tightened to prevent
people withi doubtful past. and insufficienit banking skills and experience from being nominated.
The BOM  has increased its control on commercial banks. For instance, BOM, on its own
initiative. may now call for a general shareholder meeting of a commercial bank at any time;
misleading advertising by banks is now strictly prohibited, and BOM can order those commercial
banks in violation to stop doing so. The minimum amount of the paid-up capital has been raised
from Tg400 million to Tgl billion, and dividend distribution have been made conditional to
comp[iance with BOM criteria. Auditing of commercial bank books, and commercial bank
financial reporting have been made more reliable and transparent. In case of breach of the
banking law, banks, staff members, and director executives face now higher penalties.
28. The mission has also been informed that changes in the banking regulation have been
recently introduced, and other are about to become effective. Some changes will refer to capital
adequacy requirements, and loan classification. The mission considers these changes to the
banking law and regulation to be positive and satisfactory for the BESAC program.
36 As far as loan quality is concerned, the impact indicator pointed out in BESAC is the repayment record of new
loans extended over the period 1997-98. However, the mission was not able to disentangle the contribution of new
loans to the high growth of non-performing loans.



36                                     ANNEX A
IV. Enterprise reform
29. Imposition of hard budget constraints. As part of the BESAC program, the Government
has been pursuing a strict fiscal policy aiming at hardening the budget constraint for state-owned
enterprises. In 1998, the Government has not provided subsidies to public enterprises, except to
urban transport enterprises which have received Tg500 million subsidies during 1998 (same
amount of 1997). During 1997-1998, there was no lending to public enterprises, even including
electricity and heating companies. The level of arrears in enterprise loan repayments to the
budget has been reduced by 1] percent in 1998 (50 percent decrease in 1997) from Tgl0.5 billion
to Tg9.4 billion. Moreover, the Government remains committed to lend. in case of need, at the
central bank bill rates in 1998. and at market rates in 1999.
30. Enterprise restructuring. Within the enterprise restructuring component BESAC envisaged
an economic analysis of Darkhan Minimetal and Bagahanigai Meat plants to decide about either a
viable reorganization or a liquidation of the two entities. BESAC requested to complete an
availability assessment by December 3 1, 1997, to approve respective restructuring/liquidation
plans by March 31, 1998, and to implement and complete restructuring-liquidation plans by
December 3 1. 1998. At the end of 1997, right after the ratification of BESAC, the State Property
Committee selected BMB, a Dutch consulting firm, to conduct viability assessment and
restructuring-liquidation plans for both enterprises.
31. Bagahangai Meat Plant (BMP). The viability assessment of BMP was completed on March
13,1998. The conclusion of the preliminary analysis was that, despite BMP theoretical potential
for viability, the liquidation of BMP represented a safer route for the Government compared to
the risk of further failure. However, on April 20, the SPC in conjunction with the Government,
decided to go ahead with the restructuring, confirmed to provide the necessary financial support,
and requested BMB to proceed with the development of the restructuring plan.
32. On August 1. 1998 BMB presented the final implementation report. Besides, BMP
management, withi the guidance and assistance of BMB, produced a detailed business plan for the
current and next four years. The business plan contains very ambitious production targets-so far
BMP has kept operations at an extremely low level-and forecasts pre-tax profits of Tg2.1
billion during the 1998-2002 period. However, these figures are based on many debatable
assumptions, and according to the BMB consultants the level of profits indicated by BMP may
prove to be optimistic.37
33. Darkhan Minimetal Plant (DMP). The preliminary viability assessment of DMP, undertook
by BMB on behalf of the SPC, was completed in March 1998. The assessment concluded that the
liquidation of DMP would produce only modest realization proceeds (about Tg800 million).
Conversely, a successful restructuring of DMP could be achieved, given the important steps
toward restructuring already taken in 1996 and 1997. Assuming achievement of production/sales
targets, considered realistic by the BMB consultants, DMP could generate cash flow estimated at
Tg7.9 billion over the next five years. However, the viability of the restructuring requires
additional financial support by the MOF estimated at Tg2.1 billion.
37 For instance, profits are stated prior to consideration of interest charges on existing bank borrowings and on new
working capital loans from the MOF; the level of first grade meat which BMP is forecasted to achieve is equal to 85
percent of total meat production, against 50 percent which seems to be the industry average; the meat yield from live
weights of animals has been estimated by BMP management as equal to 48 percent, and even a slippage to 47 percent
would reduce the cash flow shown in the business plan to break-even; no provision is included for future refurbishing
and replacing of BMP's plants and equipment; last but not least, very little consideration has been given to the demand
side of the market.



37                                   ANNEX A
34. In April 1998, the SPC confirmed the necessary financial support and instructed BMB to start
developing the restructuring program. DMP restructuring started in June 1998. DMP
management, with the assistance of BMB consultants, produced a detailed business plan for 1998
and the next five years. Based on some prudent assumptions. the projections show BMP should
start generating profits in the year 2000. Again the figures are stated prior to consideration of
interest charges on existing bank borrowings and new working capital loans from the MOF.
35. In June 1998, an agreement was reached about the on-lending arrangement between MOF
and the two enterprises. The terms of the arrangement for the "working capital" lending envisage
a ten year maturity, four year grace period, and I percent interest rate per year. The two parts also
agreed on a disbursement schedule that envisaged full disbursement of Tgl billion by July 1997
for BMP, and about Tg2 billion by the end of 1999 for DMP. However, MOF has disbursed so
far only about 77 percent of the committed funds. This delay has negatively affected the
performance of the two enterprises. and especially BMP given its seasonal activity. Moreover,
concerns have been raised by the DMP and BMP management about the conditions of the on-
lending agreement. In particular, the two enterprises complained about the foreign exchange risk
they have to bear, and about the asymmetry of the penalty determination mechanism (penalties
are envisaged for delay in repayment by enterprises, but there is no penalty for delay in
disbursement by the MOF).
36. As far as the enterprise restructurinig componlenit is concerned, the mission considers that
BESAC' conditions have been met, althoughi with some delays. However, the mission expresses
some concerns on the terms and amount of credit extended by the MOF to the two enterprises.
Besides, in the light of the results of the BMB studies and the restructuring actions in progress,
consideration should be given for an earlier privatization of both enterprises.
37. Status of Enterprise Privatization. Under the Mongolian Government privatization
strategy, approved in July 1997, all state-owned economic enterprises (about 850) are expected to
be privatized by the year 2000. During 1997, privatization revenues amounted to Tgl5 billion
(1.9 percent of GDP), and Tgl6 billion revenue are expected for fiscal year 1998. The majority of
small firms and properties have already been sold, but the biggest and most sensitive industries
have not been privatized yet.
38. Insolvency Law. A new insolvency law has been effective since January 1998. However, the
application of the new law still encounters obstacles due to the lack of implementing rules. On
this front, useful initiatives are being implemented within BELTAC, the BESAC twin program.
Thirty three judges have been trained on insolvency issues, and three judges are about to visit
South Korea to get experience and to study the Korean case; these three judges will be
responsible for preparing the implementing rules of the new insolvency law.
Concllusions
39. Thie general assessment of the implementation status of the BESAC project is satisfactory.
Despite some delays in the implementation of some covenants, the project is moving ahead
almost as planned. The observed delays are mainly due to factors that are out of the control of the
Mongolian implementing agencies. Delays in court decisions and the strong decline in the price
of copper are two cases in point. In the second part of 1998, good progress has been made in
restructuring enterprises, imposing hard budget constraints, and also in reviewing the banking
law. However, some other issues still require actions by the Mongolian authorities: the biggest
state-owned enterprises need to be privatized; bank restructuring and privatization need to go
ahead; MARA needs stronger support from the government to continue in its effort of debt



38                                 ANNEX A
recovery; plans for reorganizing the CIB has to be implemented. For the rating of each project
development objective see Form 590.



39                                    ANNEX A
Annex 1. BESAC actions and monitoring indicators
Specific actions and monitoring indicators related to the banking sector program and following
credit effectiveness included the following:
e  Prepare privatization plans, acceptable to IDA, to privatize all state-owned banks (by July 1,
1998; institutional responsibility: BOM, SPC);
*  Complete a review of the implementation of the banking law (by July 1, 1998; institutional
resiponsibility: BOM, MOJ );
*  Move the Credit Information Bureau to an organization independent of BOM (by December
31, 1998; institutional responsibility: BOM):
*  Co-mplete viability assessments for all four selected enterprises (by December 31, 1997;
institutional responsibility: TD Bank and selected enterprises):
*  Coimplete implementation of restructurinig/liquidation plans of selected enterprises (by
December 31, 1998; institutionial responsibility: TD Bank and selected enterprises).
Specific actions and monitoring indicators related to the enterprise sector program and following
credit effectiveness included the following:
*  Reduce the level of arrears in enterprise loan payments to the budget to 24 percent of loan
outstanding in 1997: 10 percent in 1998. and 0 percent in 1999 (institutional responsibility:
MOF);
*  Ellnimiate all government subsidies to public enterprises starting from the 1997 budget, with
the exception of urban transport enterprises which will be limited to Tg455 million in 1997,
Tgl500 million in 1998, and Tg700 million in 1999 (institutional responsibility: MOF);
*  Stop all governiment loans, except to enterprises in electricity and heating, starting from the
1997 budget. MOF loans to these enterprises will be given at 2 percentage points below the
cenitral bank bill rate in 1997; at the central bank bill rate in 1998, and at market rates by the
1999 (institutional responsibility: MOF);
*  Complete viability assessments for Darkhan Minimetal and Bagahangai Meat plants (by
December 3 1, 1997), approve respective restructuring/liquidation plans (by March 3 1, 1998),
and implemenit and complete restructuring/liquidation  plans (by December 31, 1998)
(institutional responsibility: SPC and MOF):
*  Prepare a privatization program for all state-owned enterprises (by July 1, 1997; institutional
responsibility: SPC):
*  Present a draft insolvency law to Parliament, satisfactory to IDA (by September 30, 1997;
institutional responsibility: MOJ).



40                                  ANNEX B
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
April 1. 1999
Mr. Hoon Mok Chung
Sector Manager
Private Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
Washington, D.C 20433 U.S.A
FAX: (202) 522 34 54
Your Excellency,
Re:  Evaluation Report on implementation of BESAC project
by the Ministry of Finance
1. The Governmenlt's Medium-Term Economic Strategy supported by a IMF ESAF and the
BESAC got off to an impressive start in 1997. Inflation fell from 45 percent in 1996 to 20
percent, well below the program target. and growth recovered from 2.6 percent in 1996 to 4
percent. The external current account (excluding official transfers) shifted from a sizable deficit
(10 percent of GDP) in 1996 to a small surplus (1.3 percent of GDP), reflecting strong export
price and volume growth.
(i) Assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation and operation experience.
2. The Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (BESAC) was signed on July 3 1,
1997. BESAC is the project to support the Govermenit's effort to recover the outstanding loans
from those enterprises that most adversely influenlce the banking system. Implementation of both
the banking and enterprises restructurinig componenits of the project are considered satisfactory,
as is the overall implemenitationi of the project.
3. On the bankinig sector front, BESAC pursued the following key objectives: (i) supporting the
implementation of the bank restructurinig strategy: (ii) stepping up the commercial bank loan
recovery effort; and (iii) assisting the Government in the adjustment process of the banking
sector needed to serve a new market-oriented economy.
4. Within the support of the overall bank restructuring strategy, up-front measures were
implemented prior to Board presentation. These measures included the liquidation of two large
insolvent banks (People's Bank and Insurance Bank), the establishment of two new commercial
banks (Savings Bank and Reconstruction Bank), and the creation of the Mongolian Asset
Realization Agency (MARA).
5. The Mongolian banking sector restructuring strategy was related to the development of a debt
workout capacity, and to the intensification of the loan recovery effort by the government and
commercial banks. This was a two-pronged strategy. On the one hand, the recovery of the stock
of non-performing loans was delegated to MARA and to a special debt workout unit within Trade
and Development Bank (TDB). Over last 2 years 7.3 billion Togrogs of bad loans were recovered
by MARA; on the other hand, measures to deal with the flow problem of new loans extended to
potential defaulting borrowers were adopted as well. Registered Borrowers in MARA have been
provided with certifications on clearance of bad loans.



41                                  ANNEX B
6. A special Debt Workout Unit, responsible for the recovery of the four large non-performing
loans extended to Ulaanbaatar Carpet Factory, Erdenet Carpet Factory, Herlen Carpet Factory,
and Eermel Textile Company was established in mid-1997. The Debt Workout Unit has taken
related policy measures, and 150.7 million Togrogs of bad loans was recovered from four
enterprises. Delays in court decisions also resulted in weak recovery of bad loans.
7. The Bank of Mongolia established the Credit Information Bureau (CIB). The flow of
information collected by the CIB comprises general information on borrowers, and the amount of
outstanding loans classified according to Bank of Mongolia standards. The information refers to
the outstanding loans at the end of each month, and is disseminated to other commercial banks.
8. Despite delays in the implementation of some covenants, the program supported by the
Project is moving ahead almost as planned. The observed delays are mainly due to factors that
are beyond the control of the Mongolian implementing agencies. Delays in court decisions and
the strong decline in the price of copper are two cases in point. In the second part of 1998, good
progress was in restructuring enterprises, imposing hard budoet constraints and also in revising
the banking law.
9. However, some other issues still require actions by the Mongolian authorities: the biggest
state-owned enterprises need to be privatized; bank restructuring and privatization need to go
ahead; MARA needs stronger support from the government to continue in its effort of debt
recovery; and plans for reorganizing the CIB need to be implemented.
10. The imposition of hard budget constraints was a key element to prevent defaulting
enterprises, cut off from bank credit, from turning to the budget as an alternative source of
finance. This program eliminated all Governiment subsidies to enterprises.
I 1. The enterprise restructuring component aimed also to restructure or liquidate six selected
enterprises, chosen on the basis of their relatively large amount of non-performing loans. The
objective was to attain either a viable reorganization or a liquidation of the six entities, based on
the results of preliminary viability assessments.
12. According to this objective the following policy measures have been taken: By end-1997,
right after the ratification of BESAC by Parliament, the State Property Committee (SPC) selected
BMB, a consulting firm, from  the Netherlands, to conduct viability assessments and
restructuring-liquidation schedules for Darkhan Minimetal (DMP) and Bagakhangai Meat
processing (BMP) plants.
13. Implementation of the restructurinig schedule for DMP began on June 1, 1998, and that for
BMP on July 1, 1998. In addition to the restructuring schedules, BMB developed 5-year business
plans for the two enterprises. Implementationi of the business plans is underway.
(ii) Performance of the Borrower and implementing Agencies and Lessons learned.
14. The project implementation plaii was prepared and approved by the SPC. MARA was
established in the beginling of 1997, and is monitoring the following private light enterprises:
Erdenet Carpet Company; Dornod Carpet Company; UB Carpet Company; and Eermel Textile
Company.
15. The Debt Workout Unit has not met the deadline for the viability assessments and
liquidation-restructuring plans established in the BESAC agreement. This was due to some
delays caused first by the late Parliamentary ratification of BESAC and subsequently to the
drawn-out and time-consuming lawsuits with the defaulting borrowers. Recently, however, all the
pending legal disputes between TDB and the four Borrowers have been solved, and TDB is



42                                    ANNEX B
making some progress in debt recovery. After almost two years, the court made a final decision
declaring the three carpet factories and the Eermel Textile Plant as defaulters, and determining
the total amount the enterprises owe to TDB.
16. Trade and Development Bank ' s (TDB) efforts in debt recovery have been boosted thanks to
the technical assistance component of BELTAC. Within that program, NBR, the consulting firm
having the twinning arrangement with TDB, made a viability assessment of Kherlen Carpet
Factory (Dornod) in July 1998, and suggested it to be liquidated. The NBR consultants have also
agreed to prepare a liquidation plan for Kherlen Carpet Factory in the coming two months. In
addition, Norwegian Banking Resources (NBR) is currently conducting a comprehensive
diagnostic review of Ulaanbaatar Carpet Factory, including a viability assessment and a loan
restructuring plan. Viability assessments and restructiring-liquidationi plans for Erdenet Carpet
Factory and Eermel Plant have not been done by the NBR experts since such tasks, as the experts
stated, were not covered by their Terms of Reference (TOR) and they are primarily responsible
for loan restructuring.
(iii) World Bank Performance.
17. The World Bank played a strong role in this project. The policy-based Banlking and
Enterprise Adjustment Credit (US$10 million), and an associated Bankinig. Enterprise and Legal
Technical Assistance Credit (US$2 million). became effective in November 1997. These
operations are assisting the government in implemenitilig its structural reform  programs in the
financial and enterprise sector, and developing the legal framework for commercial and financial
transactions. Extensive technical assistance has been provided to Mongolia by the World Bank,
which has played an important role in implementing key structural measures and developing an
institutional and legal framework essential for a market economy.
18. World Bank performance was satisfactory for this project. We learned a lot during the
implementation of the Project. For instanice, viability analysis and business plan will be used for
other enterprises. However, the Borrower and World Bankl did not designate officials to be in
charge of coordination of project components and compiling the progress reports. In lieu of this,
the project has satisfactorily coordinated throLigil supervision missions and the cooperation
among the officials responsible for the separate componienlts.
2. The Operational Plan for the Future
19. With little prospect for siginificanit improvemilenit in the terms of trade in the short-to-medium
term, the government will need to undertake a strong adjustment effort to promote sustained
output growth of 3 1/2 - 4 1:/ percenit and mainitaini a single-digit inflation performance, while
raising gross reserve cover to a more adequate level of 13 weeks of imports. To achieve these
objectives a strong fiscal consolidationi effort will be required, with a progressive reduction in the
overall deficit to around 6 1/4 percent of GDP by 2001. To prevent a crowding out of the private
sector or a resurgence of inflationiary pressures, net credit to government will be contained to 1
percent of GDP in 1999, and zero in 2000-2001, subject to the availability of adequate
concessional external loans.
20. The state-owned enterprise sector continiues to face serious financial problems stemming
from poor management and low efficiency. Privatization remains the principal means to reduce
the size of the state sector and achieve higher sustainable economic growth.
21. Under the government's strategy, a comprehensive list covering almost all state-owned
enterprises and immovable assets was announced for privatization by 2000.  Privatization



43                                  ANNEX B
procedures were simplified and sales techniques were broadened. The privatization program is
supported by technical assistance from USAID.
22. Privatization has proceeded rapidly, and total receipts during 1997-98 (Tg28.5 billion) were
considerably higher than originally expected. The Government is also drafting an Enterprise
Restructuring Program. This program is being supported by a UNDP/Netherlands US$2.8
million, Enterprise Restructuring Project covering the 1998-2001 period. The executing agency is
the State Property Committee. The implementing agency is the Enterprise Management and
Restructuring Center (EMRC). The project target is to restructure 10 newly-privatized large
businesses (selected by competition using 23 criteria).
23. The development objective of this project is to hielp shortenl the length and cost of the
transition to a market economy by helping to restructure I0 key enterprises, and thereby develop
models and methodologies for such restructurinig in Mongolia and enhance the capacities of
Mongolian institutions to undertake restructurinig of viable enterprises. This should help build a
more dynamic private sector, leading to increased productioni and avoid tihe unnecessary loss of
productive assets and gainful employment opportunities.
24. The Government of Mongolia (GOM) is seeking additional financial support and technical
assistance for banking and enterprise restructuring. The Government and Bank of Mongolia have
formulated a medium-term banking and enterprise reform program for the period 1997-2000 in
close collaboration with the IMF, ADB, and the Word Bank.
25. The government recognizes that its strategy for private sector-led growth must be built on the
foundation of a solvent and viable banking system. Decisive measures are therefore needed to
arrest the recent sharp deterioration in the financial conditions of commercial banks. To this end,
a comprehensive strategy for banking reform has been adopted in collaboration with the IMF, the
ADB, arid the USAID. The strategy addresses two major issues currently confronting the banking
system: the insolvency of three major commercial banks and the deep rooted systemic problems
which are hindering effective financial intermediation. The reforms to correct these problems will
be guided by four principles: (1) the need for a substantial reduction in the state ownership of
commercial banks through privatization; (2) the need to strictly contain the use of public funds
for banking sector restructuring; (3) the need to enhance the enforcement of prudential norms by
the BOM; and (4) the need to strengthen the legal and supervisory framework to promote good
corporate governance and market discipline in the banking system.
26. To resolve the insolvency of three major commercial banks, the BOM and GOM is
implementing a comprehensive, time-bound action plan. In thefirst phase, conservators and full-
time bank restructuring advisors will be appointed to halt a further deterioration in the financial
position of the three insolvent banks. In the second phase, plans for operational restructuring will
be implemented by the advisors, including closures of branches, reductions in overhead and
current expenditures, and restriction of the expansion in liabilities and loan portfolios of the
banks. In the last phase (by end-1999), decisions will be taken to deal with the three banks
through recapitalization, privatization, and liquidation. Implementation of the restructuring plan
will be overseen by a High Level Steering Committee, with operational support from a technical
Restructuring Working Group.
27. A wide range of actions will be taken in 1999, and beyond, to ensure that the bank
restructuring proceeds in a transparent and sound manner and that the systemic banking problems
are addressed in line with the general principles mentioned above. Parliamentary approval of a
bank privatization strategy will be secured to make the privatization process transparent and



44                                   ANNEX B
irreversible, and the sale of the Trade and Development Bank will be completed by December
1999.
28. In order to limit financial costs borne by the public sector, government funds for
recapitalization will be provided only in the event of privatization, up to an amount which will
bring the bank's net worth to zero. Under conservatorship, new lending by insolvent banks will be
terminated; collateralized liquidity support by the BOM will be provided only to contain system
risk in the interbank payment system, and the hierarchy of claims in the Banking Law, which
gives highest priority to household deposits, will be strictly enforced.
29. With regard to bank supervision, the BOM  will continue to strengthen prudential and
regulatory norms, review bank licenses and take action in cases where banks fail to meet the
license and "fit and proper" criteria, and initiate prompt supervisory and legal action against
banks violating prudential regulations.
Sincerely.
Goncihig Oyungerel
Director
Restructurinig Policy Department
Ulaanibaatar. Mongolia



