Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7040-MOG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMEN T ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SD)R 7.2 MILLION
TO
MONGOLIA
FOR A
BANKING AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
March 25 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 8, 1997)
Currency Unit = Tugrik (Tg)
S1.00 = Tg 730
Tg 1.00 = SO.0014
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)                3.28 feet (ft)  I ton (t)  =        1,000 kg
I kilometer (kmn)       = 0.62 miles                  =        2,205 pounds
I square kilometer (km )   = 100 ha     I Kilogram (kg)=       2.2 pounds
I hectare (ha)          = 2.47 acres
= 15mu
ABBREVIATIONS .NND ACRONYMS
ADB        - Asian Development Bank
aimag/som  - countv/province
BELTAC   - Banking, Enterprise and Legal Technical Assistance Credit
BESAC      - Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
BIS        - Bank of Intemational Settlement
BOM        - Bank of Mongolia (Central Bank)
CAS        - Country Assistance Strategy
CEM        - Country Economic Memorandum
CIB        - Credit Information Bureau
DUC        - Democratic Union Coalition
DWU        - Debt Workout Units
EDI        - Economic Development Institute
ESAF       - Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FDIC       - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (USA)
FSPL       - Financial Sector Program Loan (ADB)
FSTA       - Financial Sector Technical Assistance
GDP        - Gross Domestic Product
GOM           Government of Mongolia
IDA        - Intemational Development Association
IFIs       - Intemational Financial Institutions
IMF        - Intemational Monetar, Fund
ITI        - Investment and Technological Innovation Bank
MARA       - Mongolia Asset Realizatioi Agency
MOF        - Ministry of Finance
MOJ        - Ministry of Justice
MOU        - Memorandum of Understanding
MPRP       - Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party
NDP        - National Democratic Parrm
PFP        - Policy Framework Paper
PHRD       - Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
SDP        - Social Democratic Party
SDR        - Special Drawing Rights
SPC        - State Property Comiminee
TA         - Technical Assistance
TAC        - Technical Assistance Credit
T&D        - Trade and Development Bank
USAID      - United States Agency for Intemational Development
FISCAL YEAR
Januarv I - December 31
Vice President:       Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director:             Nicholas C. Hope, EA2
Division Chief:       Klaus Rohland, EA2CO
Task Manager:         Hongjoo Hahmn, EA2CO



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MONGOLIA
BANKING AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Mongolia
Implementing Agency:          Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Beneficiary:                  MOF, Bank of Mongolia, State Property Committee.
Poverty:                      N.A.
Amount:                       SDR 7.2 million ($ 10 million equivalent)
Terms:                        Standard IDA terms, with a 40-year maturity.
Commitment Fee:               0.50  percent on  undisbursed  credit balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:               Single tranche of $10 million.
Economic Rate of Return:      Not Applicable
Map:                         IBRD 26450
Project ID Number:            MN-PE-41741
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






CONTENTS
PART I. INTRODUCTION ..............................................................1
PART II. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND FINANCING
REQUIREMENTS ..............................................................2
A.  Recent Economic Developments ..............................................................2
B. Recent Political Developments ..............................................................3
C.  Financing  Requirements ..............................................................3
PART III. THE GOVERNMENT BANKING AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR
REFORM PROGRAM ..............................................................6
A. Banking  Sector Reforms ..............................................................6
B. Enterprise Sector Reforms .............................................................                                        15
C. Social Impact of Banking and Enterprise Reform .20
D. Legal Issues Pertaining  to Banking  and  Enterprise Reform  .................................... 21
E. Fiscal Implications of Banking  and Enterprise Reforms .......................................... 22
PART IV. IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY                                                    ........................................ 24
A.  Country  Assistance  Strategy ...........................................................                                     24
B. Links with  other IDA  operations ..........................................................                                   25
C.  Lessons of Experience ..........................................................                                              25
PART  V.  THE  PROPOSED   CREDIT  ...........................................................                                         27
A.  Credit Amount and  Borrower ...........................................................                                       27
B. Disbursement Arrangements ..........................................................                                           27
C. Tranche Conditions ..........................................................                                                  27
D. Accounts and  Audits ..........................................................                                                29
E.  Monitoring  Arrangements ...........................................................                                          29
F. Environmental Assessment Requirements ...........................................................    29
G.  Benefits and  Risks ..........................................................                                                29
ANNEX  1: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1991-98 ................................................ 33
ANNEX  2:  THE  BANKING  SECTOR ...........................................................                                           36
ANNEX  3: THE  ENTERPRISE  SECTOR ..........................................................                                          45
ANNEX 4: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY AND MATRIX OF KEY
POLICY  ACTIONS ...........................................................                                        56
ANNEX 5: PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ............................................... 66
ANNEX  6:  MONGOLIA-AT-A-GLANCE ..........................................................                                              68






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO MONGOLIA
FOR A BANKING AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to Mongolia for SDR 7.2 million, the equivalent of $10
million on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years to help finance a Banking and
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit.
PART I. INTRODUCTION
2.    The proposed Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (BESAC) is an
adjustment operation designed to support the banking and enterprise reform program of
the Government of Mongolia.  Reform  of these sectors is a key element of the
International Development Association (IDA)'s Country Assistance Strategy.  In
addition, the proposed Credit would help meet external financing requirements and
support the budget which will be burdened by the costs of these reforms. The proposed
adjustment program would build on and complement the macroeconomic stabilization
and structural reform measures, undertaken by the Government and supported by an IMF
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility Program. It would tackle the main structural
problems of the banking and enterprise sectors through an integrated approach that
broadly aims to restore the banking system as an efficient and safe intermediator of
resources, and to improve the economic and financial performance of select public and
recently privatized enterprises. The main elements of the Government's policy reform
agenda in the banking sector are to:
(a) stop the flow of bad lending from banks to defaulting borrowers;
(b) restructure individual commercial banks to promote the development of a
solvent, viable banking system; and
(c) develop commercial banking skills and aggressively implement loan recovery
efforts.
In the enterprise sector, the objectives are to:
(d) privatize remaining public enterprises that were earmarked for cash
privatization;
(e) impose hard budget constraints on public enterprises; and



- 2 -
(f) resolve nonperforming loans to enterprises through restructuring and/or
liquidation.
3.    The institutions responsible for implementing the reform  program  will be
supported by IDA's proposed Banking, Enterprise and Legal Technical Assistance Credit
(BELTAC), which is being presented to the Board together with BESAC. BELTAC is
designed to promote longer-term institutional and skills development and appropriate
legal and regulatory reform so that the programs implemented under the BESAC can be
sustained.
PART 11. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND
FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
A. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
4.    After suffering through four years of decline, Mongolia achieved a significant
turnaround in 1994 with 2.5 percent GDP growth and a further 6.3 percent growth in
1995. Lower copper prices, however, disrupted growth in 1996, and the estimated GDP
growth rate for 1996 is 2.6 percent. Inflation, which reached 325 percent in 1993, fell to
53 percent in 1995, and remained at that level in 1996 (see Annex 1, Table 1). During
1996, the Mongolian economy was hit by a succession of adverse developments that
reversed some of the progress painstakingly made over the past years.  Many of
Mongolia's recent economic developments were the result of terms of trade shocks. A 25
percent decline in world copper prices in 1996, a 10 percent fall in cashmere prices, and
further increases in world petroleum prices', induced a cost to the Mongolian economy
equivalent to 10.3 percent of GDP in 1996, compared to a windfall gain of 8 percent in
1995.
5.    Mongolia saw a major erosion of public confidence in the banking system in
1996, with the collapse of a small private bank and the closure of two large banks that
held approximately 50 percent of total deposits in the country.  Moreover, public
enterprise defaults to the budget and the banking system have further crippled the banks
and have led them to charge unsustainably high interest rates. In April 1996, extensive
forest and steppe fires lowered agricultural supplies and exports. While the agriculture
exports and the copper, cashmere and petroleum terms of trade problems are likely to
self-correct, the problems in the financial and enterprise sectors pose a longer-term threat
to stabilization and growth. The 1996 banking crisis poses implications for inflation,
financial control, and growth in the real sector. The authorities will have to further
resolve the banking crisis and consistently implement strict macroeconomic policies to
The copper sector accounts for a quarter of GDP, half of export earnings, and about a third of overall tax
receipts. Cashmere is the second leading export item, accounting for about 15 percent of export receipts.
Petroleum and petroleum products account for 20 percent of its imports.



restore stability. Structural reforms are needed to further enhance the credibility of
stabilization, and to spur growth by increasing productivity of the real sector.
B. RECENT POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS
6.    The present Government, a coalition of the National Democratic and the Social
Democratic Parties, was elected on June 30, 1996.  The new Government ran on a
platform to further advance market reforms, both in terms of speed and scope. It is
committed to accelerating bank restructuring and privatization, and to implementing a
comprehensive set of fiscal reforms.  The new  administration faces formidable
challenges. Since 1993, the Government has implemented strict stabilization policies
under a three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility/Policy Framework Paper
(ESAF/PFP) Program. The ESAF arrangement expired in June 1996, and a new ESAF
Program is planned for 1997-1999. Maintaining a macroeconomic stabilization program,
under a new ESAF Program, remains a priority for the authorities.
C. FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
7.    Introduction.  The Government and Bank of Mongolia have formulated a
medium-term banking and enterprise reform program for the period 1997-99, in close
collaboration with the IMF, ADB, and IDA. The Government is negotiating an IMF
ESAF Program, which is scheduled for presentation to the Board of the Fund in June
1997. Financial assistance from the Fund under ESAF is in an amount of SDR 33.4
million ($48 million) over three years, equivalent to 90 percent of quota. In support of
the Government's banking sector reforms, the Board of Directors of the ADB has
approved a $35 million Financial Sector Program Loan (FSPL), and a $3 million
Technical Assistance Loan to develop commercial banking skills. The FSPL was
presented and approved by the Board of Directors of the ADB on December 18, 1996.
The Governnent is requesting financial assistance from IDA under BESAC in an amount
of $10 million, and under BELTAC in an amount of $2 million.
8.    The IMF has already negotiated a 1997 financial program for Mongolia with the
authorities as part of the proposed ESAF arrangement. The financial program monitors
monetary aggregates, net lending levels, and financing options for the budget. The
financial program goes into effect on April 1, 1997. On this basis, ADB released the first
tranche of its Financial Sector Program Loan in January 1997. An IMF mission is
scheduled for late-April/early-May to review the prior actions needed to successfully
conclude the ESAF negotiations. The prior actions include, civil service reforms, specific
privatization targets for 1997, tax reform and other revenue-enhancing measures, and
2The formerly communist Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party (MPRP), which had dominated the
Great Khural (Parliament) since it won 70 out of 76 seats in the first general elections in 1992, was
toppled by the Democratic Union Coalition (DUC), a coalition of the National Democratic Party (NDP)
and the Social Democratic Party (SDP). DUC obtained 50 of the 76 seats, while the MPRP collected only
25. The one remaining seat belongs to an independent candidate from a conservative party.



- 4 -
submission of an amended 1997 budget by the end of April. In this regard, BESAC is
part of a coordinated multi-donor approach to reforming the Mongolian banking and
enterprise sectors. In order to achieve a sustainable level of growth, the Government
must further resolve the banking crisis, implement broad structural reforms, and
consistently implement strict macroeconomic policies. Banking and enterprise reforms
will enhance the credibility of stabilization, and macroeconomic stabilization is a pre-
requisite to structural reforms. BESAC is thus designed to complement ADB's FSPL, as
well as the Government's macroeconomic program that will be supported by ESAF.
9.    External Outlook. The medium term balance of payments prospects continue to
be constrained by Mongolia's narrow export base and the need for substantial investment.
The current account deficit is expected to increase to about 11 percent of GDP in 1997
before narrowing to 9 percent of GDP in 1998.  Without access to external
nonconcessional borrowing, Mongolia will have to rely on continued support from the
international donor community. The external financing gap for 1997 is filled, but is
projected to be over $26 million in 1998. The 1997figures take into account $17 million
in disbursementfrom ADB's FSPL; $10 million in disbursement from IDA 's BESAC; and
about $10 million in disbursements from IMF's ESAF (a below the line item). The $26
million financial gap for 1998 includes projected ADB/IDA/IMF disbursements. The
remaining gap for 1998 is largely expected to be filled with grant funds from bilateral
donors (see Annex 1, Table 2).
10.   Fiscal Outlook. The fiscal situation is expected to be precarious, and the overall
deficit is likely to stay at about 9 percent of GDP in 1997, and drop to about 8.7 percent
in 1998. Foreign financing will continue to be required if this deficit is to avoid undue
inflationary pressures. Based on current policies, revenues are projected to recover
slowly in 1997 and 1998. In contrast, budgetary outlays will need to expand from their
present level to pay for the banking and enterprise reform measures. In keeping with the
Government's objective of bringing down inflation within single digits by 1999, the
budget's recourse to domestic financing is limited, and the 1997 budget deficit will, by
and large, be financed from  abroad.  In view of the country's lack of access to
commercial borrowing, much of this foreign financing will need to come in the form of
program aid, including the assistance package proposed under BESAC (see Annex 1,
Table 3).
11.   Sustainability of Reform. The Government's medium-term reform program for
1997-99 aims to stabilize the economy and consolidate earlier gains by pressing ahead
with structural reforms. The main structural reforms are to harden budget constraints of
public enterprises and thereby help improve the soundness of the banking system; to
foster development of the private sector; and to increase public sector savings by
expanding and diversifying the revenue base, while at the same time rationalizing and
curtailing current expenditures in order to release sufficient resources for a well-targeted
social safety net. The fiscal impact of the combined reform program is substantial.
However, most of the expenditures are one-time injections of funds that fall due in the
first year of the program, with smaller outlays in 1998 and beyond. The Government's



- 5 -
1997-98 cash privatization program, and the bank-led enterprise restructuring approach
that is being supported by BESAC, will generate cash revenues and reduce budgetary
outlays to enterprises, minimizing the fiscal burden of structural reforms in the medium-
tern. The proposed program of structural reforms should then eliminate the need for
large balance of payments assistance over time.
12.   Need for Structural Change. The financial condition of the banking sector has
deteriorated rapidly over the past year. The system faces serious liquidity problems and
an erosion of public confidence. The economy cannot continue to develop, let alone
grow and thrive, without a healthy financial system. Reforrns are needed to ensure that
banks are able effectively to fulfill their roles as collectors of savings, allocators of credit,
and managers of the payment system. In its present condition, the banking system is not
conducive to the development of the private sector nor integral to the savings-investment
intermediation process. Banking reforms, however, must be conducted concomitantly
with enterprise reforms, as the viability of the system is closely related to the conditions
of its clients.  Banks are the principal sources of enterprise financing in market
economies, and weak enterprise performance will inevitably affect the banking system.
The slow pace of enterprise adjustment creates a drag on economic growth, both through
efficiency losses and by crowding out the emerging private sector. Structural reforms in
both the banking and enterprise sectors are essential for the success of the Government's
medium-term reform program.
13.   The Medium-term  Reform  Program.  As part of a multi-year strategy of
reforrn, the Government has developed, and has begun to initiate, a comprehensive
reform strategy that focuses on removing structural bottlenecks to sustained economic
growth. Structural reforms embodied in the medium-term reform program are designed
to complement and support the Government's short-term stabilization effort on the
macroeconomic front. The Government has discussed broad elements of this strategy
with IDA in our on-going policy dialogue as well as in the context of the ESAF/PFP
discussions. IDA will support the Government's medium-termn reform program with a
series of single tranche operations, starting with BESAC in FY97, followed by a
proposed Private Sector Development Credit in FY98. BESAC will follow the successful
negotiation of the IMF ESAF/PFP program so that structural reforms envisaged under the
proposed Credit can support the ESAF stabilization objectives. As a condition of credit
effectiveness, the Government will have in place a sound macroeconomic framework,
consistent with the objectives of the Program, to the satisfaction of IDA. Successful
negotiation of ESAF will be a key monitoring indicator.  In the context of the
Government's medium-term reform, II)A will monitor the implementation of these
reforms, by examining the levels of non-concessional loans, domestic financing of the
budget deficit, net credit to government, and net domestic assets. The broad elements of
the medium-term reform program are detailed in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy (see Annex 4).
14.   Sequence of Reforms. The primary focus of the first-year reforms is in the
banking sector, followed by intensive reform efforts in the enterprise sector in the second-



-6 -
year. The authorities will concentrate on stabilizing the banking sector, and aggressively
pursue nonperforming loans while imposing strict restrictions on new bank lending to the
defaulting enterprises. Restrictions on bank lending to enterprises should initiate further
enterprise reforms, especially when supplemented by hard budget constraints from the
budget. Reforms in the enterprise sector will be sequenced to follow banking reforms.
The Government's privatization program will be launched in the latter half of 1997,
supplemented by a pilot public enterprise reform program that will begin in early 1998
under BESAC/BELTAC.
PART III. THE GOVERNMENT BANKING AND ENTERPRISE
SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
15.   The Government's banking and enterprise sector reform  program  has been
elaborated and refined jointly by Government agencies and other participating
organizations, including BOM, the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Ministry of Justice
(MOJ), the State Property Committee (SPC), and selected commercial banks and
enterprises.   Important elements  of this  reform   program   are  already  under
implementation, and some progress achieved. Additional reform measures will be
introduced in the coming months. The full range of policy measures to be undertaken
over the next two years is detailed below.
A. BANKING SECTOR REFORMS
16.   Background. In the past, the main function of the banking system was to transfer
Government resources to public enterprises. The monobanking system has since been
dismantled, and a commercial banking sector has emerged to engage in lending activities.
The ownership structures of these banks are diverse. Enterprises acquired parts of state
banks and established new banks in the early transition period. These enterprise-owned
banks were then privatized when their owners were privatized. Most banks, however, are
deeply troubled and heavily burdened with nonperforming loans. Half of the problem
loans are the result of inherited loans from the monobanking system and from Government-
directed credit to public enterprises'; and the remaining half are problem loans made by the
banks themselves. The extent of bank-made bad loans is attributable to poor commercial
banking skills, weak bank management, and a lack of creditworthy borrowers. The
Government has identified and has taken full responsibility for the nonperforming loans
inherited from the monobanking system, and for the directed lending that continued after
3Inherited loans are defined as loans that were transferred from the previous monobank to newly
established commercial banks in 1991 plus accrued interest arrears since transfer until December 31,
1993. Directed loans are defined as all loans that were granted by commercial banks on the basis of a
Cabinet decision, or extended under Government decrees, resolutions, or letters prior to June 30, 1994.
Interest arrears on directed loans are calculated until September 1, 1994 on the basis of a 8/94 BOM
decree that stipulates the transfer of past due interest on doubtful/bad loans to off balance sheet accounts.



- 7 -
its breakup. In 1996, BOM issued regulations requiring the five largest banks to separate
the portfolio of inherited/directed loans from their balance sheets.
17.   The banking system has a poor loan recovery record. This is due to many factors,
including a lack of commitment by banks' top management; a shortage of experienced
personnel to work out bad debts with defaulting borrowers; insufficient coordination
among government agencies concerned; and inadequacies in the legal framework. In
September 1996, the Prime Minister issued a decree (No. 102) ordering the repayment of
all arrears to commercial banks and state-owned entities. This decree established an
inter-ministerial working group, headed by the Minister of Justice. The group is charged
with initiating rapid court action against defaulters, seizing collateral, and publishing lists
of defaulters in the mass media. Early indications suggest large amounts of outstanding
nonperforming loans have been recovered, primarily from small-scale defaulters; but it is
unlikely to be effective in recovering arrears from large borrowers.
18.   Current State of the Banking System.  The banking system as a whole is
illiquid and has deteriorated to the point of insolvency in 1996 (see Annex 2 for a detailed
sector description). Only one bank was able to maintain adequate reserves with BOM;
while illiquid banks have had to rely increasingly on BOM funding. Attempts to tackle
the crisis in the summer of 1996, by closing one small bank and putting one large bank
into conservatorship, ran into difficulties; initially with runs on some of the banks and
ultimately with the conservator being withdrawn from the large bank and control restored
to the former owners. On December 13, 1996, the Government successfully closed the
two large insolvent banks. The closing operation was extensive and complex, but well
organized and executed.
19.   IMF/ADB/IDA Support. The IMF, ADB and IDA have provided sector-specific
technical assistance under the auspices of the Government's Financial Sector Technical
Assistance (FSTA) Program since 1992. The IMF has been providing extensive advisory
assistance in support of macroeconomic and financial sector development. Throughout
1995-96, ADB and IDA have jointly engaged in activities to develop appropriate
guidelines for loan classification, to develop specific policies and procedures for
resolving the nonperforming loans, and to introduce systematic reviews of commercial
banks as a means of determining their viability. IDA undertook reviews and audits of
several commercial banks, and a Legal Diagnostic on commercial banking regulations
and enforcement procedures. ADB provided assistance to individual commercial banks
to develop restructuring and business plans.'
4The restructuring plans include: (a) halting dividend payments; (b) downsizing the labor force; (c)
reducing wages and bonuses in real terms; (d) downsizing the branch network; (e) introducing
management information systems; (f) introducing new credit approval procedures and handbooks; (g)
introducing new services and products; and (h) improving loan collection practices.



-8 -
20.   IDA has held discussions with the authorities over the past two years on a strategy
to restructure the Mongolian banking system. A draft bank restructuring strategy was
developed by IDA in February 1996, in concert with BOM. In May 1996, IDA, ADB and
BOM agreed on a coordinated approach. ADB, with its $35 million Financial Sector
Program Loan (FSPL), took the lead in financing the bank restructuring/recapitalization
plan. ADB also provided some $3 million in loan and $2 million in grant technical
assistance to the banking system to develop commercial banking skills and to the central
bank to support banking supervision. IDA, on the other hand, will complement ADB's
efforts, focusing on restructuring a select group of large defaulting enterprises that most
affect commercial bank performance and viability, and continue to provide advice on
banking issues.
21.   In September 1996, faced with falling public confidence in the banking system,
the newly elected Prime Minister called a joint meeting attended by the IMF, ADB and
IDA. The Prime Minister requested the coordination of all three international financial
institutions in developing a single bank restructuring strategy that can be enacted rapidly.
The Government, with the assistance of the IMF, developed a comprehensive bank
restructuring strategy in November 1996. This restructuring plan was discussed and
agreed upon by the Mongolian authorities and all three IFIs, and the first stages of the
plan have been implemented.
22.   Bank Restructuring Strategy. The bank restructuring strategy developed by the
Mongolian authorities entail six steps to ensure that, by the end of 1998, all banks comply
with specific capital adequacy ratios.5 The first four steps of this strategy have already
been implemented. First, in December 1996, the two large, insolvent banks (People's
Bank and Insurance Bank) were liquidated, and the senior management of these banks
replaced.   Simultaneously, a Mongolian Asset Recovery Agency (MARA) was
established, with funding from the Government to purchase the nonperforming assets of
the two liquidated banks. Second, the performing assets of these insolvent banks were
transferred to two new institutions, a Savings Bank, that is permitted to invest only in
secure assets, and a Reconstruction Bank, that is restricted to providing banking services
to enterprises that had deposits in the failed banks. In line with the new Banking Law
(1996), all household deposits were fully protected and rapidly transferred to the Savings
Bank.   Non-household claims were partially protected and transferred to the
Reconstruction Bank. Third, all nonperforming inherited and directed loans that were
removed from commercial banks' balance sheets were replaced by interest-bearing
government bonds. An amount of Tug 16 billion is included in the 1997 budget to meet
the estimated interest costs. Fourth, Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) were signed
between the BOM and the owners and senior management of the two other large banks
(Agriculture Bank and Investment and Technological Innovation Bank) facing
5
Under the ADB FSPL, commercial banks must meet a 2 percent Basle Agreement-based risk-weighted
capital adequacy ratio by the end of 1998.



- 9 -
difficulties, which set out actions and conditions for their rehabilitation, and which
contain criteria under which progress toward their rehabilitation will be monitored.
23.   The two remaining actions will be implemented in the second half of 1997. The
first action requires establishing a Credit Information Bureau (CIB) that will register
defaulting borrowers. The CIB will help commercial banks to refrain from extending any
new credit to defaulting borrowers. To complement this measure, banks will be required
to adopt vigorous loan recovery measures. And the second action is to require external
audits of each of the three remaining large banks based on international accounting
standards. ADB technical assistance will finance these audits. The aim of the audits will
be to produce and maintain for each bank a set of true financial statements, including a
balance sheet to measure solvency, a statement of income to assess profitability and
viability, and a cash flow analysis to appraise liquidity generating capacity. BOM will
also introduce general measures to increase confidence in the survivor institutions-such
as, enhancing supervisory standards, enforcing prudential requirements, and increasing
transparency of banks' financial position. These measures will demonstrate the resolve of
the authorities not to see a recurrence of banking problems, and should at once add to
public confidence in the banking sector.
24.   Bank Recapitalization. Bank restructuring generally requires that nonperforming
assets be identified and stripped out, that the bank be recapitalized, and that the
restructured bank be completely viable. This objective can be met by swapping non-
earning assets on the balance sheet with interest-bearing government bonds. This
indirectly recapitalizes the bank and provides an earning stream. The Government has
taken responsibility for the inherited and directed loans, and has replaced the principal
and interest accrued on these loans with government bonds. In addition, the Government
has taken over the nonperforming loans of the two failed banks, substituted them with
government bonds, and placed them in MARA. By removing the nonperforming loans
from the balance sheet of individual banks, the Government immediately and
significantly improved the asset quality of the banking system. Funds from ADB's FSPL
were used for this purpose.
25.   Constraints and Required Assistance. Although the closing operation was a
success, the extent of restructuring needed in the banking system, including the
immediate need to manage successor institutions, would strain even the most experienced
financial authorities. In Mongolia, it will test the authorities' capabilities to the utmost.
The overriding concern at present is how to nurture a fragile post-restructuring banking
system into a sound market-based one capable of mobilizing and allocating resources
efficiently for economic growth. The ultimate goal is to see the development of a
privately-owned banking system, with foreign participation and competition.  This
process promises to be lengthy, requiring skills development on a whole host of fronts.
The objectives of BESAC are therefore focused on achievable targets that adds value to
the long-termn transition goals. In this regard, IDA will support the implementation of the
overall bank restructuring strategy and focus on commercial bank loan recovery efforts
pertaining to enterprises. IDA will also assist in a bank twinning exercise to introduce



- 10-
international banking practices and eventually foreign bank participation in the sector.
ADB will provide support to develop commercial banking skills for all banks and support
to BOM in banking supervision.
26.   ADB Financial Sector Program  Loan.  ADB's FSPL will finance the
recapitalization of the banking sector. ADB assistance to the sector is a bottom-up
approach that focuses on developing skills in individual commercial banks. ADB will
provide foreign experts for on-the-job training in credit underwriting, loan
documentation, syndication, monitoring and recovery, and asset-liability management.
ADB will also assist commercial banks to upgrade their computer hardware and software
and train their staff in the use of integrated banking computer systems. ADB will provide
TA for external audits of banks, and will provide TA to the BOM's banking supervision
department. The banking supervisor's on-site examination capacity needs to be further
developed so that problem banks are supervised quarterly rather than annually. Banking
supervision needs to be extended to more branches to examine and verify data, evaluate
asset quality, appraise management, and determine compliance with internal policies.
Progress is also warranted in the quality of the reported data to strengthen enforcement
and accuracy of the reports.
27.   The Focus of IDA Support in the Banking Sector. IDA assistance to the
banking sector will focus on putting in place the right incentives for banks to initiate debt
recovery, and the right institutions and culture that place a premium on repayment and
impose strong penalties for non-repayment. Within this context, BESAC has three core
components that complement the ADB FSPL. First, BESAC will support the bank
restructuring strategy agreed between the Government, IMF, ADB, and IDA.
Monitorable indicators for this component, such as, liquidation the two insolvent banks;
establishing MAfRA, the Savings Bank and the Reconstruction Bank; specifically
earmarking Tg 16 billion in the 1997 budget to finance the bank restructuring exercise,
are upfront measures that have been implemented prior to Board presentation. Second,
BESAC will support loan recovery efforts by the Government, through MARA, and by
commercial banks, through the development of a debt workout unit (DWU) in the Trade
and Development Bank. The DWIJ program will develop a core group of debt workout
specialist in the banks themselves, demonstrate the benefits of bank-led enterprise
restructuring, and, by the end of the project period, jump start more wide-spread
restructuring in the rest of the economy. BELTAC will also support the development of
ancillary services, especially the collateral regime, the bankruptcy/liquidation process,
and judicial support for debt recovery. And third, BESAC will assist the authorities in
halting the flow of loans to defaulting borrowers. These measures are designed to ensure
that the surviving banks remain healthy, and will be monitored continuously during the
course of project implementation.
28.  (a) Bank Restructuring. The first stages of the restructuring plan are already
under implementation. As noted earlier, the Government successfully closed People's
and Insurance Banks, without experiencing immediate depositor runs or significant
exchange rate depreciation. The Government has agreed on the financing modalities for



- 11 -
the restructuring exercise, in particular the means of payment of the capitalization of the
successor institutions, and has issued Tg 35 billion in bonds to finance the operation. It
has submitted a revised 1997 budget to Parliament, with Tg 16 billion allocated for the
interest payments on the bank restructuring bonds. Advisory assistance to implement the
restructuring program has, and will be provided by IDA, EDI, IMF, ADB, and USAID.
IMF and USAID-financed FDIC advisors were in Mongolia to advise and oversee the
closing operation. The Government has established the Mongolia Asset Recovery
Agency, and has licensed the Savings Bank, and the Reconstruction Bank. ADB will
field short and long-term advisors to the Savings Bank, the Reconstruction Bank and
BOM to assist this process in early 1997. The IMF will send experts in the field of
monetary management and payment system in mid-1997, once the banking system is
stabilized.
29.  IDA will support the implementation of the agreed bank restructuring measures.
Prior to Board presentation, the Government has already: (a) placed People 's Bank and
Insurance Bank under receivership, (b) established and licensed the Savings Bank and
the Reconstruction Bank; and (c) submitted the 1997 budget to Parliament with Tg 16
billion specifically earmarked to finance the bank restructuring exercise.
30.   (b) Loan Recovery Efforts: Mongolia Asset Recovery Agency (MARA). MARA
was established as part of the bank restructuring exercise in December 1996. The stated
goal of MARA is to recover 90 percent of the nonperforming assets that were transferred
to it within the next three years. For now, MARA is concentrating on reviewing piles of
loan documents, categorizing each loan (by size, borrower, and origin) and classifying
them based on recovery potential. The majority of MARA's assets (about 70 percent) are
defaulted small to medium-sized loans to individuals, used primarily for service, trade,
and agriculture-related activities. The remaining MARA assets are defaulted loans to
enterprises for large investment projects that will require extensive loan workout.
31.   MARA has begun its loan recovery operations, with modest success. Future
success will depend on support from the judiciary and enforcement agencies to allow
MARA effective use of all legal course of action available to it. In the coming months,
MARA will consider a Bulk Sales Program for modest-sized loans to expedite the
liquidation process and to build a cadre of investors interested in acquiring government-
owned bank assets. This program will attempt to sell weak and poor quality loans to
investors other than commercial banks at substantial discount. After completion of the
Bulk Sales Program, MARA will consider delegating its debt recovery activities to other
institutions, especially commercial banks. Contractual servicing arrangements for loan
recovery could be considered between the banks and MARA.
32.   MARA will have a finite lifespan of three years, after which its functions are
expected to be fully integrated into loan workout departments of commercial banks.
Through MARA, the Government will also examine ways to develop a secondary market
for debt, allowing any bank or institution to purchase the nonperforming loans, and
aggressively initiate loan recovery efforts. Emphasis will be placed on assisting MARA



- 12 -
to sell or otherwise transfer the carved out loans back to existing banks, to be handled
there through workouts, foreclosures, or liquidations. In the final analysis, commercial
bankers are probably better suited to collect problem loans, and scare loan workout and
collection expertise should be kept in the banking system. Banks need to collect their
own assets and be responsible for their own lending decisions.
33.   The Government has already established MARA.  It was agreed during
negotiations that, as a condition of Credit Effectiveness, the Government will provide
A4RA with powers and responsibilities acceptable to IDA. The charter of MARA will
clearly stipulate the mandate and operating principles of MARA. The Government will
confirm the full support of the judiciary and enforcement agencies to assist the loan
recovery efforts of MARA.
34.   External Factors Related to Loan Recovery. To aggressively pursue loans, the
authorities must address several external factors. These include: A legal environment
that does provides adequate and impartial enforcement of contractual agreements and
support to lenders of seizures and liquidation of collateral duly pledged in support of
defaulted loans, and an unwillingness on the part of the banks to use this process. A good
Credit Information System that can protect banks from extending credit to proven
defaulters. An auditing environment that allow auditors to test the value of risk assets
and force the bank to provide adequate reserves against potential credit losses. A tax
environment that allows the write-off of loans when no reasonable prospect of recovery
exists. And a prudential supervision system that monitors the portfolio quality of
commercial banks.  These measures are being supported by TA  from  the donor
community as well as through IDA's proposed BELTAC.
35.   (c) Debt workout unit in the Trade and Development Bank. In most market
economies, banks play a central role in forcing enterprises to restructure and/or close,
either utilizing in-court processes under the insolvency law or out-of-court debt
restructuring mechanisms. In many market economies, debt work-out units in banks are
the major driving force behind enterprise restructuring/liquidation.  The bank-led
restructuring example in Poland is an interesting case in point. The objective of the
Polish bank conciliation process was to restructure, under the bank's command, a group
of financially troubled enterprises. Throughout this process, problem Polish debtors tried
to negotiate a reduction in immediate debt service requirements as a means to keep their
firm alive. In return, banks insisted upon partial payments, upon equity stakes, or upon
fundamental changes in the size and functioning of the firm in order to increase their
chances of future repayment of the remaining debt. The Polish bank reconciliation
process has received wide acclaim, both in terms of initiating enterprise reform as well as
improving the banking system's loan recovery efforts. One of the main objective of the
banking component of BESAC is to develop such debt workout capacities in Mongolia.
36.   BESAC will assist in the operations of a debt workout unit in the T&D bank.
Initially, this unit will focus on the restructuring/liquidation of four private enterprises
which are amongst its worst defaulters. These four enterprises, which include three



- 13 -
carpet factories and one textile enterprise, together have loans outstanding of Tg 9 billion,
all of which are in arrears. For three of these enterprises, T&D bank is the sole creditor;
while the other enterprise has some loans outstanding to the Peoples' bank. These loans
amount to 74 percent of T&D bank's total loans outstanding. Successful restructuring
/liquidation of these loans will illustrate the benefits of debt work-outs and other forms of
passive restructuring. Lessons learnt from this exercise can be used to fine-tune the legal
and institutional framework to facilitate future workouts, and the skills acquired can be
transmitted both within and outside T&D bank to deal with similar restructuring
problems.
37.    The T&D bank will exercise its creditor rights on the enterprises to drive the
restructuring/liquidation exercise. If any of the four selected enterprises refuse to go
through the workout, liquidation proceedings will be initiated against them. Technical
assistance will be provided to the T&D bank under BELTAC to carry out viability
assessments of the enterprises, and on that basis, draw up restructuring plans for
enterprises deemed potentially viable and liquidation plans for those deemed non-viable.
The restructuring plans will include financial restructuring and other forms of passive
restructuring, such as selling off peripheral assets, which may restore viability and
improve cash-flow. Once the passive restructuring plan is drawn up, the T&D bank and
the enterprise will have to agree to a financial work-out plan which will stipulate a
particular loan repayment schedule. Failure to reach this agreement, or to subsequently
meet the debt-service obligations specified in the agreement, will trigger liquidation
proceedings against the enterprise. These enterprises will only receive working capital
loans from the T&D bank. The budget will only finance the severance payments for any
workers retrenched under the agreed passive restructuring plans.
38.    Prior to Board presentation, the Trade &  Development Bank has already
established a debt workout unit.  The newly established DWU will ensure that its
operations are overseen by a Director-level manager and supported by four full-time
T&D bank staff As part of the Government's medium-term reform program, by the end
of 1997, the DWU in the T&D bank will have completed the viability assessments of the
four selected enterprises. Upon completion of the viability assessments, restructuring
/liquidation will commence for allfour companies by early 1998. In case restructuring/
liquidation is carried out through the courts, some flexibility may be required with
respect to the completion dates to enable the judicial process to run its course. Barring
any court related delays, the debt workout for the four selected enterprises will be
completed by the end of 1998.
6The four largest defaulters are fully-private enterprises that are incapable or unwilling to service a total of
Tg 9 billion in past due loans made to them prior to their privatization. Portions of these loans were on-
lent from a government guaranteed foreign commercial bank loan, and thus represent a contingent liability
to the government budget. However, much of the nonperforming loans were rolled-over by T&D bank,
and new loans issued to the four defaulting borrowers, that distinguishing the government-directed portion
from the bank own-made loan has become difficult.



- 14 -
39.   (c) Halting the Flow of Loans to Defaulting Borrowers. The Government has
already stopped all directed lending through the banks. The cessation of directed lending
by commercial banks will be consistently enforced, and monitored through regular
commercial bank reports to BOM and through off-site examinations. If the Government
deems it necessary to lend to noncreditworthy public enterprises for policy reasons, such
lending will be done from the budget, on commercial terms, and be approved though the
regular budget process.
7
40.   BOM has already taken action to stop all bank lending to defaulting borrowers.
A mechanism for reporting defaulters is already in place at the BOM-commercial banks
are required to submit a list of their ten largest defaulter monthly to the BOM. In this
connection, BOM has already instructed individual banks to stop lending to defaulters.
Prior to Board presentation, BOM has issued a Central Bank Regulation requiring all
commercial banks to report on a monthly basis their ten largest outstanding loans. As a
condition for Credit Effectiveness, BOM will establish a Credit Information Bureau
consolidating periodic reports from all commercial banks of borrowers in default. The
Credit Information Bureau (CIB) will enable banks to determine if any borrower is in
default to a third bank. The CIB will list all defaulters, and banks will be encouraged not
to lend to anyone appearing on the list. As part of the Government's medium-term reform
program, by the end of 1998, the CIB located in the BOM will be moved to an
organization independent of the BOM, and placed permanently in those quarters.
41.   Eventual Structure of the Banking System. The Government has singled out a
few select banks for financial and technical assistance. In addition, the Government has
established a "safe" bank, primarily collecting household deposits and investing only in
safe assets such as government obligations and central bank bills. The bank restructuring
strategy aims at establishing a few reliable banks early in the reform process. The two
other large banks (Agriculture and ITI banks) have signed agreements with the BOM,
specifying actions and conditions for their rehabilitation that will be monitored on a
quarterly basis. For the remaining banks, that is, the eight small banks that combined
control less than 10 percent of the total deposits and loans of the banking system, the
authorities will strictly monitor their performance through prudential norms and
regulations, and regular on- and off-site inspections.  Banks that fail to adhere to
prudential norms and/or rehabilitation conditions will have their licenses revoked, face
penalty payments, be forced to change their management, and, in the worse case, face
liquidation. The goal is to reduce the banking system to a core set of healthy and
financial viable banks through attrition and market-induced mergers and acquisitions. In
the interim, the presence of a few reliable institutions and the protection of the payments
system from bank failures should help restore public confidence and allow the authorities
7
Defaulters are defined on the basis of payment delinquency. Any borrower that has failed to service its
principal and interest payment obligations, and is in possession of overdue loans of over 12 months, is
defined to be a defaulter.



- 15 -
to remove, or at least reduce, the implicit deposit insurance now provided to the banking
system.
42.   The bank restructuring program eventually seeks to privatize the large state- and
public enterprise-owned banks. However, privatization of large state banks through cash
sales has been rare in most transition countries. In Mongolia, privatizing these large
banks will be difficult for both political and economic reasons. Political concerns usually
complicate the pricing and methods of sales, particularly to foreign buyers. Moreover,
foreign banks have shown little interest in acquiring these banks because of difficulties in
evaluating their loan portfolios and integrating them  with their own system.  The
potential for cash sales to domestic investors is also limited because local capital markets
lack depth and expertise.  Given these constraints, the authorities will focus on
establishing a few reliable banks early in the transition process, consolidate the number of
banks through attrition and market-induced mergers and acquisitions, and initiate bank
twinning arrangements to facilitate future entry by foreign commercial banks in the
domestic market. The bank restructuring strategy will eventually seeks to privatize all state-
owned banks. The ultimate goal is to see the development of a privately-owned banking system,
with foreign participation and competition. As part of the Government's medium-term
reform program, by July 1998, the Government will prepare a privatization plan that seeks
to privatize all state-owned banks.
B. ENTERPRISE SECTOR REFORMS
43.   Banking reforms will be ineffective and unsustainable without comprehensive
reforms in the enterprise sector where most of the important clients of the banks are
located.  Enterprise reforms should facilitate liquidation of non-viable enterprises,
restructuring of potentially viable ones, efficient functioning of existing viable
enterprises, and entry of new enterprises. For these goals to be achieved, actions are
required on several fronts.  These include: (a) privatize and improve governance
structures, (b) impose hard budget constraints on enterprises, and (c) restructure or
liquidate enterprises that are not financially or economically viable. These reforms will
require changes in the legal framework, improvements in the capacity to enforce legal
actions, and institutional development in banks and various government agencies.
44.   Background. Privatization was a key element of the previous Government's
economic reform program. Considerable progress was made in transferring assets from
public ownership and in fostering the development of a private sector, especially small
and medium enterprises. However, privatization of large enterprises in Mongolia has
been partial and, in most cases, private participation does not exceed 49 percent. The
privately owned shares are held by extremely diffused shareholders scattered throughout
the country. Public enterprises are pervasive in Mongolia's economy, despite substantial
privatization and new  entry of private firms.  Some sectors of the economy are
completely dominated by public enterprises, while others have significant public
enterprise presence. The privatization process has not resulted in improved governance
and/or commercially-oriented behavior even for fully privatized firms. Many enterprises



- 16 -
are burdened by old policy-induced distortions-especially inherited/directed loans that
they are unable to repay. Public enterprises, on aggregate, earned profits, but the profits
were highly concentrated-the top five enterprises accounted for 86 percent of total
profits in 1995. Given the weak accounting framework and the inadequate treatment of
depreciation in most public enterprises, true overall public enterprise profits are most
likely smaller and may even be negative. Public enterprises also absorb a sizable amount
of budgetary resources, both explicitly and implicitly.
45.   Soft budget constraints have been a major factor inhibiting enterprise reforms in
Mongolia. Public enterprises have received substantial amounts of preferential credit
from the banking sector. They were the main recipients of the inherited/directed loans
from the commercial banking system. Soft budget constraints originate not only from the
banking sector, but also from the government budget. Budgetary subsidies to public
enterprises are large, growing and becoming less transparent over time. Direct transfers,
which had traditionally been the major source of financing for public enterprises, have
decreased; however, indirect subsidies, arising from provision of goverrnment loans at
negligible interest rates and lax enforcement of loan-repayment obligations, have
increased substantially in recent years. Capital grants to public enterprises have also
increased. The aggregate of direct transfers plus indirect subsidies have risen from 5.3
percent of GDP in 1993 to 7.4 percent of GDP in 1995. The opportunity cost of such
subsidies is high. Total subsidies exceed government spending in priority areas, such as
education, health or social security and welfare. In addition, public enterprises have tax
arrears to the budget that increased from 8 percent of taxes due in 1994 to 40 percent in
1995 (see Annex 3 for a detailed sector description).
46.   The Second-Phase Privatization Program. In response to these concerns, the
new Government has pledged a more comprehensive privatization program which aims to
increase both the number of privatized entities and the volume of receipts from the
process. The program will include the sale of some of the country's largest and strategic
enterprises, such as, Gobi cashmere, gold mines, and major flour mills. As part of the
medium-term reform program, the Government will prepare a privatization program for
all state-owned enterprises by July 1, 1997. This program will also reduce Government
ownership share in already privatized entities. In addition, a joint Parliamentary and
Government Working Group has been established specifically to deal with the issue of
housing privatization.
47.   The new  cash privatization program, with its more compressed schedule,
highlights a number of issues and problems that will need to be addressed quickly to
ensure the program meets expectations. Most prominently, these include a lack of
a
See World Bank, Mongolia: Public Enterprise Review-Halfway through Reforms. October, 1996.
9
See World Bank/Danish trust funds-financed consultant report, The Financing of Public Enterprises in
Mongolia. August, 1996.



- 17 -
transparency in the existing privatization process and the speed of the new program, both
of which increase the possibility of abuse.'0 It is important to ensure that the privatized
enterprises acquire a governance structure which is conducive to efficient functioning of
these enterprises. A major drawback of the previous mass voucher-based privatization
program was that it did not lead to any improvements in the governance structures. The
Government should do more to consolidate ownership, to help establish clear lines of
authority and accountability of actions, to actively support secondary trading of shares,
and to seek foreign participation in the cash privatization process. In addition, there is a
need for public education and consultation to ensure stakeholder approval and
participation, particularly at the aimag level; for clarification of the legal framework to
promote investor confidence, including potential foreign investors; and for improving the
process of valuation.
48.   The Government needs to improve governance structures in remaining public
enterprises. The Government intends to maintain full ownership of about 20 enterprises,
including public utilities and infrastructure enterprises. Dealing with the drain on public
resources that these enterprises represent is a priority for Government, and strengthening
corporate governance is an important first step in reforming these entities. Consideration
should be given to corporatizing all remaining public enterprises under the Partnership
and Companies Law of 1995. In addition, public enterprise ownership could be separated
formally from  regulatory authorities and the line ministries.  Experience elsewhere
suggests that improvements in the infrastructure enterprises require private sector
involvement, if not immediately as full owners, then as managers, financiers and
concessionaires.
49.   The Focus of IDA Support in the Enterprise Sector. IDA will support the
implementation of enterprise reforms that complement the bank restructuring strategy.
BESAC will focus on: (a) the imposition of hard budget constraints on all public
enterprises; and (b) the passive restructuring/liquidation of enterprises on three fronts:
First, restructuring or liquidation of two large state-owned enterprises to be overseen by
the State Property Committee; second, restructuring or liquidation of four private
enterprises to be driven by a newly-created debt work-out unit in the T&D bank; and
third, initiating liquidation and asset recovery for a large number of enterprises to be
carried out by the newly-created MARA.
50.   (a) Harden Budget Constraints: A key element of the Government's banking
reform strategy is to exclude defaulting enterprises from further bank lending. To survive
without bank lending and the subsidy implicit in the tolerance of default on this lending,
these enterprises will be forced to turn to the budget. This is likely to impose a
significant burden on the budget-greater than what it can bear-and it is neither
10A well-sequenced enterprise reform strategy corporatizes (to improve accountability) and commercializes
(to introduce better governance) state enterprises prior to and concomitant with privatization to ensure
maximum gains to the state, and, at minimum, is transparent to all parties concerned.



- 18-
sustainable nor desirable. Soft budget constraints impede enterprise reforms and prevent
reforms already undertaken from having their full impact. Imposition of hard budget
constraints from budgetary sources on the enterprise sector is thus of paramount
importance.
51.   The 1997 budget has current expenditures for social sector enterprises (schools,
hospitals, etc.), and a separate memorandum item for severance and pension payments to
civil servants and retrenched enterprise laborer. Budgetary credit allocations for long
term infrastructure projects and lending to the energy sector (electricity and heat) are also
included in the 1997 budget under capital expenditures. Subsidies to public enterprises
are an explicit line item, and specific to public enterprises in urban transport. Net lending
from the budget also specifies the two public enterprise selected as part of the BESAC
program. Prior to Board presentation, the Government, specifically, the Ministry of
Finance, has: (a) eliminated subsidies to all types of enterprises, starting from the 1997,
with the exception for urban transport enterprises which will be limited to Tg 455 million
in 1997, Tg 600 million in 1998, and Tg 700 million in 1999, and (b) stopped all new
MOF loans to enterprises starting from the 1997 budget, except to enterprises in
electricity and heating. MOF loans to these enterprises will be given at two points below
the Central Bank bills rate in 1997. As part of the medium-term reform program,
Government loans to enterprises in electricity in heating will be given at the Central
Bank bills rate in 1998, and at market rates by 1998. Moreover, the Government will
reduce the level of arrears in enterprise loan repayments to the budget to 25 percent of
loans outstanding by end of 199 7, to 10 percent by end of 1998, and to 0 percent by the
end of 1999.
52.   (b) Enterprise Restructuring: Many enterprises currently defaulting on their debt-
service obligations are potentially viable and may generate sufficient cash flows to
service their debts once appropriately restructured. This restructuring may be 'active',
involving new investments, or 'passive', involving changes that do not require new
investment, such as financial, organizational and management restructuring. Passive
restructuring may be sufficient to restore viability in many enterprises; for others, passive
restructuring may facilitate financing of active restructuring.  Despite its potential
benefits, there has been very little restructuring in Mongolian enterprises so far. This is
due to a number of factors: (a) lack of modern corporate incentives-inappropriate
governance structures; insufficient competition from domestic and foreign sources; soft
budget constraints; extremely diffused ownership and "insider" control; and absence of
penalties on creditors, such as banks, for making bad loans; (b) lack of technical
knowledge-enterprises lack the technical ability to carry out proper viability
assessments and draw up restructuring plans; and (c) inadequacies in the legal framework,
particularly in the area of bankruptcy. Thus, there is good justification for a program
which could jump-start this process in Mongolia. BESAC is designed to passively
restructure or liquidate six select enterprises to jump-start more wide-spread restructuring
in the rest of the economy.



- 19-
53.    The chief criterion for selection of enterprises is amount of defaults to banks."
All selected enterprises, especially the private ones, have significant arrears to the
banking system. The two state-owned enterprises also have significant budgetary arrears.
The combined defaulted loans of the six selected enterprises account for about a third of
all past due loans and about 15 percent of total loans outstanding to the banking system.
Arrears of the four private enterprises to T&D bank alone represent 43 percent of T&D
bank's total loans outstanding. The total past due debt obligations of these six enterprises
amount to more than Tg 12 billion. Table 1 shows the principal and interest past due for
the six selected enterprises.
TABLE 1: SELECTED ENTERPRISES AND THEIR LEVEL OF DEFAULTS
(in Tg million)
Outstanding                    Directed/
Principal    Past Due  Past Due  Inherited  Owner-
Bank                Borrower's Name     Balance     Principal  Interest   Portion   ship
People's            Bagahangai Meat       1,159.6    1,159.6      0.0       0.0  state
ITI, T&D, Insurance  Darkhan Minimetal    1,828.2    1,828.2  1,096.3   1,828.2  state
Trade & Dev.        Erdenet Carpet Co.    4,526.6    4,526.6  1,092.0     423.9  private
Trade & Dev.        Domod Carpet Co.      2,068.2    2,068.2    695.6     193.2  private
T&D, People's       UB Carpet Co.         1,744.3    1,744.3    384.1      138.5  private
Trade & Dev.        Eermel Textile Co.     745.5       745.5      0.0     745.5  private
Total                                 12,072.4   12,072.4  3,268.0   3,329.3
54.    Restructuring/Liquidation of Two State-owned Enterprises. The SPC, exercising
its ownership rights on behalf of the Government, will initiate work-out exercises for two
large, state-owned enterprises, the Darkhan Mini-metal plant and the Bagahangai Meat
Processing plant. These two enterprises are among the largest defaulters to the banking
sector with total loans outstanding of Tg 3 billion, all of which is in arrears. On entry
into the restructuring/liquidation program, the enterprises will be isolated from the
banking sector and other financiers (such as other enterprises) and the budget will become
the sole source of financing. As with the private enterprises to be dealt with by the debt
work-out unit of the T&D bank, viability assessments will be carried out of the
enterprises and on the basis of these, either a restructuring or a liquidation plan will be
drawn up. The restructuring plan will only cover passive restructuring measures, the
implementation of which will be financed through the budget. It will be a time-bound
'The restructuring program excludes enterprises that are: (a) large joint-ventures with foreign investors
(e.g., Erdenet, Mongol Railways, Mongol Telecom); (b) already undergoing restructuring, in some cases
through IDA and ADB projects (e.g., Baganuur Coal Mine, Civil Aviation Authority); (c) large utilities
and monopolies (e.g., the Central Energy System); and (d) good candidates for privatization without
restructuring (e.g., Gobi Cashmere).



- 20 -
program to be completed within 18 months. The enterprise will be expected to achieve a
positive operating surplus for two consecutive months within this period, failing which it
will be liquidated. If it achieves operating surpluses within this period, it will come out
of isolation and go back to commercial sources of financing.
55.   The cost of the financial restructuring/liquidation of these enterprises will be
borne by the budget which will provide working capital loans during the isolation period,
and subsidies to pay for the social costs, mainly severance payments. A total of Tg 2.5
billion will be allocated in the 1997 and 1998 budget for this purpose. The Darkhan
Mini-metal plant isolation exercise alone would cost about Tg 2 billion. All other costs
including provisions for severance and related social security payments for retrenched
workers, amount to about Tg 500 million. These loans will be given subject to successful
implementation of restructuring plans, and will not exceed Tug 2.5 billion in 1997 and
1998 combined.
56.   As part of the Government's medium-term reform program, by the end of 1997,
viability assessments for Darkhan Minimetal and Bagahangai Meat plans will be
completed; by early 1998, the restructuring/liquidation plans of the two enterprises will
have been approved; and by the end of 1998, the restructuring/liquidation exercise for
the two enterprises will have been completed.
C. SOCIAL IMPACT OF BANKING AND ENTERPRISE REFORM
57.   Bank Restructuring. The overall bank restructuring exercise will have an impact
on society because of the significant role of the banking sector in the economy.
Commercial banks provide services to about 30 percent of the total population. All
government salaries and government transactions are distributed through the banking
system. And pension and welfare benefits to over 300,000 individuals are delivered
through the banking system. It is estimated that the consolidation and restructuring of the
two large banks will result in a net decrease of about 600 jobs over a three-year period.
The proposed program, however, is a corrective measure to restructure a banking system
on the verge of collapse. Without the program, over 4,000 jobs in the banking sector, the
savings of about 700,000 individual depositors, payment of pensions and social
allowances to vulnerable groups, and all government transactions would be at stake. To
ensure the social impact of the program remains neutral, the banking system should
maintain its presence in the rural somon centers to ensure the delivery of social safety net
provisions to the rural population. Household depositors should not be adversely affected
by the liquidation process as the Government will fully cover their deposits. Throughout
the process, the Government must ensure that steps are taken to preserve public
confidence in the banking system.
58.   Enterprise Restructuring. Despite significant retrenchment of labor in recent
years, many employees still remain on the books of the enterprises, even if they are not
paid.  Many employees who are partially or fully paid are underemployed.  The
restructuring and liquidation of enterprises will lead to job losses as redundant workers



- 21 -
are retrenched. The exact extent of such retrenchment is difficult to quantify since much
will depend on the results of the viability assessment of each enterprise. Nonetheless,
some estimates of the likely degree of retrenchment can be made based on current levels
of employment and under-employment. The six enterprises to be covered by the SPC and
T&D bank-driven restructuring programs currently have about 6,000 employees on their
rosters, of which barely half are working and being paid. A possible scenario is that the
50 percent who are currently not being paid will be retrenched. This comes to about
3,000 people. Given that many of these employees have not received any payments for
several months and that most of them do not enjoy any other facilities from the
enterprises, such as housing, the impact and cost of retrenchment will be manageable,
especially if it is cushioned with severance payments. BESAC counterpart funds will be
used to provide severance payments to workers retrenched through restructuring or
liquidation of these six enterprises.  Workers losing their jobs under the bank-led
liquidation will be covered through the general social safety net provisions of the
Government.
59.   IDA Social Sector Assistance. BESAC follows IDA's FY95 Poverty Alleviation
for Vulnerable Groups Project (Credit 2760-MOG). The Poverty Alleviation Project
seeks to mitigate the adverse effects of Mongolia's economic transition on the poor
segments of the population. Specifically, the Poverty Alleviation project aims to create
gainful employment and income-generating opportunities for those adversely affected by
the transition, and complements BESAC in addressing the larger social concerns resulting
from the transition process.  The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy calls for an
additional Poverty Alleviation Project in FY98.
D. LEGAL ISSUES PERTAINING TO BANKING AND ENTERPRISE REFORM
60.   Achieving sustainable reforms in the banking and enterprise sectors will require
resolution of several constraints in the legal and regulatory environment. Banks and
enterprises have been seriously hampered by difficulties in such areas as contract
enforcement (including loan collection), secured transactions, and the failure of
bankruptcy procedures. The Government has embarked on program of legislative reform,
including redrafting of existing provisions, and development of new legislation.
61.   Through BELTAC, IDA will assist the Government in specific interventions, with
a particular emphasis on filling critical legislative gaps and improving the application and
enforcement of Mongolia's laws. In this regard, IDA will assist in the establishment and
operations of supporting institutions, such as the courts, judiciary, registry and the bailiffs
office, to ensure more effective enforcement.  Core elements of this legal reform
program, aimed specifically at supporting the process of default resolution, asset
realization and loan workout, include: (a) strengthening the bailiffs office, (b) training
legal professionals in the application of the new bankruptcy law, and (c) establishing a
registry for the registration of secured interests in movable property.



- 22 -
62.   The BOM's legal authority, including the scale and scope of remedial powers vis-
a-vis commercial banks, is detailed in the newly-enacted Central Bank and Banking Law.
As part of the Government's medium-term reform program, the BOM will review the
implementation of the Central Bank and Banking Law by mid-1998, with a view to
examining its effectiveness.
63.   To facilitate the process of restructuring and liquidation, the Government will
present a Draft Insolvency Law to the fall session of Parliament. As a condition for
Credit Effectiveness, the Government will present a Draft Insolvency Law to IDA.
E. FISCAL IMPLICATIONS OF BANKING AND ENTERPRISE REFORMS
64.   For the bank restructuring exercise, the cost to the Government comprises: (a)
initial payments to the banks to offset the effect of directed and inherited loans, (b) the
capitalization of the MARA, the Savings bank and the Reconstruction bank, (c) the pari
passu writedown of government deposits in the failed banks, (d) the recapitalization of
BOM for losses on its past lending to the failed bank, and (e) any losses incurred by
MARA if ultimate realizations are less than estimated at time of closure.  The
Government issued a total of Tg 35 billion in bonds at a variable coupon rate indexed to
the central bank bills rate to finance the bank restructuring. Tg 21 billion in government
bonds were first issued to MARA to cover the nonperforming loans of the two failed
banks. MARA sold all its bonds to the BOM, which in turn provided Tg 10 billion in
bonds to the savings bank, Tg 4.3 billion in bonds to the reconstruction bank. The
Government issued an additional Tg 8.9 billion in bonds to BOM, Tg 10.5 billion in
bonds directly to the savings bank, Tg 1.3 billion in bonds to the reconstruction bank.
This translates to Tg 16 billion in cash expenditures from the 1997 budget, consisting of
interest payments on the bonds and direct capitalization of the new banks. In addition,
starting from 1997, the Government will make cash payments of Tg 1.6 billion in 1997 to
the Agriculture bank for services rendered in distributing pensions and social services.
The estimated cost for the bank restructuring exercise in 1997 is shown in Table 2.
65.   As part of the bank restructuring strategy, the Government intends to privatize all
state-owned banks. Success of the bank privatization will not only determine the growth
prospects for the economy, but also the ultimate cost of bank restructuring exercise.
These cost are lower now than estimated in December, but they still amount to a
whopping 8.7 percent of GDP. Since the Government directly or indirectly owns these
banks, strong turnaround in these banks will increase the value of this investment, which
will eventually be recovered when the banks are privatized. The cost of the bank
restructuring exercise is reduced substantially as proceeds from the privatization is added
to government revenues. Moreover, any proceeds made from loan recovery efforts by
MARA will augment government revenues. Non-cash expenditures from the budget, that
is the government bonds issued for the bank restructuring exercise, are Government
equity stakes in state-owned banks, yielding dividends to Government in the interim.



- 23 -
Table 2: Estimated Bank Restructuring Cost to Government in 1997
(in Tg billions)     (in % of GDP)
Current Expenditures (budgetary items)                         17.6             2.6
Interest on bonds                                            16.0
Service payments to Agriculture Bank                          1.6
Non-cash transactions (excluded from budget)                   40.2              6.1
Bonds issued:                                                35.0
MARA
Savings bank                                              20.5
Reconstruction bank                                        5.6
BOM                                                        8.9
Loss of Government deposits                                   2.5
Loss of Government equity in failed banks                     2.7
TOTAL COSTS                                                    57.8              8.7
66.    The total cost of implementing the enterprise restructuring program  for the two
selected public enterprises is estimated to be about Tg 2.5 billion, comprising working
capital and social provisions. These are upfront costs to the 1997 and 1998 budget. This
assumes that once under isolation, the two selected enterprises will operate under strict
cost control measures. The enterprises will not be allowed to borrow additional funds,
other than that of the budget support during the isolation period. The majority of the
costs is to finance the working capital of Darkhan mini-metal during isolation. The social
safety net estimations are minor in comparison, about Tg 0.3 billion, that includes
severance pay to workers retrenched as a part of the isolation program. Most of the
working capital outlays are expected to be repaid by the enterprises once they exit the
restructuring exercise.   For the medium-term, the budgetary provisions for enterprise
reforms is marginal, since substantial revenue generation is expected from the
Government's cash privatization program and since much of the future enterprise
restructuring is expected to be driven by the banks themselves, through their workout
units and through the secondary market for debts. The budgetary projections for the bank
and enterprise restructuring program combines are shown in Table 3.
12
A simple assumption is made that Darkhan and Bagahangai plants are both viable and are able to repay
Tg I billion from 2001 to 2004.



- 24 -
Table 3: Budgetary projections
1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005
Expend. for Bank Restructuring
(as%ofGDP)                 2.42%  0.59%  0.52%  0.30%  0.21%  0.14%  0.08% 0.38%  0.00%
(in Tug billion)           (16.0) (4.6)  (4.6)  (3.0)  (2.4)  (1.8)  (1.2)  (0.6)  (0.0)
Expend. for Enterp. Restructuring
(as % of GDP)              0.15%  0.19%  0.00%  0.00% -0.09% -0.08% -0.07% -0.06% 0.00%
(in Tug billion)            (1.0)  (1.5)  (0.0)  (0.0)  (-1.0) (-1.0) (-1.0) (-1.0)  (0.0)
GDP (in Tug billion)          661.7  778.2  882.6 1001.1 1135.5 1281.8 1426.7 1587.9 1767.3
Total Costs
(as % of GDP)              2.57% 0.78% 0.52%  0.30% 0.12% 0.06% 0.01%  -.03%  0.0%
(in Tug billion)           (17.0) (6.1)  (4.6)  (3.0)  (1.4)  (0.8)  (0.2) (-0.4) (0.0)
67.   The fiscal impact of the combined reform program is substantial. Most of the
expenditures are one-time injections of funds that fall due in the first year of the program,
with smaller outlays in 1998 and beyond to service the interest payments on the
government bonds. The budgetary outlay in 1997 is estimated at Tg 17 billion, or about
2.57 percent of GDP; and Tg 6.1 billion in 1998, or about 0.78 percent of GDP. The
interest burden of the reform program steadily decreases. Honoring these obligations is
important for the credibility of the Government and its reforrn program.
PART IV. IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
68.   Since IDA lending to Mongolia began in late 1991, the World Bank Group's
country assistance strategy has been to support Mongolia's continued transition to a
market-oriented economy. The 1995 CAS sets out the principal criteria which would
govern future IDA  assistance.  In the short term, the strategy is to support the
Governnent's macroeconomic management capability through technical assistance and
continued policy dialogue; in the medium-term, the strategy is to support the
development of private activities and financial institutions as well as to help implement
the Government's poverty alleviation program; and, in the long term, the strategy is to
help remove infrastructure bottlenecks for sustainable growth. The CAS also outlines the
institutional and structural reform measures that are needed in the country, especially in
the banking and enterprise sectors, and these are supported by the proposed BESAC.
69.   This strategy was initially implemented through a series of quick-disbursing loans
to support institutional and policy reforms (Economic Rehabilitation Credit, Economic
Transition Support Credit, Technical Assistance Credit), and investment projects to
support the rehabilitation of key infrastructure (Transport Rehabilitation Credit, Coal
Mine Rehabilitation Credit). During this period, IDA maintained intensive dialogue with



- 25 -
the Government on required reform measures, especially in the enterprise and banking
sectors. IDA's continued dialogue with the authorities, together with its economic and
sector work (CEM; Issues on Private Sector Development; Energy Survey; Poverty
Assessment; Public Enterprise Review) provides the underpinning for the proposed
BESAC.
70.   The CAS calls for selective intervention in IDA lending to the country, designed
in coordination with the activities of other donors. Effective donor coordination is
fundamental to the IDA lending program, and BESAC is a supreme example of this
effort. The World Bank co-chairs the annual Tokyo Assistance Group Meeting for
Mongolia with the Government of Japan, and actively participates in local donor
meetings. In particular, Bank lending is designed to complement the programs of larger
donors, notably the ADB and bilateral assistance from Japan and the USA. Cooperation
with the IMF has been intense and constructive. IDA participates in all Fund ESAF
/Standby Agreement discussions with the Government.
B. LINKS WITH OTHER IDA OPERATIONS
71.   The project would be IDA's first operation in Mongolia focusing on the banking
and enterprise sectors. It builds on the experience of technical assistance programs in
macroeconomic management (Technical Assistance Credit, 2321-MOG), and in financial
sector development (Financial Sector TA, PHRD Grant). It is also IDA's first policy-
based loan to Mongolia, and its success will be a precondition for a planned follow-up
Enterprise and Private Sector Development Credit in FY98. The principal lessons
learned from previous IDA credits in Mongolia include the importance of establishing a
dedicated project implementation unit and designing a detailed implementation schedule
(including policy conditionalities) prior to effectiveness.
C. LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE
72.   The success of reforms in the enterprise sector significantly impacts the
functioning of commercial banks. IDA experience has shown that bank recapitalization
exercises that do not address the poor performance of bank borrowers inevitably lead to a
second round of capital infusion for the banks two or three years down the line. In this
regard, a number of factors are vital for the success of bank and enterprise restructuring
programs. They include: (a) high-level political commitment to the program; (b) a halt to
the flow of bad loans; (c) adequate restructuring and downsizing of banks and enterprises;
(d) sustainable financing and budgetary provisions for restructuring; (e) a strong legal and
regulatory framework to underpin banking and enterprise reform measures; and (f)
working-level capacity to implement the proposed reforms. The Government has agreed
to take into account the first five factors into BESAC, while the latter two factors provide
the rationale for BELTAC.
73.  IDA evaluations of adjustment lending, technical assistance and public enterprise
reform and privatization operations highlight three areas which have determined project
success or failure. These are: borrower ownership, reflected in high-level political



- 26 -
commitment, and working-level institutional readiness, simplicity of project design, that
is, not attempting too ambitious a range of reform measures, and realistic risk
assessment, as a function of appraisal and project supervision.  Where political
commitment and implementation capacity are weak, technical assistance is little more
than a band-aid solution. IDA experience in adjustment operations also underlines the
importance of coordination with other donors to share the burden of reforms, and limit
exposure to high-risk situations.
74.   The peaceful transfer of power made this summer, and the conclusion of local
elections held in October 1996, ensure a stable political climate in Mongolia for the next
two years. Presidential elections scheduled for the summer of 1997 should add spark to
the process, but Prime Ministerial control over Parliament will likely maintain the speed
and momentum of reforms. Moreover, implementation of an IMF Standby Agreement
should ensure a stable macroeconomic environment that is necessary for the success of
the operation.
75.   Political commitment to banking and enterprise reforms in Mongolia remains
strong at all levels of Government. At the highest level, the Prime Minister reaffirmed
and committed the support of his office and his senior economic advisor to the BESAC
project. At the grassroots level, individual enterprise managers, faced with prospects of
liquidation, are also committed to restructuring. The implementing agencies, such as the
SPC, echo the same view-the need for radical reforms to restore confidence in the
system and jump start the economy. On the banking side, MOF has allocated over Tg 16
billion in the 1997 budget to finance the bank restructuring exercise; and BOM is
expected to spearhead the restructuring. Parliament has passed an amended central bank
and banking law in September to strengthen the powers of BOM to undertake bank
restructuring; and the Government has established several working groups under MOJ to
enhance loan collection.
76.   The Government will initiate most policy actions relating to BESAC upfront. For
example, the first four steps in the bank restructuring exercise (e.g. closing down
insolvent banks, setting up MARA) have been completed, and the two remaining steps
(e.g. setting up the central registrar of defaulting borrowers and external audits of banks)
will have been initiated by the time of Board Presentation of BESAC. In addition, all 37
conditions required for the first tranche release of ADB's FSPL have been met.
77.   The design of the BESAC is modest in scope. The project consists of targeted
interventions to support commercial bank restructuring, debt recovery, and financial
restructuring of a few distressed enterprises as a demonstration effect. The policy matrix
is structured so that most of the required actions are taken prior to Board presentation.
The program of technical assistance proposed under BELTAC has been developed on the
basis of extensive consultations with local stakeholders and other donor organizations.



- 27 -
PART V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. CREDIT AMOUNT AND BORROWER
78.   The proposed IDA Credit, in the amount of SDR 7.2 million ($10 million
equivalent), will be made to the Government of Mongolia on standard IDA terms. The
Government will administer the Credit through the MOF, in close collaboration with the
BOM. Implementation of the proposed Credit will require close collaboration between
all agencies involved, particularly the MOF, BOM, MOJ, and the SPC.
79.   The Credit will provide timely and responsive support, in the form of quick-
disbursing balance of payments assistance, for efforts being undertaken by the
Government to reform the banking and enterprise sectors. This Credit is part of a
coordinated donor response to the assistance needs of Mongolia, in particular with the
$35 million ADB Financial Sector Program Loan and the IMF ESAF Program.
80.   The Government's medium-term reform program is detailed in the Letter of
Development Policy and the Matrix of Key Policy Conditions (see Annex 4).
B. DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
81.   The Government will open and maintain a Deposit Account in BOM.
Disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases, and supporting evidence for
disbursements is therefore not required. No special procurement arrangements are
envisaged, since they are not required by tranche release conditions. Tranche release
review, and program supervision, will ensure that the reform programs supported under
the BESAC are carried out as agreed, including timely provision of resources by the
Borrower to meet the costs of program implementation. Upon tranche release, BOM will
submit a simplified withdrawal application to IDA, against which IDA will disburse
credit proceeds into the Deposit Account. If credit proceeds are used for ineligible
purposes, as defined in the Credit Agreement, IDA will require the Government either to
return and reallocate the amount, or to refund it directly to IDA for cancellation.
C. TRANCHE CONDITIONS
82.  It is proposed that the credit be disbursed in a single tranche in the amount of $10
million. The tranche conditions are shown in the table below. IMF Board approval of the
1997-1999 ESAF program is a key monitoring indicator for the macroeconomic credit
effectiveness condition. The Government's medium-term reform program is detailed in
the Letter of Development Policy and the Matrix of Key Policy conditions (see Annex 4).



- 28 -
Actions Already Taken          Credit Effectiveness Conditions     Medium-Term Reform Program
(prior to Board Presentation)
Macroeconomic Stabilization
* maintain a sound macroeconomic
framework, consistent with the
objectives of BESAC.
Banking Sector
* Placed People's Bank and Insur-  * Establish MARA, with powers and  * By end-1997, the DWU  in the
ance Bank under receivership.      responsibilities acceptable to IDA.  T&D bank will have completed the
* Established and licensed the Sav-  * Establish  a  Credit Information    viability assessments of the four se-
ings Bank and the Reconstruction    Bureau, consolidating periodic re-   lected enterprises.
Bank.                              ports from all commercial banks of  * By early 1998, the DWU in the
* Submitted the 1997 budget to Par-   borrowers in default.              T&D bank will commence the re-
liament with Tg 16 billion specifi-                                    structuring or liquidation plans for
cally earmarked to finance the bank                                    all four enterprises.
restructuring exercise.                                              * By end-1998, the DWU  for the
* Established a debt workout unit in                                    four selected enterprises will be
the Trade and Development Bank,                                        completed.
with its operations overseen by a                                    * By end-1998, the Credit Informa-
Director-level manager and sup-                                        tion Bureau located in the BOM
ported by four full-time T&D bank                                      will be moved to an independent
staff.                                                                 authority, and placed permanently
* Issued a Central Bank Regulation,                                      in those quarters.
requiring all commercial banks to                                    * By mid-1998, the BOM will review
report on a monthly basis their ten                                   the implementation of the Central
largest loans outstanding.                                             Bank and Banking Law, with a
view to examining its effectiveness.
By July 1998, the Government will
prepare a privatization plan that
seeks to privatize all state-owned
banks.
Enterprise Sector
* Eliminated subsidies to all enter-  * Present a Draft Insolvency Law to  * By July 1997, the Government will
prises, starting  from  the  1997    IDA.                              prepare a privatization program for
budget, with the exception for ur-                                     all state-owned enterprises.
ban transport enterprises which will                                 * By end-1997, the Government will
be limited to Tg 455 million in                                        reduce the level of arrears in enter-
1997, Tg 600 million in 1998, and                                      prise loan repayments to the budget
Tg 700 million in 1999.                                               to 25 percent of loans outstanding,
* Stopped all new  MOF loans to                                         to 10 percent by end- 1998, and to 0
enterprises starting from the 1997                                     percent by end-1999.
budget, except to enterprises in                                     * By 1998, MOF loans to enterprises
electricity and heating. MOF loans                                    in electricity in heating will be
to these enterprises will be given at                                  provided at the Central Bank bills
two points below the Central Bank                                      rate, and at market rates by 1998.
bills rate in 1997.                                                  * By end-1997, viability assessments
for  Darkhan   Minimetal  and
Bagahangai Meat plans will be
completed.
* By early 1998, the restructur-
ing/liquidation plans of the two en-
terprises will have been approved.
* By end-1998, the restructur-
ing/liquidation exercise for the two
enterprises will have been com-
pleted.



- 29 -
D. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
83.   MOF would keep full accounts on credit operations, specifically records of all
withdrawals against the Credit. These records would be updated monthly, and quarterly
statements of transactions and balances, together with necessary recommendations for
disbursements and information on claims in progress, would be forwarded to IDA. MOF
would maintain records of all transactions in accordance with sound accounting practices.
MOF would also ensure that supporting documents, the basis for statements of
expenditure, are properly maintained. IDA reserves the right to audit the Deposit
Account.
E. MONITORING ARRANGEMENTS
84.   MOF will be responsible for monitoring and implementing the program, and
establish a project implementation unit.  The proposed unit will collaborate with
dedicated officers in the BOM with regard to banking reforms and the MOJ with regard
to implementation of legal reforms. IDA will monitor implementation through periodic
reviews. Implementation of the bank restructuring plan will be jointly monitored by the
IMF, ADB and IDA. At each stage, technical assistance missions will oversee the
implementation of the restructuring plan, and review the status of project implementation.
IDA supervision missions will be coordinated to overlap with ADB missions to ensure
synergy and consistency of program objectives. Staff will advise senior management if
significant deviations occur.
F. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS
85.  In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental
Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has been placed in Category C
and does not require an environmental assessment.
G. BENEFITS AND RISKS
86.   Benefits. An economy cannot function, let alone grow and thrive, without a
healthy financial system. The proposed measures require urgent implementation to
ensure that banks are able to fulfill their roles as efficient collectors of savings, allocators
of credit, and managers of the payments system. Anticipated benefits for the banking
system of the proposed project are measurable improvements in the quality of
commercial bank intermediation, and in the legal and regulatory framework in which
banks operate. In the long term, this should enable new private enterprises to obtain
financing at competitive rates. The stronger legal and regulatory framework will help
instill greater discipline in the commercial banks, protecting their long-term solvency as
well as the interests of depositors. This discipline will, in turn, harden budget constraints
faced by enterprises. These pressures, if maintained, should foster further enterprise
reform. In addition, facilitating the debt recovery process, supported by appropriate legal
measures, will create disincentives for nonrepayment, lower transactions costs to both
borrowers and lenders, and contribute to the availability of funds for lending.



- 30-
87.   Although it will take some time before Mongolia stimulates as much creditor-led
restructuring as in established market economies, the bank-led restructuring exercise is an
important start. It will establish a framework for conciliation process that empowers
banks to negotiate workout agreements with problem debtors. Moreover, the emergence
of banks that have the resources and competence to support a wide range of business
activities (e.g. working capital loans to viable enterprises, the use of collateral, letters of
credit, export financing) will greatly benefit enterprises.
88.   Risks.  The proposed bank restructuring exercise is by no means easy to
implement. It is a bitter pill to swallow, but one that has been accepted by the Mongolian
authorities as realistic and overdue.  The biggest risk associated with this type of
adjustment operation is if the restructuring exercise is unsuccessful, and a core group of
viable banks not formed, the process may have to be repeated two or three years down the
line, requiring additional capital infusion from Government. The Government is fully
committed to these reforms and cannot afford another capitalization exercise. Moreover,
conditions in the banking system have reached a point where the cost of inaction clearly
outweighs the risk of implementing a difficult restructuring program.
89.   BESAC has been designed to focus on a narrow range of policy actions, with an
emphasis on upfront conditionality, and disbursements made in a single tranche. IDA has
indicated to the Government that any future assistance requested for the banking and
enterprise sectors, hinges on the successful outcome of the BESAC. The successful
implementation of the bank restructuring plan, and putting in place the right incentives
for banks to initiate debt recovery, will require careful monitoring and supervision. IDA,
the IMF, and ADB will have to continue close cooperation, delivering timely and
effective technical assistance, to prevent and minimize the adverse effects of
restructuring, and to establish and assist the successor institutions.
90.   The immediate constraint confronting the authorities is its limited human resource
pool to implement the financial restructuring program.  This poses a formidable
challenge. IDA, ADB and bilateral agencies will provide adequate and timely technical
assistance to fit the needs and capacity of Mongolian banks. This will include the supply
of foreign consultancy services, which are essential given the currently inadequate local
capability to provide such services. Foreign consultants will be teamed up with local
consultants in order to maximize transfer of skills and knowledge.
91.   Experiences in other transition economies have shown the consolidation of bad
loans in a government-run collection agency have not been successful (e.g. Hungary),
because the new agencies did not have the ability nor the determination to follow-through
on collection. In contrast, keeping bad loans in banks and forcing the banks to deal with
them has helped build badly-needed institutional capacity in commercial banks (e.g.
Poland). BESAC is designed to initiate the bank-led restructuring process. In this regard,
there is a risk that T&D bank will be unable to effectively work out outstanding loans
from the enterprises, because of bottlenecks in the legal process and the judicial system.
This risk is aggravated if the cases are individually settled through the courts. It can be



- 31 -
mitigated by issuance of a Government decree on the functions and responsibilities of the
DWU, akin to Resolution No. 102; by enactment of a revised Insolvency Law; and by
exploring options for out-of-court settlement and arbitration. The risk will be further
mitigated by short-term technical assistance provided under BELTAC in debt workout,
training of insolvency practitioners and enforcement of judgments.
92.   There may be opposition to the enterprise financial restructuring/loan workout
program due to fears about the social costs of restructuring and liquidation. This risk is
not too serious in Mongolia, as Mongolian state-owned enterprises are not overly
burdened with such social assets as housing, hospitals and kindergartens, compared with
other transition economies. However, the risk of a slowdown in the pace of reforms,
emanating from the enterprise sector where the social costs of adjustment are most
apparent, is real in Mongolia.  IDA will maintain continuous dialogue with the
Mongolian authorities to ensure the steady and well sequenced implementation of the
Government's medium-term reform program.
Recommendation
93.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by: Gautam S. Kaji
Washington, D.C.
March 25, 1997






-33-                                   ANNEX 1
TABLE A.1: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1991-98
(in percent unless otherwise indicated)
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  1996/a  1997/b  1998/b
Real GDP Growth                    -9.9   -7.6   -1.3    2.3    6.3    2.6       3.5       5.0
Nominal GDP (Tg billion)           18.9   43.1   183.3  283.3  429.2  532.8   661.7    778.2
GDP deflator (period average)      99.1   176.4  262.3   66.6   42.5   21.0    20.0        12.0
Consumer prices (end-period)      208.6  321.0  183.0  66.3   53.1   53.3
Gross capital formation/GDP        28.9   14.5   19.0   20.9   23.7    22.4    25.9    27.0
Foreign savings/GDP               18.2    5.1    4.9    5.8    4.1       1.4     9.3      7.2
Domestic savings/GDP              10.7    9.4   14.1   15.1   19.6    21.0    16.5    19.8
Budget current revenue/GDP         47.4   30.0   30.2   29.3   31.6    27.8    29.0    29.7
Budget current expenditureAGDP     51.7   31.1   28.3   27.9   23.8    22.7    27.1    26.7
Overall balance/GDP (deficit-)     -9.7   12.7  -17.0  -24.6   -3.7    -7.4   -12.3   -10.1
Change in broad money   .           53.5   31.7  251.1   81.4   32.9    25.8    20.0    17.4
Income velocity                      1.9    3.3    4.0    3.4    3.8       4.1     4.3     4.3
Export volume growth                  -   11.0    5.6   -8.4    5.6    10.2        8.9      8.1
Import volume growth                  -  -20.2  -12.1   -1.9   21.2        0.8     6.1     6.6
Extemal current account (S million)   -  -72.3  -38.5  -40.3  -40.2   -13.6   -13.6   -13.6
Extemal debt (S million)          236.3  341.8  349.0  473.7  504.2   540.7   635.7   680.4
World Bank                               27.0   30.0   49.0   59.0    68.5
Extemal debt/GDP                   31.2   31.7   59.5   68.6   52.8    55.3    75.2    75.0
Debt Service (US$ millions)         2.2   68.0   19.0   38.0   46.0    48.9    49.4    35.8
Debt Service/Exports                0.6   17.7    4.8    9.3    8.7        9.2     9.3     6.1
La Estimates.
Lb Projections.
Source: Mongolian authorities, World Bank staff, IMF.



-34-                                         ANNEX 1
Table A.2: Balance of Payments
(in millions of US dollars)
1995       1996La        1997/b        1998L2
Trade balance                                     -3.3        -80.9         -88.4        -81.5
Exports, f.o.b.                                485.6         429.9        438.6         476.1
Copper                                       257.6         190.7         154.4        156.1
Imports, c.i.f.                               -488.9        -510.8       -527.1        -557.6
Services, net                                    -34.1        -32.5         -29.9        -27.6
Receipts                                        50.1          52.7         56.9          61.5
Payments                                       -84.2         -85.2        -86.8         -89.1
Private unrequited transfers                     -2.8          -2.0          -2.0         -2.0
Current account deficit (-),
excluding official transfers                     -40.2       -115.3       -120.4        -111.1
Public unrequited transfers, net                 79.1          64.1          40.4         20.0
Official grants                                 70.8          56.6         26.1          10.0
Other official transfers, net                    8.2           7.5          14.3         10.0
Capital account                                   13.5         40.8         99.6          79.8
Direct investment                                9.8          10.0          12.0         14.4
MLT loan disbursements, net                     50.9          66.6         115.9         85.1
Disbursements                                 96.2         105.6        148.3         117.6
Amortizations                                -45.3         -39.1        -32.5         -32.5
Short-term capital                              -47.2        -35.8        -28.3         -19.7
Errors and omissions                             -28.7        -10.2           0.0          0.0
Overall balance                                  23.8         -20.6          19.6        -11.3
Financing                                        -23.8         20.6         -19.6        -15.0
Increase in net official reserves (-)          -30.7          17.9        -12.5         -15.0
Use of IMF credit                             -8.2         -2.8          20.6          12.2
Increase in gross official reserves (-)     -22.5          20.7        -33.1         -27.2
Financing gap                                     0.0           0.0           0.0         26.3
MV/emorandum items:
Exports, f.o.b. (Annual growth)                 32.3         -11.5           2.0          8.5
Imports, c.i.f. (Annual growth)                 32.0          4.5           3.2           5.8
Current account deficit (-)                     4.2        -10.6         -11.2          -9.4
Public transfers, capital account
& errors and omissions                      63.9          94.7         140.0         99.8
Net official reserves (end-period)            67.9          50.0         62.5          77.5
(In weeks of imports, c.i.f)                   7.2           5.1          6.2           7.2
Short-term foreign liabilities                47.0         44.2          64.8          77.0
o/w: Use of IMF credit                       47.0          44.2          64.8         77.0
Gross official reserves (end-period)         114.9         94.2         127.3         154.5
(in weeks of imports, c.i.f.)                 12.2          9.6          12.6          14.4
Nominal GDP                                    954         1,086        .1,071        1,176
La Estimates.
Lb Projections.
Sozrces: Mongolian authorities; IMF.



35-                                    ANNEX 1
Table A.3: Budget Summary
1995           1996          1997*
(millions of Tugriks)
Total Revenue and Grants                     144,623         158,332        212,084
Current revenue                              135,684         151,983        191,784
Taxes, fees and charges                     105,510         127,336        163,594
Income taxes                                 48,537         49,745          52,900
Social security                              15,765         21,866          26,800
Domestic sales tax                            7,839           9,885         13,493
Excise on petroleum and other                 8,580          11,106         13,900
Customs and import sales tax                 17,987         24,723          31,500
Other                                         6,802          10,010         15,000
Nontax revenue                                30,174          24,647         28,190
Capital Revenue and Grants                     8,839          6,349          20,300
of which: Privatization receipts              3,721           3,000         15,000
Total expenditure                            162,143        215,630         289,314
Current expenditure                          104,989         124,812        180,957
Wages and salaries                           26,758         32,814          47,658
of which: severance payments                                              7,231
Purchase of goods and services            47,385          54,621         61,000
Subsidies to public enterprises            3,607               0            455
Transfers                                 21,992          32,277         42,450
Interest payments                          5,247           5,100         22,393
of which: bank restructuring bonds                                       16,000
Capital Expenditureand net lending            57,155          90,818        108,358
Capital expenditure                         53,168          84,086         107,608
Net lending and other                         3,986          6,732            750
Current balance                               30,695          27,171         10,827
Overall balance                              -17,521         -57,298        -77,231
Financing                                     17,521          57,298         77,231
Foreign (net)                                29,635         37,688          83,931
Project loans, gross                        28,621         58,080          76,087
Foreign cash loans                          18,211              0          34,514
less: Amortization                          17,197         20,392         26,670
Domestic, net                               -12,144          19,610         -6,700
Banking system, net                       -20,400          13,906         -6,500
Nonbank, net                                8,286           5,704           -200
(in percent of GDP)
Total Revenue                                   33.7            25.6           26.7
Current revenue                                31.6            24.6           24.1
Tax revenue                                    24.6            20.6           20.6
Capital revenue                                 2.1             1.0            2.6
Total Expenditure                               37.8            34.8           36.4
Current expenditure                            24.5            20.2           22.8
Capital expenditure and net lending            13.3            14.7           13.6
Current balance                                  7.2             4.4            1.4
Overall balance                                 -4.1            -9.3           -9.7
Mfemorandum: GDP                             429.200        618.900         794,400
Sonrce: Ministry of Finance



-36-                             ANNEX 2
ANNEX 2: THE BANKING SECTOR
Evolution of the Banking Sector
1.    The Mongolian financial system is dominated by commercial banks. Assets of
insurance companies and pension funds are minuscule, and a commercial bond market
has yet to be developed.  Prior to 1990, Mongolia had a monobanking system,
administered by the State Bank. The primary responsibilities of the State Bank were to
issue currency, to manage foreign exchange, and to provide credit based on the annual
production plan. Access to bank credit was restricted to economic units in the material
(production) sector and to a few enterprises in the nonmaterial (social and services)
sector. The aggregate amount of credit to be extended was centrally determined and
extended without collateral.
2.   In 1991, Mougolia established a two-tiered banking system, separating the central
and commercial baning functions of the State Bank and establishing new commercial
banks with private participation. The central bank was formed through reorganization of
key departments of the former State Bank. Six banks were launched from the divested
portfolio of the former State Bank, and nine were created de novo with private
participation. The largest, in terms of size, was the People's Bank, accounting for over
35 percent of total assets. The four remaining devolved banks were the Insurance bank,
the Investment and Technological Innovation bank (ITI), the Agriculture bank, and the
Trade and Development (T&D) bank.  These banks have inherited most of the
government and state-owned enterprise accounts. The remaining banks are small and
combined control less than 10 percent of total deposits and loans of the banking system.
3.    Despite its short history, there have been many bank closures to date.  In
September 1994, the Government, rather than liquidating the assets of two troubled
banks, decided to merge the Cooperative bank (a devolved bank) with the People's bank,
and the Selenge Bank (a de novo bank) with ITI bank. ITI and People's bank both
received highly subsidized loans from BOM to cover the cost of the mergers. In the
summer of 1996, the Autoroad bank was closed, and the license of the Central Asia bank
was suspended due to insolvency. Central Asia Bank was officially closed in July 1996.
This action prompted widespread lines of customers until it was announced that
depositors would be paid full compensation. BOM provided large volumes of liquidity
support to the banks, but confidence in the banking system continued to erode. In
December 1996, the Government closed the People's bank and Insurance bank.



-37-                                ANNEX 2
CHRONOLOGY
July, 1990    First multi-party elections held; Mongolia People's Revolutionary Party
(MPRP) wins 85% of seats in Parliament.
Dec, 1990    Investment & Technological Innovation (ITI) Bank and Trade & Development
(T&D) Bank are separated from the State Bank of Mongolia.
April, 1991    Banking Law passed establishing the central bank, Bank of Mongolia, and
providing new bank licenses for commercial banks; by year-end, People's,
Insurance, Agricultural, and Cooperative Banks were formed.
Dec, 1991    Soviet Union dissolved; trade with Russia collapsed; real GDP declined by
10%.
1992         9 new small banks established -- Mongol Post, Export-import, Industrial,
Business, Central Asia, Mercury, Selenge, Autoroad, Bayanbogd Banks.
June, 1992    Second Parliamentary elections; MPRP wins 93% of seats on 57% of popular
vote.
Sept, 1994    Cooperative and Selenge Banks forced to merge with People's and ITI Banks.
1995         First private bank, Golomt Bank, with foreign equity participation established.
June, 1996    Third Parliamentary elections; Opposition Coalition parties win 70% of the
popular vote, ending MPRP control of Parliament; New Prime Minister sworn
in with mandate to initiate radical reforms.
July, 1996    Central Asia Bank closed due to insolvency.
Aug, 1996    Second foreign equity bank, MM Bank, established.
Sept, 1996    People's Bank temporarily put under central bank conservatorship.
Oct, 1996    MPRP won 65% of popular vote in local elections.
Dec, 1996    People's and Insurance Banks closed; a new Savings Bank, Reconstruction
Bank, and Mongolia Asset Recovery Agency established.
The Central Bank
4.    The Bank of Mongolia (BOM) has 22 branches in all aimags throughout the
country. These branches are involved in activities, such as, clearing operations and
settlement of transactions. BOM uses a variety of direct policy instruments, such as
administered interest rates and credit ceilings, and indirect instruments, such as refinance
facilities and central bank bills to conduct monetary policy.



-38-                               ANNEX 2
5.    Administered Interest Rates. BOM previously set ceilings on loan rates and
floors on deposit rates for commercial banks. BOM introduced administered interest
rates for a variety of reasons. Floor on deposit rates were instituted early in the transition
to expand the banking system's deposit base. Differential ceilings on loan rates were
introduced to prevent financial distress from spreading out of control, especially in
circumstances where a combination of distress borrowing and evergreening could lead to
market instability and skyrocketing real rates of interest if not checked. Loan rates were
differentiated based on the strategic importance of the sector and/or the borrower. In
other words, commercial banks were directed to provide implicitly subsidized credit to
governrment-picked sectors and activities, and, in turn, were left to cover the cost
associated with the subsidized rates by seeking borrowers who were willing to pay higher
loan rates. BOM no longer sets any rate ceilings on commercial lending. The current
nominal lending rates range from 36 percent to 156 percent per annum. The lending rates
are so high that debt servicing is possible only by a small cadre of borrowers, mostly
engaged in short term trade transactions.
6.    Credit Ceilings. BOM imposes tailored-made credit ceilings on all commercial
banks to control the growth of net domestic assets and to restrict the size of individual
bank lending. The ceilings are determined based on the banks' asset size and lending
portfolios. Violations of the credit ceilings, however, have been rampant. BOM has
since adopted individual contracts with commercial banks to enforce monetary policy and
prudential targets. To date, contracts on credit ceilings and loan to deposit ratios have
worked well and formed the basis for bank restructuring.
7.    Central Bank Refinance Facilities. BOM provides credit to commercial banks
to support special economic activities, especially in agriculture (resource deficiency
loans), and to meet short-term  liquidity needs for payments clearing and settlement
(clearing loans). In the past, BOM also provided bank merger loans to clear outstanding
balances in the commercial banks' interbank settlement accounts. All preclearing loans
have been fully repaid, and this facility is now closed. BOM also guarantees settlement
for each clearing through clearing loans. This is basically a short-term credit facility
providing liquidity with a one week maturity at a high rate of interest. BOM has limited
clearing loans to any one banlk to 20 percent of capital with a total facility limit of Tg 750
million. Credit to cover resource deficiency has steadily increased with BOM credit to
the banking system exceeding Tg 14 billion, more than 10 percent of total assets during
the summer months of 1996. Since then, BOM advances to the banking system were
substantially curtailed, and as of end-1996, BOM loans to commercial banks was Tg 1.7
billion. BOM also issued new regulations for using its clearing facility, wherein a
predetermined amount of central bank credit is auctioned every week at a maturity of 7
days.
8.    Central Bank Bills. Central bank (CB) bills were introduced in November 1993
with a Tg I billion issuance. Initially, they had a maturity ranging from two weeks to
three months, and the interest rates were negotiated between BOM and the commercial
banks, usually at about 4 percent per month. In November 1994, a biweekly Dutch



- 39 -                           ANNEX2
auction system was established, and the maturity of the CB bills was fixed to two weeks.
The present interest yield on CB bills is about 3 percent per month. The amount of
outstanding CB bills reached Tg 2.2 billion in June 1996, but has since been curtailed.
As of end-1996, there were no outstanding CB bills.
9.    Reserve Requirements. Reserve requirements were unified in August 1993, and
at the same time consolidated across branches of commercial banks. Commercial bank
deposits with other commercial banks were excluded from the calculations and only cash-
in-vault and deposits on current account with the BOM are permitted as reserve
requirements. Reserve requirements were increased twice in 1994-from 12 percent to
14 percent in February and again to 17 percent in June-to control excess liquidity.
BOM established a reserve money group in November 1994, consisting of directors from
the monetary policy, international, and accounting departments, which meets every two
weeks, to adjust the reserve ratios.
10.   Payments and Clearing Operations. BOM started exchanging paper payments
orders in 1992, connecting all 21 aimags. At present, inter-aimag payments are made
through the UB clearing center once a day. The information is downloaded from
computers and transferred to payment orders that are posted and reconciled. There is
usually a one day float from outer aimags to Ulaanbaatar commercial banks and a three
day float to other parts of the country. Within Ulaanbaatar itself, the UB clearing service
operates twice a day-morning and afternoon. In early 1995, BOM established electronic
clearing in Ulaanbaatar and has since expanded it to the aimags.
11.   Government payments between agencies, as well as other expenditures, are still
handled outside the banking system in most places. There is no electronic payment of
payroll, even in larger companies. The heavy reliance on cash in the economy has a
historical basis, and is compounded by the public's lack of familiarity with noncash
instruments. One factor contributing to this lack of trust is the difficulty in making cash
withdrawals from banks: delays of days or even weeks in some cases are experienced at
the provincial level. BOM has, however, started to implement changes to improve
payments, clearing and  settlement operations.   The approach  is multifaceted:
improvements in accounts and bookkeeping, computer procedures, data processing at the
UB Clearing Center, and monetary policy to insure systemic liquidity for settlement.
BOM has centralized commercial bank current accounts (held by BOM offices) at the UB
Clearing Center. To speed up interbank clearing, the BOM now requires deposit and
related bank information to be reported on daily basis and current account information on
a monthly basis. Future plans include BOM efforts to improve interbranch accounting by
having only the UB Clearing Center maintain interbranch accounts, introducing
interbranch reconciliation on a daily basis, and expanding the BOM network to
commercial banks in Ulaanbaatar.



- 40 -                            ANNEX 2
The Banking System
12.   As of end-1996, there were 15 commercial banks operating in Mongolia. The five
large banks control about 90 percent of total deposits and almost 80 percent of total loans.
These banks vary considerably in terms of management competence, financial soundness,
and market niches. The small banks, on a combined basis, have a deposit base smaller
than that the smallest of the 'five large banks.' Despite their tiny market shares, the small
banks on a combined basis are significantly more profitable than the five large banks
before provisioning is taken into account. Their superior performance is the result of
their relatively high paid-up capital (47 percent of total assets) and lack of competition for
good small customers. While the small banks also vary greatly in terms of quality and
performance, they represent some element of competition in the banking system and
funding for the emerging new enterprise clientele.
13.   Bank Branches in the Aimags. Mongolia has 19 aimags. Ulaanbaatar and
Darkhan, the second largest city, are independent municipalities and do not belong to a
specific aimag. Total outer region population is 1,655,000 which is served by 471
banking offices (including 80 branches and 391 sub-branches and retail service centers).
Banking offices have population markets of 2,000 to 8,000 per office. The Ulaanbaatar
market is a net provider of funding to the outer regions. Total outer region loans is
Tg 26.8 billion versus Tg 19.2 billion in deposits. Ulaanbaatar, with 26 percent of the
country's population and the vast majority of all enterprises headquarters, is clearly the
prime market for any bank, and all banks have their headquarters there.  The
opportunities to enhance the strength of the banking system through bank rationalization
are mainly in the outlying regions, which are generally over-banked.
14.   The typical regional banking office has many small accounts with volumes too
small to cover costs. Offices average 157 depositors and 23 loans. The average loan size
is Tg 2.4 million, and deposit accounts average only Tg 0.3 million. The problems of
small customer bases is particularly accentuated by Agricultural Bank's 303 sub-branches
in the soums (counties). These offices primarily take deposits, distribute pension checks
without compensation, and frequently do not lend. Despite being the only banking
facility in these districts, almost all of these offices lose money. Most aimag capitals
have few attractive customers, while at least three banks are represented. Elimination of
some unprofitable offices can be achieved without leaving any aimag unserved.
15.   Financial Position of the Banking System. The banking system as a whole is
extremely illiquid and has experienced significant deterioration in 1996. Total bank
liquid assets (cash, bank reserves, and central bank bills) declined from Tg 13.4 billion at
year-end 1995 to Tg 6.9 billion by year-end 1996. A combination of low confidence in
the banking system and a sizable unofficial economy has meant that cash represents a
large share of the money stock in Mongolia. Currency outside the banking system
increased from Tg 25.6 billion in 1995 to Tg 56.1 billion by year-end 1996. This has
resulted in decreased liquidity within the banking system, and only one bank has been
able to maintain adequate reserves at BOM. The illiquid banks have had to rely



-41-                             ANNEX 2
increasing on BOM  funding and government deposits, which increased from Tg 7.4
billion at year-end 1995 to Tg 10.9 billion by year-end 1996.
Bank Restructuring Strategy
16.  In response to a growing crisis in the banking sector, the Government developed a
comprehensive bank restructuring strategy, with input from the IMF, ADB and IDA. The
bank restructuring strategy sought to liquidate insolvent banks and to enforce strict
measures to improve the liquidity position of the remaining banks. As of end-November
1996, four of the large five banks were in difficulty. Two of these banks, People's bank
and Insurance bank, were deeply insolvent, and had no possibility to restore themselves
to solvency without very large infusions of new capital. The other two banks, Agriculture
bank and ITI bank, appeared to have some scope for rehabilitation on the basis of limited
recapitalization if they followed sound banking practices and are intensively monitored.
On December 1996, the People's and Insurance banks were liquidated, within the
framework of the newly enacted Central Bank Law and Banking law. The Agriculture
and ITI banks were required to sign Memorandum of Understanding (MOUs) with the
authorities to ensure that they adopt the necessary measures to restore themselves to
viability.
17.  In the aftermath of the bank closures, the authorities established a Savings bank, a
Reconstruction bank, and the Mongolia Asset Recovery Agency (MARA). The Savings
bank is restricted to.being allowed only to take household deposits, and to invest in safe
assets, i.e., government or central bank securities, cash, and deposits at BOM. The
Savings bank was licensed by BOM. All household deposits are transferred to the
Savings bank together with bonds equivalent to that amount. The Government provided
it with the minimum amount of capital required under the law. The existence of the
Savings bank provides substantial reassurance to household depositors, especially since
there is at present no system of depositor protection, and could have a significant impact
in encouraging re-intermediation.
18.   Under the Banking Law, household deposits have first priority for payment out of
the realizations of a failed bank. The assets of the failed banks were sufficient to provide
100 percent protection to household depositors. However, there was insufficient assets to
cover non-household depositors, i.e., deposits of Government and enterprises, in full.
The authorities therefore reduced these deposits pari passu to meet the available
resources. Non-household deposits in one of the two insolvent banks were written down
to 79 percent of their value, and those in the other to 68 percent of their value.
19.  The Reconstruction bank retained the performing loans of the two liquidated banks.
Although such a bank would be unnecessary in an economy with a properly functioning
banking sector, in Mongolia, some of the good enterprises that had. deposits in the two
liquidated banks found it difficulty to transfer their deposits and loans to another bank.
The Reconstruction bank was therefore established as a temporary solution, with the
expectation that it would be merged with another bank in the future, once the banking



- 42 -                             ANNEX2
situation had stabilized. The Government provided capitalization to satisfy the minimum
risk-weighted capital assets ratio, to generate resources for the Reconstruction bank to
buy the good loans of the two liquidated banks.
20.   The objective of MARA is to maximize the recovery from the assets of the banks
that were liquidated. MARA is expected to recover the nonperforming loans itself as
well as to examine ways in which it could delegate debt recovery to other institutions,
including other banks.  Staff of MARA  is comprised of lawyers, bankers and
administrators. MARA will be provided expedited access to the courts, having its cases
heard by judges who are specialists in this field of law.
21.   The Agriculture and ITI banks have prepared business plans prepared with the
assistance of the ADB. These plans will be reviewed to ensure that it provides a credible
strategy for the rehabilitation of the bank. Progress will be monitored frequently--at least
quarterly, and some key indicators on a monthly basis. MOUs to maintain these business
plans have been signed by the owners and senior management the bank and the BOM.
The objective is to produce an immediate stop to the flow of losses, and over time to
rebuild capital; assuming that this process continues according to plans, there would be
limited external recapitalization. Any government recapitalization should be given only
if the bank is complying fully with the provisions of the MOUs, and should result in an
equivalent increase fi the Government's shareholding in the bank.
22.   There are at. present nine small banks in Mongolia which together comprise
around 8 percent of the deposit base. One or two of these seem to be very weak; only a
few are clearly strong. In the absence of capacity constraints, there would be a strong
argument for placing the weakest banks into receivership with the two large banks. This
would give a useful signal to management that all banks will be subject to strong
supervisory oversight and remedial action. It would also avoid the risk that further bank
closures would be called for in the period immediately after restructuring of the largest
banks, thereby undermining the strategy as a whole. The capacity constraints, however,
are real. There is a danger that if the Mongolian authorities try to do too much at once,
they will be unable to be sufficiently diligent in the parts that really matter, and may run
into difficulties that could prove very costly. Any remedial action should therefore have
resource constraints very much in mind. In the coming months, BOM will examine the
financial position of the small banks and take remedial action as capacity permits.
23.   Asset Quality of Commercial Bank Portfolios. The quality of loans in the
banking system are worse than reported by the banks. At year-end 1996, over 50 percent
of total loans outstanding of the banking system were nonperforming. The nonperforming
loans are categorized into three groups--inherited, directed and freely decided loans.' In
Inherited loans are defined as loans that were transferred from the previous state monobank to newly
established commercial banks in 1991. Directed loans are defined as all loans that were granted by
commercial banks on the basis of a Cabinet decision, or extended under government decrees,



- 43 -                                 ANNEX 2
all banks which have had on-site inspections, significant problems have been identified,
and in all cases, loan loss provisions have to be increased. The banking system also has a
poor loan recovery record. This is due to many factors, including a lack of commitment
by banks' top management; a shortage of experienced personnel to work out bad debts
with defaulting borrowers; insufficient coordination among government agencies
concerned; and inadequacies in the legal framework.
24.    As  part of the  bank  restructuring  exercise, the  Government has taken
responsibility for the inherited and directed loans, and has replaced the principal and
interest accrued on these loans with government bonds. In addition, the Government took
over the nonperforming loans of the two failed banks and have placed them in MARA.
These actions significantly improved the asset quality2 and capitalization of the banking
system. Total deficit capital of the banking system was reduced from around Tg 4 billion
to about Tg I billion as a result of bank recapitalization.
Asset quality of the banking system improved as a result of Restructuring
As of 10130(96                                As of 1131(97
Loss
17%                                        Loss
10%   Doubtful
49%                                                  -                    _       Sut#&r4d%
Doubtful
1 e%/6                                       Ovedue
Substandard         Pass
Overdue     7%               65%
9%
25.    Eventual Structure of the Banking System. The Government has singled out a
few select banks for financial and technical assistance. Surviving large commercial banks
will be T&D Bank, ITI Bank and the Reconstruction Bank, comprising a total of
approximately 55% of total system deposits. Agricultural Bank (approximately 10% of
total deposits) will rationalize its operations while focusing on nationwide deposit
resolutions, or letters prior to June 30, 1994. Loans granted by commercial banks to borrowers, using
their own credit evaluation procedures are categorized as freely decided.
2 Substandard loans are delinquent loans of up to 6 months, requiring 25% loan loss provision; doubtful
loans are delinquent up to 12 months, requiring 50% provision; and bad loans are overdue loans of
over 12 months, requiring 100% provision.



- 44 -                           ANNEX 2
gathering and agri-business lending. The Savings bank is comprised primarily of the
retail deposit base of the closed banks (approximately 27% of total deposits). The
Savings bank should help restore confidence, and allow the authorities to remove, or at
least reduce, the implicit deposit insurance now provided to the banking system. The
nine smaller banks (approximately 8% of total deposits) will compete for primarily
Ulaanbaatar based customers, and will probably consolidate into a few sustainable
survivors. The authorities will have rationalize the number of small banks in due course,
by increasing the minimum paid-in capital for banks for example, to restore confidence
and to allow resources to be intermnediated by the better banks. Care must also be taken
to screen new bank applicants; and to increase transparency, including accounting and
disclosure standards, supported by a well-developed auditing profession and enforced by
competent banking supervisors.
26.   The surviving banking system will comprise three large commercial banks, a
specialized savings bank, a specialized agricultural bank and a few smaller commercial
banks serving niche markets.  This number of institutions is sufficient to preserve
competition in Mongolia, and is not too many to be properly supervised by the central
bank. What is critical is that the surviving banks are well managed, liquid, appropriately
capitalized and adequately supervised. Competition should be preserved, and no single
bank should be so large that its failure could not be absorbed by the system.



- 45 -                      ANNEX3
ANNEX 3: THE ENTERPRISE SECTOR
Introduction
1.    The Government's medium-term enterprise reform policy consists of two core
elements: imposition of hard budget constraints on public enterprises, and divestiture of
around 60 percent of remaining state assets in a three-year cash privatization program.
This annex reviews recent developments in and current status of the enterprise sector.
This is still dominated by public enterprises, notwithstanding the emergence of new
private entities, and the mass privatization of small enterprises and partial privatization of
large enterprises in 1991-1994. Regardless of ownership, Mongolia's enterprises face a
series of constraints, ranging from difficulties in adjusting to increases in input prices,
energy costs and loss of traditional markets, to shortages of credit and specialist skills,
and weak governance structures.
Public, Privatized and New Private Enterprises
2.    The role of Mongolia's public sector has radically changed since the start of
reforms in 1990. In '1989, Mongolia's economy was hard to distinguish from that of an
Asian Republic of the Soviet Union, with which it had been closely allied. Virtually all
aspects of the economy, including the large pastoral nomadic sector, were centrally
planned. Output generated by the public sector was about 95 percent of GDP. By the
end of 1995, 64 percent of GDP originated from the private sector, and 44 percent of all
assets were privately owned. Government expenditures had fallen to 43.7 percent of
GDP, down from 65 percent in the eighties.
3.    This remarkable transformation of the economy was largely the result of: (a) the
Government's mass voucher privatization program that transferred 44 percent of state-
owned assets to private hands between 1991 and 1994; (b) the relaxation of restrictions
on private activities that resulted in a proliferation of small shops and proprietorships, and
created a whole class of new private enterprises; and (c) the decline in government
revenues in line with the transition to a market economy.
4.    Public Enterprises. Despite the reduced role of the state in the economy, and the
emergence of private economic entities, public enterprises remain powerful and active in
Mongolia. They are present in numerous sectors of the economy, are the single largest
importer of goods, and continue to enjoy monopoly status in a variety of mainly industrial
sectors.  The Government has retained full ownership of key enterprises in public
utilities, transport and mining, majority ownership of many other enterprises, and
minority shares in large parts of the newly privatized entities.



- 46 -                               ANNEX 3
5.     The extent to which the state plays an active role in enterprises varies
considerably. Since August 1996, the Government share in partially privatized or fully
state-owned enterprises is represented by the State Property Committee (SPC). In some
enterprises, typically smaller and economically less significant ones, the SPC plays a
passive role. In other cases, the SPC takes a much more active role through the Board of
Directors. Line ministries, in particular the Ministries of Agriculture and Industry and
Infrastructure, act as regulators, although they are simultaneously charged with
elaboration of sectoral policies. Separation of the ownership, regulatory and management
functions of the Government has therefore begun. In practice, however, many public
enterprises lack the autonomy necessary to function effectively in a rapidly changing
environment. In addition, government directed lending, weak banks, and government
subsidies provided enterprises with a soft budget constraint. Enterprises did not have
incentives to restructure and improve performance.
6.     Privatized Enterprises. About 4,500 privatized entities were established on the
basis of voucher privatization. The highest concentration of private ownership is in the
agricultural, trade and service sectors. However, definition of privatized enterprises, and
consequent assessment of their role in the economy, is problematic, given that the size of
the residual state share in privatized entities ranges from 10 to 90 percent. Enterprises are
classified as private by the State Statistics Office if the residual state share is less than 49
percent. This definitional problem makes it very difficult to estimate the real contribution
of privatized entities to GDP. Moreover, the performance of privatized entities has not
necessarily differed from that of firms remaining under state control.
7.     The performance of small privatized enterprises, particularly in trade and services,
including retail, has been relatively successful, and the devolution of operational and
strategic decisions appears to have resulted in effective management. In the case of
livestock, herding families, rather than central planners, decide herd size and
composition, whether to purchase veterinary services, and how to market animals and
livestock products. Some problems remain with regard to development of marketing, and
with provision of inputs and extension services which were formerly supplied by the
government. Privatized farms, conversely, are experiencing visible deterioration of their
financial positions and of their asset base. The growth of the trade and service sector has
been considerable, reflecting increased managerial autonomy, and has paved the way for
the proliferation of new entities.
8.     The performance of large enterprises, particularly in manufacturing, has been more
problematic.  Large enterprises have adjusted to changing extemal conditions, in
particular, diversifying production (for example, several manufacturing industries have
started barter trading, import-export or provision of transport services), reducing social
benefits and reducing outstanding  receivables through changes in trade payment
structures.  Notwithstanding changes in strategy, enterprises continue to experience
considerable difficulties in adjusting to increases in input prices, energy costs, and loss of
traditional markets. Furthermore, governance structures of newly-privatized enterprises
remain weak, given the diffusion of ownership as a result of mass voucher distribution.



- 47 -                              ANNEX 3
Some enterprises have over 20,000 shareholders scattered throughout the country. As a
result, govemance remains ineffective, and shareholder authority nominal. For example,
it is difficult to determine to what extent shareholders obtain information about enterprise
perfornance, whether dividend payments are made, or to what extent these reflect
performance. This diffused ownership structure also prevents outsiders from exercising
effective control.
9.    In August 1995, secondary trading of shares began at the Mongolian stock
exchange.' This has helped consolidate ownership somewhat, but major changes in
corporate structure have not yet occurred. There is no sign of significant consolidation of
ownership through secondary trading.  This is attributable largely to shortages of
domestic capital, and limited public awareness of the functions and objectives of capital
markets. It is also a consequence of inadequate asset valuation, concems over the
accuracy of financial data published by listed companies, and lack of public awareness
about shareholder rights and responsibilities. Most significantly, initial market trends
show little investor interest in companies in which the state still has a partial share.
10.   New economic entities. New economic entities have mushroomed in the urban
centers of Ulaanbaatar, Darkhan and Erdenet, and in border regions such as Selenge,
Orhon and Hovd. Most new entrants have been in the services sector, particularly
trading, followed by small-scale mining. Whilst the number of new entrants increased
substantially between 1993 and 1996 (by an average of 54 percent nationally, this trend
was not sustainable.. Between the first quarter of 1996 and the first quarter of 1997 the
total number of new entrants fell by 17 percent. Although exit of new firms is a common
phenomenon in market economies, part of the dropout may have been due to the many
constraints these enterprises face. The performance of new private enterprises is difficult
to assess at this stage, but they face numerous constraints, primarily lack of access to
credit.
Size and Structure of the Public Enterprise Sector
11.   Public enterprises still have a pervasive presence in Mongolia's economy, despite
substantial privatization and new entry of private firms. Some sectors of the economy are
completely dominated by public enterprises, with monopoly or near monopoly status.
For example, in the industry, mining and energy sectors, 84 percent of value added comes
from public enterprises. Moreover, the majority of export earnings are made by Public
enterprises. Refined copper from Erdenet Copper Corporation comprises more than half
of total merchandise exports ($247.7 million out of $451 million in 1995). The second
most important export commodity, cashmere, generates approximately $50 million in
l
The Mongolian Stock Exchange was established in 1991, under the institutional control of the State
Privatization Commission and regulated by the Securities Commission. The total market capitalization is
Tg 72 billion (S159 million). In total, 467 companies, including 247 with state participation are listed on
the Stock Exchange.



- 48 -                             ANNEX 3
export eamings. It is mostly produced by the majority state-owned Gobi Cashmere
Company-although there are now a number of private producers exporting small
amounts. On the imports side, the single largest import item, petroleum products ($69.6
million out of $473 million in 1995), is almost solely imported by the Neft Import
Concern (NIC), the majority state-owned petroleum distribution company.
12.   Public enterprises usually operate in highly concentrated sectors, in which a few
firms, such as the Erdenet copper and Gobi cashmere companies, account for the bulk of
production. Table 3A. 1 shows the relative importance of the top 10 enterprises in terns
of fixed capital, operating surplus, and employment in industry, mining and energy,
revealing a high degree of concentration. The top 10 enterprises in terms of fixed asset
value account for 81 percent of all public enterprise fixed assets and the top 10 enterprises
in termns of sales value account for a similar proportion. The degree of concentration is
even greater in terms of operating surpluses. The concentration of employment is less but
still high, with the 10 top employers accounting for half of aggregate employment. In
most sectors, therefore, a large number of small-to-medium Public enterprises account
only for a small proportion of overall activity, while a handful of large state-owned firms
are the most relevant in terms of profits and losses, and have the biggest impact on the
economy, in terms of flows to and from the budget and the banking sector.
TABLE 3A.1: SIZE DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES IN INDUSTRY, MINING,
AND ENERGY 1995
(million Tugrik, percent, number of employees)
Fixed capital    Gross sales   Operating surplus Employment
All public enterprises      68,984        173,648         57,562        54,540
Top 10 public enterprises   56,253        139,415         52,714        27,513
Share of top 10 public       81%           80%            92%            50%
excluding Erdenet         79%           35O%           28%            36%
Source: State Statistical Office.
Policy Environment
13.   Despite significant progress made in price reforms, deficiencies in pricing policy
and administration continue to constrain public enterprise performance. In the energy
sector, despite recent reforms, some important prices remain substantially below the cost
of supply. Electricity tariffs are currently about 50-60 percent, and heating prices about
30-33 percent of their respective estimated long-run marginal costs.2  Petroleum prices
are currently based on international prices and, on average, are equal to or greater than
2World Bank, Mkfongolia Energy Sector Review, November 1995.



- 49 -                             ANNEX 3
economic costs. However, Neft Import Concern is required to price all products
uniformly throughout the country, regardless of the distance from distribution points. In
railways, as in electricity and heating, tariff adjustments have lagged behind increases in
cost.
14.   Overstaffing is still an issue in many public enterprises, but afflicts infrastructure
and utility companies more severely than others. For example, the Railway Company has
13,000 employees, with few having left despite a substantial reduction in business. Road
maintenance and construction companies employ 4,500 persons despite having no
projects or budget for much work. However, a number of public enterprises, especially in
manufacturing and trade, have been successful in downsizing in recent years.  The
reduction in labor force of public enterprises had been done in keeping with the Labor
Law, and involved payment of three months' severance pay, while other departures have
been voluntary. The meat processing plant in Darkhan reduced employment from 1,200
employees in 1990 to 530 in late 1995; and Ulaanbaatar Building Materials reduced its
staff over the same period from 1,300 to 420. Employment in trading companies has also
fallen dramatically, from 9,500 in 1993 to 2,100 in 1995.
15.   Labor costs are influenced by the extensive supplementary services public
enterprises provide to employees. The costs of these services are typically 25-35 percent
of the wage bill. -By international standards, these are not excessive, but they are
significant because their provision and funding demand management attention.
Typically, enterprises provide employees with transport to and from work, subsidized
food and medical care, and housing in some cases. For example, at Gobi workers receive
an 80 percent discount at a nearby hospital, a 90 percent discount at the staff cafeteria,
free transport to and from work in company-owned buses, an 80 percent discount at the
company's kindergarten, and a 60 percent discount at the company's vacation/rest and
recuperation home. The firm also provides 200 apartments to its employees (at market
rent). Gobi's social services represent the most extensive coverage within the public
enterprise sector, that is considerably more than 35 percent of the wage bill. Such
packages are generally given even by companies that were in serious difficulties, but
some, such as the Salkhit Fur Farm has completely or partially discontinued these
services.
16.   In addition to the provision of social services, public enterprises, particularly food
processing industries, are subject to various regulations and restrictions. For instance,
public enterprises are frequently required by authorities to provide supplies to other
public enterprises or "budgetary organizations" (e.g., schools, hospitals, the military) on a
noncommercial basis, often with quantities, prices, and delivery dates specified; or they
are sometimes required by local govemments to maintain inventories of finished or semi-
finished goods greatly in excess of what market conditions might indicate.



- 50 -                             ANNEX 3
Performance of Public Enterprises
17.   Public enterprises shared the economic hardships that the entire country endured
during 1990-93. Public enterprises, like their private counterparts, faced relative prices at
international levels for most of their activities. High levels of inflation combined with
remaining price controls squeezed financial performance of public enterprises, notably in
utilities and food production.   While public enterprises have undertaken  some
restructuring, it was not sufficient to have a real impact on efficiency. Consequently,
they have increasingly become a burden on the budget and the commercial banking
system.
18.   After years of continuous decline in profits, public enterprises on aggregate
returned to profitability in 1994. However, this statistic must be interpreted cautiously,
given the weak accounting framework and the inadequate treatment of depreciation in
most public enterprises. A survey on net profit rates (net profits/gross sales) in 1994 has
shown that most public enterprises exhibit poor financial performance, even with
inadequate provision for depreciation.3  Most enterprises exhibit low net profits/gross
sales revenue ratios, with poor performance cutting across sectors.  The worst
performance appears to be in the agriculture and food processing enterprises, followed by
public enterprises in utilities and transportation. Mining enterprises and the flour mills
managed to earn only small profit. The notable exceptions are the trading companies and
some large firms, such as Erdenet copper corporation and Gobi cashmere factory, all of
which performed well.
The Fiscal and Monetary Burden of Public Enterprises
19.   Public enterprises constitute an increasing burden on the government budget and
the banking system. Aggregate subsidies to public enterprises have risen from 5.3
percent in 1993 to 7.4 percent of GDP in 1995. These subsidies were handed out directly
from the budget in the form of current subsides and capital grants, and indirectly from
budgetary lending at below market interest rates wvith lenient repayment conditions.
20.   Current Budgetary Subsidies. Current budgetary subsidies have traditionally
been the major source of budgetary financing for public enterprises, although its relative
importance has declined. Current subsidies amounted to 2.1 percent of GDP in 1993.
After a 33 percent increase in 1994, current subsidies declined in 1995 to Tg 3.6 billion,
or 0.9 percent of GDP.  In 1996, the Government stopped all subsidies to public
enterprises, and plan only Tg 455 million in subsidies to urban transport enterprises in
1997. Current subsidies are now only provided to some urban transport companies (see
Table 3A.2).
3World Bank, Mongolia: Putblic Enterprise Review. June, 1996.



- 51-                                ANNEX3
TABLE 3A.2: SUBSIDIES AND GRANTS TO PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
(in Tg millions)
1993       1994        1995        1996         1997
Current Subsidies          2,258      4,000       3,600       0            455
Capital Grants             1,000      1,900       9,700       6,732        750
Total subsidies and grants   3,258    5,900       13,300      6,732        1,205
Source: MOF
21.   Budgetary Capital Grants. The 1995 fall in current subsidies was more than
offset by a rise in capital grants. Capital grants to public enterprises from the central
budget increased in nominal terms from Tg 1.0 billion in 1993 to Tg 9.7 billion in 1995,
or from 0.6 percent to 2.5 percent of GDP. Capital grants to public enterprises to Tg 6.7
billion, and Tg 750 million has been allocated in the 1997 budget. The Government
provides capital grants under the state investment budget. Some foreign donors also
supply earmarked grants to specific public enterprises, although only a few companies
have benefited.
22.   Implicit Budgetary Subsidies.  Public enterprises have also benefited from
substantial implicit subsidies. Beginning in 1993, the Government started lending to
public enterprises from the budget to finance capital expenditures. The total amount of
budgetary loans disbursed during 1993-95 was Tg 16.3 billion, or on average about 2
percent of GDP annually. A significant proportion of these loans has gone to a handful of
enterprises.4  Interest was extremely low by Mongolian standards: while market rates
hovered around 80-120 percent per year, the budgetary loans carried an interest of 2-5
percent. In addition, loan repayment has been poor. As of November 21, 1995, Tg 3.3
million had been repaid, leaving loans of about Tg 13 billion outstanding. About half of
these are in arrears.
23.   Public enterprises are estimated to have received a total of about Tg 31 billion in
implicit subsidies during 1993-95, or on average about 3.7 percent of GDP annually. Of
this, Tg 25.7 billion represents interest rate subsidization, while Tg 5.2 billion is due to
nonfulfillment of debt-service obligations.   These estimates indicate that implicit
subsidies to public enterprises have not only been sutbstantial in recent years but also
larger than explicit subsidies and rising over time. Implicit subsidies have increased
from 2.6 percent of GDP in 1993 to almost 4 percent in 1995. Adding explicit and
implicit subsidies, total subsidies to public enterprises have averaged 6.5 percent of GDP
4
Although more than 50 enterprises have received loans, almost half (43 percent) has gone to two
enterprises: Neft Import Concern (Tg 5.4 billion) and Darkhan Mini-metal (Tg 1.7 billion). Another
Tg 4.5 billion has gone to a group of energy plants and a group of public transport organizations. The
remaining Tg 4.7 billion (29 percent of the total) has gone to roughly 40 public enterprises.



- 52 -                               ANNEX 3
during 1993-95, with the proportion rising from 5.3 percent in 1993 to 7.4 percent in
1995.
24.   Other subsidies.  Some public enterprises obtain financial support, either as
capital grants or government loans, through aimags (provincial administrations) and other
nonrninisterial organizations, such as the State Privatization Commission (SPC). The
majority of these subsidies are, however, difficult or impossible to document.
The Burden of Public Enterprises on the Banking System
25.   Public enterprises have become an increasing burden on commercial banks. They
have been the main recipients of government directed loans from the banking system.
These loans amount to over Tg 15 billion, or about 4 percent of GDP, including interest
accrued. They are mostly unrecoverable, and were assigned to the newly-established
Mongolian Asset Recovery Agency (MARA) at the end of 1996.
26.   Public enterprises continue to account for a significant part of the banking sector's
portfolio-about 16 percent of the total as of June 1995, but down from 43 percent at the
beginning of 1993.' The share of public enterprises in loan disbursements has also
decreased, but at a slower rate, from 46 percent in 1993 to 28 percent in the first half of
1995 (see Table 3A.3).  Yet, with one-fourth of new  bank loans going to public
enterprises, their debt service performance affects the viability of the banking system.
27.   Public enterprises fall increasingly short on their debt-service obligations to the
banks. While the stock of loans outstanding to public enterprises has decreased over this
period, the proportion of principal arrears in total loans outstanding has increased sharply,
from 6 percent at the beginning of the year to about 11 percent six months later. Even
more alarming is the sharper increase in the incidence of bad loans; from 0.02 percent to
3.4 percent of loans outstanding, and from 0.4 percent to 31.3 percent of arrears.
~The data on public enterprises actually refers to the public sector as a whole; separate data for public
enterprises were not available. However, nonenterprise loan accounts for less than 4 percent of total loans
to the public sector.



- 53 -                                ANNEX 3
TABLE 3A.3: BANK LOANS TO PUBLIC ENTERPRISES, 1993-95
Loans      New loans  Loans repaid                    Loans
outstanding at  disbursed    during year              outstanding at
beginning    during year               Adjustments   year-end
Total
1993                19,018       89,131        85,153       9,918         32,914
1994                32,914       114,599       100,125      8,855         56,243
1995 (first 6 months) 56,243     73,060        63,632       -2,186        63,485
Public enterprises
1993                8,172        41,409        40,639       3,847         12,789
1994                12,789       41,746        40,109       -1,844        12,582
1995 (first 6 months) 12,582     20,441        23,192       521           10,352
Private enterprises
1993                10,114       42,554        39,740       5,713         18,641
1994                18,641       64,290        51,944       9,365         40,352
1995 (first 6 months) 40,352     46,222        35,127       -2,531        48,916
Joint ventures
1993                155          1,078         1,125        3             111
1994                111          1,562         2,004        623           292
1995 (first 6 months) 292        2,440         1,479        5 1           1,304
Others
1993                577          4,090         3,649        355           1,373
1994                1,373        6,421         5,466        479           2,807
1995 (first 6 months) 2,807      3,957         3,834        -17           2,913
28.    The figures tend to underestimate the true level of arrears and bad loans of public
enterprises to the banking sector. It is common practice for public enterprises to roll-over
loans, with the banks reclassifying past loans as new. A large part of the new loans to
public enterprises, therefore, masks the inability of those firms to repay their past loans.
This partly explains why private firms, which usually face stricter repayment conditions,
exhibit poorer performance than public enterprises with respect to the level of arrears and
bad loans to the banking system.
29.    The debt service record of public enterprises varies widely across sectors.
Agricultural public enterprises have performed the worst. They received only 12 percent
of total loans outstanding as of June 1995, but accounted for 36 percent of total loans in
arrears and 70 percent of arrears more than 12 months old. These are mostly inefficient
state-run wheat farns that borrow without expectations of repayment. Industrial public
enterprises, the largest recipients of bank loans, accounted for almost half of total loans
outstanding. Their debt service record is, on average, the best, with only 3 percent of
6The poor credit record of the private sector relative to public enterprises is also misleading in that Tg 15
billion in inherited and directed loans to public enterprises, which amounts to over 30 percent of total
loans outstanding, are not included in the stock of bad loans.



- 54 -                             ANNEX 3
loans in arrears. Of the loans to public enterprises in infrastructure, 21 percent are in
arrears, but only 3 percent of the loans was nonperforming.
Interenterprise Arrears
30.   Several enterprises have substantial arrears to other enterprises, creating a chain of
loans and arrears which also stretches to the governnent and the commercial banking
sector. These arrears weaken the performance and long-term viability of all enterprises
affected, as the network of debt becomes more complicated and less manageable over
time.
3 1.   The energy sector, with the Central Energy System (CES) at its core, has the most
serious interenterprise arrears.  The total amount of arrears in the energy sector is
estimated to exceed Tg 9 billion in 1995 (i.e., 2.3 percent of GDP). They include arrears
to the state budget, to energy import companies, to coal mines, to energy generating
companies, to transportation companies, and others. Examples are many. During the
first five months of 1995, a coal company was paid for less than one third of the product
it delivered to state-owned power plants. As a result, the coal company was unable to pay
Mongolian Railways for the transport of the coal to the power plants.
32.   Other key areas with large arrears include the transport and food sectors. In many
cases, enterprises are obliged by Government to continue selling to customers even when
they do not receive payment. A flour mill is in considerable arrears from bakeries while
having to make large interest payments on its own debt to banks. A fuel distribution
company is compelled to continue fuel shipments to customers (especially in agriculture
and mining) who do not pay.
33.   Arrears have several detrimental effects on the economy. The problem is often
passed on to the commercial banks, which, in the end, lend at higher rates to cover the
arrears. Many enterprises are unable to satisfy other commitments, such as tax payments,
government budget loan repayments, pension contributions, utility payments, and staff
wages which are often not paid for several months.
Tax Arrears
34.   Public enterprises appear to have performed better in meeting their tax payment
obligations than they have been in servicing their loans from the Government.
Nonetheless, tax arrears are large and appear to be rising.  The tax records of 23
important public enterprises show that taxes paid as percent of taxes due fell from 92
percent in 1994 to 60 percent in the first half of 1995. Some of this decline is attributable
to seasonal factors, since cash outflows usually exceed inflows in the first half of the
year, with the reverse happening in the second half. However, seasonality is only one
factor, and the tax-payment record of public enterprises has worsened:



- 55 -                             ANNEX 3
Conclusion and Next Steps
35.   Public enterprises are an increasing burden on the economy. Their efficiency and
financial performance in a number of sectors.  Despite retrenchment since 1990,
overstaffing is still an issue, notably in utilities and railways. However, Government has
been reluctant to let non-performing public enterprises fail.  This reluctance has
increasing costs to the budget, the banks and to other enterprises. Non-performing loans
from the budget and commercial banks crowd out private enterprises. Moreover, loan
defaults have crippled the banks and forced them to charge unsustainably high interest
margins on their lending. This has virtually wiped out term lending and investment
finance in the economy, and has adversely affected growth.
36.   In response to som of the problems in the real sector, the Government has
proposed more radical medium-term enterprise reforms, with privatization as the
spearhead. The design of what will be a highly ambitious cash privatization program has
not been finalized. However, the basic elements include: (a) sale of up to 700 fully and
partially privatized public enterprises, primarily through auctions, and (b) privatization of
large potentially viable companies, including Neft Import Concern, MIAT, Gobi
cashmere co., large gold mines and Mongolian shares in Erdenet Copper Concern (a joint
venture with Russia), possibly to foreign investors. The Government intends to retain
control over a variety of properties including buildings used by central and local
Government organizations, main electric transmission lines, power stations, water supply
and sanitation and telecommunication networks, civil aviation and airport terminals,
roads, railways and enterprises receiving official development assistance--as stipulated in
individual loan/grant agreements. The plan has been developed in the absence of a full
inventory of state property. Moreover, revenue expectations are optimistic, some as high
as Tug 66 billion by 2000.
37.   In refining the privatization program, the Government is likely to evaluate the
tradeoffs between speed of transactions, and efficiency of ownership transfer and
management.  Policymakers are considering the importance of building strong
govemance structures, and clarifying property rights before privatization. The most
important tasks in finalizing the program will be to (a) set objectives beyond the transfer
of property alone, (b) adopt realistic timing and revenue objectives, (c) determine, up-
front, the appropriate methods and procedures for each transaction, and clearly identify
assets and liabilities. Successful private sector development, which goes beyond the
scope of the privatization process itself will, however, depend critically on reforms in the
financial sector. It will also depend on progress in policy reforms which promote sound
governance structures, a competitive environment of secure and flexible transactions, and
ensure security of property rights.



-56 -                           ANNEX 4
GOVERNMENT OF MONGOLIA
Fax# (976 1) 310011                              Tel# (976 1 322408)
Date        March 27, 97        N2                     Ulaanbaatar- 17
Statc Hnouse
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY AND
MATRIX OF KEY POLICY ACTIONS
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
Subject: Banking and Enterprise Sector Reform Program
My Government, the first non-communist Government elected in 75 years, is
committed to deepening the reforms that were started by my predecessors,
and establishing an enduring market system. We are committed to a three-
year medium-term banking and enterprise sector reform program that will
institute macroeconomic stabilization measures and implement fundamental
-         structural reforms, especially the restructuring of our banking and enterprise
sectors. To this end, we have forrnulated a medium-term reform program for
the period of 1997-99, in close collaboration with the staffs of the
9           International Development Association (IDA) and the International Monetary
Fund (IMF). Within the medium-term reform program, implementation of
the Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (BESAC), developed
* _ >        through the successful cooperation between the Mongolian authorities, IDA,
IMF, and the Asian Development Bank (ADB), lays the foundation for
structural reforms in the banking and enterprise sectors. My Government's
medium-term reforrn program is outlined below.
Macroeconomic Reforms
We recognize that progress toward macroeconomic stabilization and the
creation of a stable environment for businesses to invest and grow is essential
to the achievement of sustained noninflationary growth. From 1993 to 1995,
real GDP, after falling by 3 percent, grew by 2 percent-and by over 6 percent
in 1995 better than in most other transition economies. The external current
account deficit remained between 6 and 7 percent of GDP.



- 57 -                           ANNEX4
Aid disbursements were strong, and net official international reserves rose more than targeted
over the period as a whole. However, inflation at an average of 73 percent in 1994-95
remained well above programmed targets and higher than most other transition economies.
Despite these significant achievements, economic performance in 1996 has fallen short of
our expectations. GDP growth in 1996 is 2.6 percent, below the target of 5 percent. The
budget deficit widened from 4 percent in 1995 to about 8 percent in 1996, reflecting
increases in wages and welfare payments in the first half of the year and the revenue impact
of sharply weaker copper prices. The current account deficit excluding official transfers
widened to about 8.7 percent of GDP in 1996. Growing concerns about problems in the
banking system in mid-1996 led to a drain on deposits, and our central bank, the Bank of
Mongolia (BOM), responded by providing liquidity support. Inflation dipped briefly to
under 30 percent in mid- 1996, but quickly rebounded to an annual average rate of 50 percent,
in part due to the implementation of long overdue increases in energy prices.
Against this background, my Government has put forth a medium-term reform
program that aims to stabilize the economy and consolidate earlier gains by pressing ahead
with structural reforms. We are negotiating a new IiMF ESAF program for 1997 to 1999, and
we expect to finalize negotiations in May for presentation to the Board of Directors of the
IMF in June 1997. Our top priority will be the restoration of macroeconomic stability,
especially reducing inflation to about 25 percent by end-1997, with further reductions in
subsequent years.  Fiscal policy will support the overall macroeconomic objectives by
substantially tightening traditional current expenditures, especially remaining subsidies to
public enterprises: Privatization proceeds, which are projected to peak over the next few
years, will efovide an important supplement to tax revenues. High levels of exceptional
expenditures for bank restructuring will reduce the current budget surplus to 1 1/2 percent of
GDP in 1997 and raise the overall budget deficit to 10 percent of GDP. Monetary policy will
remain tight fhroughout the 1997-99 period in order to support a restoration of confidence in
the banking sector, strengthening external position, and achieve a sharp reduction in
inflation. Broad mioney growth will be contained to 23 percent, combined with efforts to
rebuild the level of gross international reserves to reach 10,5 weeks of imports by end- 1997.
The growth of total domestic credit will be limited to 5 percent. In real terms, the growth of
credit to the private sector is targeted to rise, while lending to public enterprises and
government is programmed to decline sharply. Our current account deficit is expected to
remain large, reflecting the narrowness of the export base and the need for substantial
imports of capital goods.   Large investment requirements to develop Mongolia's
infrastructure base will require continued foreign financing. The restoration of
macroeconomic stability and implementation of structural reforms should contribute to an
increase in private sector investment and enable GDP growth to gradually increase to reach 6
percent by 1999.
We believe that private sector development is the key to enhancing Mongolia's
medium-term growth prospects, and intend to follow through on our mandate to accelerate
the pace of market-oriented reforms. On the structural side, our most urgent priorities will be
ensuring that bank restructuring remains on course and that budget constraints on enterprises
are hardened. Private initiatives must be freed by creating a stimulating environment for
private entrepreneurs and privatized firms to grow. At the same time, the banking system
must be strengthened through restructuring and eventual privatization, the enactment of
adequate prudential regulations and the enforcement of commercially-oriented lending
practices. We believe that sustained growth cannot be achieved without deepening reforms
in both the enterprise and financial sectors. We have therefore developed a banking and
enterprise sector reforrm program to be supported by BESAC.



- 58 -                           AiNNEX 4
Banking and Financial Sector Reforms
Our long-term objectives in the banking sector are to improve the savings-investment
intermediation process through the enforcement of strict credit discipline;'to improve the
financial performance of individual banks; and to develop skills in loan recovery and debt
workout in the banking sector so as to initiate further enterprise restructuring. To achieve
these objectives, we will:  (a) restructure individual commercial banks to promote the
development of a solvent, viable banking system; (b) develop commercial banking skills and
aggressively implement loan recovery efforts; and (c) stop the flow of bad lending from
banks to defaulting borrowers.
Bank Restructurine. With assistance from the IMF, ADB and IDA, we have
developed a comprehensive bank restructuring strategy that seeks to liquidate insolvent
banks and to enforce strict measures to improve the liquidity position of the remaining banks.
On December 1996, we successfully closed two large insolvent banks, within the framework
of our newly enacted Central Bank Law and Banking law. We guaranteed fully household
deposits, but limited protection for enterprise deposits. The Parliament has approved a 1997
budget with Tg 16 billion to finance the bank restructuring exercise. In the aftermath of the
bank closures, we have established Savings Bank, Reconstruction Bank, and the Mongolia
Asset Recovery Agency (MARA). The Reconstruction Bank retains the performing loans of
the two liquidated banks, while MARA manages loan recovery efforts. The two other large
banks, Agriculture Bank and Investment and Technological Innovation Bank, were required
to formulate and implement restructuring plans during 1997. Compliance will be monitored
by the BOM and by the ADB, and the banks will be liquidated if there are significant
slippages. Our main task in 1997 will be to ensure that the three new institutions successfully
carry out their mandates.
The bank restructuring program eventually seeks to privatize all state-owned banks.
In this connection; we will initiate bank twinning arrangements to facilitate future entry by
foreign commercial banks in the domestic market, and will prepare a privatization plan by
July 1, 1998 that seeks to privatize all state-owned banks. The ultimate goal is to see the
development of a privately-owned banking system, with foreign participation and
competition.
IDA technical assistance will assist in a bank twinning exercise to introduce
international banking practices and eventually foreign bank; participation in the sector. ADB
technical assistance to the sector will focus on developing skills in individual commercial
banks. ADB will provide foreign experts for on-the-job training in credit underwriting, loan
documentation, syndication, monitoring and recovery, and asset-liability management. ADB
will also assist commercial banks to upgrade their computer hardware and software and train
their staffs in the use of integrated banking computer systems.
Loan Recoverv Efforts. Assuring high levels of loan recoveries is one of the top
priorities in our restructuring operation and one of the most difficult aspects to manage.
Success is needed both to reduce the budgetary cost and to set an example for the other two
banks that are being monitored as an alternative to liquidation. MARA has the main
responsibility for managing the loan recoveries of the failed banks and will be staffed
accordingly. Through MARA, we will explore the possibility of developing a secondary
market for. debt, allowing any bank or institution to purchase noriperforming loans and
aggressively initiate loan recovery efforts. Emphasis will be placed on selling or othervise
transferring the carved out loans back to existing banks, to be handled there through
workouts, foreclosures, or liquidations. We will utilize IDA technical assistance for the
strengthening of supporting institutions, such as the courts, registry and the bailiffs office, to



- 59 -                            ANNEX4
ensure more effective enforcement and implementation of our proposed loan recovery
measures.
To supplement NMARA and to initiate the bank-led enterprise restructuring process,
we will strengthen the debt workout unit in the Trade & Development (T&D) bank, with its
operations overseen by a Director-level manager and supported by four full-time T&D bank
staff. The debt workout unit will launch a pilot program to restructure or liquidate four
private enterprises which are amongst the T&D bank's worst defaulters. This pilot program
will be implemented either voluntarily in agreement with the shareholders of the selected
enterprises, or through bankruptcy procedures initiated by T&D bank, with the full support of
my Government. IDA technical assistance will be used to carry out viability assessments of
the enterprises. We will ensure that by the end of 1997, the debt workout unit in the T&D
bank; will have completed the viability assessments of the four selected enterprises; and have
completed the restructuring or liquidation of the four selected enterprises by the end of 1998,
in accordance to the Law. Lessons learnt from this pilot exercise will be used to fine-tune
the legal and institutional framework to facilitate future workouts, and the skills acquired will
be transmitted to the rest of the banking system to deal with similar restructuring problems.
Stopping Loans to Defaulters. My Government, in close collaboration with the
BOM, has stopped all directed lending through the banks. We intend consistently to enforce
the cessation of directed lending by commercial banks, and we will monitor it through
regular commercial bank reports to BOM and through off-site examinations. The BOM has
already taken action to stop all bank lending to defaulting borrowers. A mechanism for
reporting defaulters in already in place at the BOLM, and BOM has instructed individual
banks to stop lending to defaulters. To monitor continually commercial bank lending
practices, the BOMy will issue a Central Bank Regulation requiring all banks to report on a
monthly basis their ten largest outstanding loans. By mid-1997, BOM will establish a Credit
Inforrnation Bureau, consolidating periodic reports from all banks of borrowers in default.
The Credit Inforrnation Bureau will list all defaulters, and is intended to enable banks to
determine if any borrower is in default to a third bank. By the end of 1998, we will move the
Credit Information Bureau to an organization independent of the central bank.
Enterprise Sector Reforms
We believe that banking sector reforms will be ineffective and unsustainable without
comprehensive reforms in the enterprise sector where most of the important clients of the
banks are located. Enterprise reforms should facilitate liquidation of non-viable enterprises
and development of viable enterprises. Our strategy, which we have begun to implement, is
to improve the performance of the enterprise sector by: (a) accelerating privatization and
improving governance structures; (b) imposing hard budget constraints on enterprises; (c)
restructuring or liquidating enterprises that are not financially or economically viable; and (d)
removing obstacles to private sector development.
Privatization. The mass voucher privatization program succeeded in transferring
paper ownership to private hands but did not lead to improved governance structures in the
newly privatized firns. My Government is actively preparing a privatization program that
will be ready by July 1, 1997. This program will seek to privatize most remaining large
public enterprises, including profitable enterprises, and sell all remaining state shares in
partially privatized manufacturing enterprises in the course of the present term  of this
administration. In order to provide a clear and strong signal to the private sector of our
commitment to privatization, we will sell several public enterprises during 1997. During
implementation, we shall pay close attention to improving the governance structures of
enterprises to be privatized. The State Property Committee will ensure that privatization



- 60 -                            ANNEX4
yields maximum gains to our economy, and is.transparent to all concerned parties. We shall
move towards fulfilling the campaign promise of privatizing all residential housing by
beginning a nation-wide program in 1997.
Imposition of Hard Budget Constraints. A key element of our banking reform
strategy is to exclude defaulting enterprises from further bank lending. This policy will be
complemented by ensuring that the budget does not become an alternate source of soft
financing. We are committed to phasing out under a time-bound program all remaining
transfers and subsidized loans made under the budget to public enterprises. Our 1997 budget
has provisions to meet the current expenditures of social sector institutions (schools,
hospitals etc.), and expenditures for severance and pension payments to civil servants and
retrenched enterprise labor. As part of our effort to harden budget constraints on enterprises,
MOF will eliminate subsidies to all types of enterprises, starting from the 1997 budget, with
the exception for urban transport enterprises (limited to Tg 455 million in 1997, Tg 600
million in 1998 and Tg 700 million in 1999). Starting from 1997, budgetary loans will be
restricted only to public enterprises in electricity and heating, with the exception of loans to
two state-owned enterprises included in the State Property Committee-led enterprise
restructuring exercise. We will ensure that as of the year 1999 these loans are extended on at
market terms. During the interim, we will provide loans at rates linked to the central bank
bills rate such that in 1997, the loans will be provided at two points below the central bank
bills rate; in 1998, at the central bank bills rate; and in 1999, loans will be provided at market
rates of interest. In this connection, we will ensure that household consumers of energy and
fuel are appropriately safeguarded. The overall budgetary outlays, both current and capital
expenditures-, will adhere to the limits as agreed under the ESAF program. As part of the
medium-term reform program, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) will reduce the level of
arrears in public enterprise loan repayments to the budget to 25 per cent of loans outstanding
by end of 1997, to 10 percent by end- 1998, and 0 percent by end- 1999.
Enterpise'Restructuring. Many defaulting enterprises are potentially viable and may
generate sufficient' cash flows to service their debts once appropriately restructured. With
assistance from IDA, the State Property Committee (SPC), exercising its ownership rights on
behalf of the Government, will initiate pilot restructuring exercises for two large, state-
owned enterprises--the Darkhan Mini-metal plant and the Bagahangai Meat Processing plant.
These two enterprises are among the largest defaulters to the banking sector with total Tg 3
billion loans in arrears, and also have Tg 1.7 billion in budgetary arrears. The restructuring
program will involve isolation from the banking sector and other financiers (such as other
enterprises), a viability assessment which will lead to the drawing up of a restructuring plan
if the enterprise is deemed viable, and a liquidation plan otherwise. The restructuring
program will be limited to passive restructuring measures and will be time-bound.
Enterprises unable to operate independently upon completion of the restructuring exercise
will be liquidated. The liquidation decision will be made by the SPC, in consultation with
MOF. The restructuring program will be financed by the budget which will provide working
capital loans during the isolation period. Tg 2.5 billion has been allocated for the SPC-led
restructuring exercise of Darkhan and Bagahangai companies during 1997-1998. By the end
of 1997, viability assessments of the two enterprises will be completed, and restructuring or
liquidation plans approved. By end-1998, the restructuring (or liquidation) exercise will be
completed for the two selected enterprises.
Private Sector Development. We are strongly committed to the development of the
private sector and view the private sector as the key to enhancing our country's medium-term
growth prospects. The previous government kept many essential sectors under control for
too long. This has prevented development of a competitive private sector in areas such as
meat storage, flour mills, wheat production, and petroleum products. It is our view that rapid



-61-                             ANNEX4
price increases and liberation of these sectors are necessary in order for private competition
to develop. In September 1996, we freed the price of most energy products and other
commodities, and eliminated measures that prevent the full play of market forces and
competition (both domestic and foreign) in the economy, including eliminating policy
barriers to entry and exit, and opening the economy to international trade and foreign
investment.  We are strengthening the economic legal framework, and we are building
regulatory capacity in sectors where regulation is appropriate. We intend to present a Draft
Insolvency Law to the fall session of Parliament. Our commitment to a liberal trade regime
is reflected in accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) and our removal of the ban
on raw cashmere exports. Our economy is perilously dependent on copper export earnings,
and new industries and sectors appropriate for an outward competitive economy need to be
developed. By eliminating support to obsolete businesses, we will allow resources to be
reallocated to these better uses. We are also working to enhance private participation in a
few select social sector enterprises (e.g. technical school, pharmaceutical company,
hospitals).
StrenEtheninE the Social Safety Net and Povertv Alleviation
Our people need improved social services, such as quality education, reliable health
care and adequate pension and unemployment insurance. As we continue our reforms to a
market economy, we must take care to protect the most vulnerable groups of society affected
by the transition process. Protection of vulnerable groups remains a high priority for my
Government.  Our goal is to ensure that all citizens have equal opportunity to decent
education, adequate health care, and the chance to use their skills to develop and earn in a
market environment. But of course not everyone can or does succeed, and particularly
during these times of rapid change, many people have been put in jeopardy. With assistance
from ongoing projects, such as IDA's Poverty Alleviation for Vulnerable Groups Project
under the umbrella of the Govemment's Poverty Alleviation Program, we aim to make a
careful analysis of the extent and causes of poverty in Mongolia, and to design and
implement quickly a well-targeted adequate system of support for these people. We will also
continue to take measures to reduce child mortality, and to improve the health and education
of children.
The Govemment of Mongolia welcomes IDA's BESAC supervision team to monitor,
jointly with my authorities, the implementation of the Action Plan and all other facets of the
medium-term reform program.
Mendsaikhany Enkhsaikhan
Prime Mviinister of iviongolia
Attachment: ivlatrix of Key Policy Actions.



Instiluitional                Compiction                    Mionitoring
Objectivc                  Policy lVcasurc               Responsibility                    Datc                       Indicators
X       I1. Blank Reforms
Z 1.1 fank Rcstructuiring    Placc Pcoplc's Bank and                  BOM                   By Board Prcscnlalion     Rcccivcr appointcd.
Insurance Bank under
reccivership
Establish and liccnsc thc ncw           BOM                    Dy Board Prcsentation     Savings bank and
Savings Bank and the ncw                                                                 Rcconsitrction bank
Rcconstruction Bank                                                                      cstablished/ liccnsed.
Submit 1997 budgct to                   MOF                    By Board Prcscntation     1997 Budget.
Parliamcnt vith lg 16 billion
spccifically carmarked to
financc the bank rcstructuring
cxercisC
Establish MARA, wvith                   MOF                    Crcdit Effectiveness      Establishi MARA. Chartcr of
powers and responsibilitics                                                              MARA stibmittcd to IDA.
acccptabic to IDA
Prcparc privatization plans,          BOM; SPC                    By July 1, 1998        Privatization plans
acccptable to IDA, to                                                                    complcted.
privatize all state-owned
banks
Compicte a revicw of the             BOM; MOJ                    By July 1, 1998        Rcport of Banking Law
impleimcntation of the       *                    '                                      implementation.
banking law sincc cnactment
1.2 Stopping lic nlowv of had  Issuc a Central Bank                   BOM                   By Board Prcscntation     BOM Regulation.
loans                     Regulation, requiring all



Instilulional                 Compietion                    Mlonitoring
Ohjectivc                  Policy Mcasure                Rcsponsibility                    Date                       Indicators
banks to report on a monthily
basis thcir ten largcst loans
i                                     outstanding
Establish a Crcdit                      BOM                   By Crcdit Effcctivencss    CIB cstablished in BOM.
Information B[ureau (CIB)
consolidating periodic rcports
from all commercial banks of
borrowcrs in default
Movc the Credit Infonnation             BOM                   By December 31, 1998       CIB movcd to indepcndcnt
B3urcau to an organimation                                                               organization.
independent of BOM
1.3 Debt Workout             Establish DWU in T&D                  T&D bank                 By Board Prcsentation      DWU in T&D bank
bank, withi functions                                                                    cstablished.
satisfactory to IDA, and witlh
its operations oversccn by a
Director-level manager and
supported by fotir full-time
T&D bank staff
Completc viability            T&D bank and four seiectcd      Dy December 31, 1997       Viability assessments of the
assessments for all four              enierprises                                        fottr seiected entcrprises.
selected enterprises
Complete implementation of      T&D bajt.k and selcoted       By December 31, 1998       Liquidation/rcstructuring
restructuring/liquidation             enterprises                                        completed.
plans of selcctcd entlerprises



lnstitutional                Complction                    Aonitoring
Objectivc                 Policy Mcasure                Responsibility                    Datc                       Indicators
2. Enterprisc Rcform
2.1 Hard Bhltlget Constraint  Eliminate all Government               MOF                   By Board Prcscntation             1997 Budgct.
subsidies to enterpriscs,
starting from thc 1997                                         Novcmber 31, 1997                1998 Budgct.
budget, with the exception for
urban transport entcrpriscs                                    November 31, 1998                1999 Budget.
which will bc limitcd to Tg
455 million in 1997, Tg 600
million in 1998, and Tg 700
million in 1999
Stop all govcrnment loans,              MOF                   By Board Presentation             1997 Budgct.
cxccpt to cnterpriscs in
clectricity and heating,                                       Novembcr 3 1, 1997               1998 Bu(lget.
starting from the 1997
budget. MOF loans to tlhcsc                                    Novcmbcr 31, 1998                1999 Budgc.
cnterprises will be givcn at 2
point below the CB bills ratc
in 1997; at the CB ratc in
1998; and at market rates by
thc year 1999
Rcduce thc level of arrcars in          MOF                   By December 31, 1997      Loan arrears to budgct.
cnterprise loan paymcnts to
the budget to 25 pcrceint of                                 By Dccember 31, 1998
loans outstanding in 1997; 10
percent in 1998; and 0                                        By December 31, 1999
percent by 1999



Institutional                 Completion                     Monitoring
Objectivc                  Policy Mcasurc                 Responsibility                     Datc                       Indicators
X       2.2 Enterprise                Completc viability                        SPC                  13y Dccembcr 31, 1997       Rcslrucluring/iiqtuidation
Z          Rcstructi ring             asscssmcnts for Darkhan                                                                    plans for Darkhan minimctal
Minimctal and Bagahangai                                                                  and Bagahangai meat
Mcat plants                                                                               company drawvn up.
Approvc rcstnicturing/                SPC; MOF                   By March 31, 1998        Resinicturing /liquidation'
liquidation plans for Darkhan                                                             plans approvcd.
Minimcial and Bagahangai
Meat plants
rnlplcmcnt rcstructuring/                SPC                   By Dcccmber 31, 1998       Rcstrucluring/liquidation
liquidation plans for Darkhan                                                             compictcd.
Minimcial and Bagahangai
Mcat plants
Prcscnt Drafl Insolvcncy Law             MOI                   By Crcdit Effcctivencss     Insolvency Lawv prcscntcd.
to IDA
Prcscnt Drafl Insolvcncy Law             MOJ                   fly Scpicniber 30, 1997     Insolvency Law prcscntc(l.
to Parliamcnt, satisfactory to
IDA
Prepare privatizalion program            SPC                       By July 1, 1997        Privatization program
for state-owned entcrprises,                                                              approved.
to the salisfaction of IDA



- 66 -                                       ANNEX5
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS1
1. Bank-ing Refornm
INPUT                        OUTPUT                        OUTCOME                          IMPACT
Commercial Bank
Restructuring
Two large insolvent banks      Savings bank,                  Financial deepening as
closed/liquidated; Two other   Reconstruction bank, and       measured bv increase in
large troubled banks put       Mongolia Asset Recovery        M2/GDP, from 23% in 1996
under strict restructuring     Agency established.            to 30% by end 1998.
contracts.
Stopping Loans to Defaulters.
Reporting mechanism            Lending to defaulters ceases,    Improved asset quality of
established for monthly        resulting in reduction in total    individual banks, measured
monitoring of commercial       non-performing loans as a       through repayment record of
bank lending.                  percentage of total loans       new loans oiven since 1997
from5 1 % in 1996 to 30% by    by end 1998.
end 1997.
Recovery of Nonperforming
Loans
Establishment of Debt         Loan repayment/workout         Recovery of 30 percent of       Establishment of similar
Workout Unit in T&D Bank.   scheduled determined for four   outstanding loans to T&D         workout exercises in other
Provision of consultant       selected private enterprises.   Bank of the four selected      commercial banks by end
Services.                                                     enterprises by end 1998.        1999.
(financing: BELTAC)
The matrix of performance indicators reflects the synergy between BESAC and BELTAC, particularly
with regard to enterprise reform. Input, process and output indicators for banking reform primarily
reflect TA provided by other institutions (ADB, IMF). The output and outcome indicators will be
evaluated soon after the program ends, while the impact indicators will be evaluated two to three years
thereafter.



-67 -                                       ANNEX5
2. Enterprise Reform
INPUT                        OUTPtlT                      OUTCONIE                       IMPACT
Public Enterprise
Restructuring and Debt
Recovery
Establishment of SPC-led      Financial restructuring or    Implementation schedule for    Darkhan Minimetal and
public enterprise restructuring    liquidation and debt service    restructuring/liquidation  Bagahangai Meat plants
exercise. Provision of        plans prepared for two        developed for the two selected    restructured/liquidated by
consultant services.          selected public enterprises.  enterprises by end 1997.        end 1998.
(financing: BELTAC)
Formnal insolvency procedures    SPC-led restructuring
established.                   /insolvency model extended
to other public enterprises.
Hardening Public Enterprise
Budget Constraints
Passage of 1997 Budget.       Elimination of all subsidies to   Transparency ofpublic      Reduction of budget
public enterprises and       expenditures and more           deflcit/GDP ratio from 9%
entities, except urban       etTective targeting of          in 1996 to 7.3% in 1999.
transport.                   budgetary expenditures.
Stop all Govemment loans      Electricity and heating        Electricity and heating
except to public enterprises in  enterprises receive loans at 2  enterprises receive loans at
electricity and heating.     points below central bank bills  central bank bills rate in 1998,
rate in 1997.                 and at market rates in 1999.



- 68 -                                      ANNEX6
Mongolia at a glance                                                                  3/28/97
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                East    Low-
Mongolia       Asia  income        Development diamond
Population mid-i 995 (millions)                          2.5      1,706    3.180
GNP per capita 1995 (USS)                               310        800       440                Life expectancy
GNP 1995 (billions US$)                                  0.8      1.365    1.399
Average annual growth, 1990-95
Populabon (%)                                            2.1        1.3      1.7      GNP                               Gross
Labor force (%)                                          2.9        1.4      1.7      per                              pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                               capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (X of population)
Urban populabon (% of total population)                  61         31        29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         65         68        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 55         40        69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               10         23        41
Access to safe water (% of population)                     ..       77        67
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      ..        17        34
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    97        117       105                 Mongolia
Male                                                   95        120      112                 Low-income group
Female                                                100        116       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985       1996     1996
.Economic ratios- 
GDP (billions US)                                ..      2.5        1.0      1 0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                    ..    56.4       26.4      22.4             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GDP     .      23.9      54.0      43.5
Gross domestic savings/GDP                       ..    25.6        284      20.2
Gross national savings/GDP                       ..       ..       26.7                                A
Current account balancelGOP                     ..   -32.2        -4.2    -11.9
Interest payments/GDP                            ..      0.0       0 8       0.9      Savings         S            Investment
Total debt/GDP                                   ..      0.1      53.6      54.9
Total debt service/exports                      ..       0.0        8.7     12.4
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..       ..      34.4
Present value of debt/exports                   ..        ..      61.4                            Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1996       1996  199745
(average annual growth)                                                                        Mongolia
GOP                                    ..    -1.9        6.3        26
GNP per capita                          .     -2.8       6.9                                    Low-income group
Exports of goods and nfs
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985       1995     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                            Growth rates of output and investment
Agriculture                                     ..    14.4         36.7     30.9        -
Industry                                        ..    36.2        35.1      35 4       5 
Manufacturing                                            -
Services                                        ..    49A4        28.2      33.7        -    9      92         94   95    f
Private consumption                             ..    46.8        56.5      639 i9      -
General govemment consumption                           27.6      15.1      159 9GDI   -                         DP
Imports of goods and non-factor services                54 7      52.0      45 7
1975-85  1986-96       1995     1996
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     ..       3.3        5.8      4 7
Industry                                         .      -3 4       14 8      0.1
Manufacturing
Services                                                -1.8        0.8      3 5
Private consumption
General government consumption
Gross domestic investment
Imports of goods and non-factor services
Gross national product                                   0.0        91       2.0
Note 1996 data are preliminary estimates Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicatorsmIn the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete



- 69-                                           ANNEX6
Mongolia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                  1         1985        1995      1996       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                                 300 -
Consumer pnces                                                         56.8       50 0     20
Implicit GOP deflator                                       -1.4       42.5      210 0      00
Government finance
(% of GDP)                                                                                   5
Current revenue                                             52.5       31t6      24 6               9a        92    93    9A    95    95
Current budget balance                                       3.1        7.1        4 4                     GOP def  -0--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                                 4.1       -9 3
TRADE
1975      1986       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                               Exportand importlevels (mill USS)
Total exports (fob)                                                     486       430      600 -
Copper                                                                258       191
Meat                                                        ..          .         .-
Manufactures                                                             -400                                 T
Total imports (cif)                                            .        489       511
Food                                                                   37                 200OO
Fuel and energy                                               .        88
Capital goods                                                .        149        
Export price index (1987=100)                                                                    90   91   92   93   94   95   96
Import price index (1987= 100)                                                            |               Expons      i Impors
Terms of trade (1987=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975      1985       1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                              Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and non-factor services             -      639         531       470       a
Imports bf goods and non-factor services                   1.407        546       589            o 90   91 j  92   93  9I41  91
Resource balance                                            -768        -15      -119               I    Il
Net factor income                                            -45        -23         6       "  j
Net current transfers                                          0         -3        -2
Current account balance..                                                                     I      -
before offeial transfers                                  -813        -40      0115        20
Financing items (net)                                       844          71       100
Changes in net reserves                                      -31        -31        16       so -
Memo:                                                                                      _
Reserves including gold (mill. US3)                                     123       125
Conversion rate (locaWJS$)                                   3.7      448 6     548.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975      1985       1994      1995
(millions US$)                                                                             Composition of total debt. 1995 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                           3        447       512
IBRO                                              -         0           0         0                        G       8
IDA                                                         0         4          59 
Total debt service                                             0         39        47    I
IBRD                                                        0           0         0                                      47
IDA                                                         0           0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                             0          62        74    i
Official creditors                                          0          58        81                             \        D
Private creditors                                           3         -22       -14                    X110
Foreign direct investment                                   0          10        10                  E      -   -
Portfolio equity                                            0           0         0204
World Bank program
Commitments                                                 0          30        10       A - IBRO                      E Baaceral
Disbursements                                               0          17         8       8 - ?DA   0 - 0her multblateral   F . Private
Principal repayments                                        0           0         0    . C - MF                         G - Shorlterm
Net flows                                                   0          17         8
Interest payments                                           0           0         0
Net transfers                                               0          17         8
International Economics Department                                                                                              3/28/97






Ot                           96                           l 100 104*                                                                                ,> IBRO 26450
> _                        _          <                                ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAKE   >                       '       /   ' iJ
Z --? t X ~~~~~~~~~RUSSIAN FEDERATION  j
U,s
I o - 2U^oBULMNGOM~~   <kg          S      CHINA
\4l!OVDs '                           -<  DZAVHAN                       (                 rnj
ULIASTAY                      HRANODAY                                                                                                       DOYNO
N' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  ) i.-_                                                                                O'6                                                                 D'iO'RN g  > \   X0 ShPODQue
HOVD
) - g Y ALlAY                                                          Ol8L o - _                                                                        D ^' <to" O EBARUUNURT    - -
CHINA                                                                                           A YNHeG,    V
GOB/-ALTAY                       /                   OVORHANGAY                -          SMANDALGOBo
Se,so.h49 _  z   O                                     B~~~UNDCOBI                                                          /
.4  \     ew                                            ..                                      ;u                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAYNSAX
B-7   EAYANHONGOR 5              ,;               obeMO                              OtownO 3r4>g                                MONGOLIA
)                                             ,  '~~~~~~~~~~~_                                 DORNOG081B          \
\\ ~~~~~~RIVERS
\   -  DALANDZADGAD                                                                                              h_->.h'SALT LAKES
K LOME ERS 0   iO   OX  53  *00   %   61           t      OMNOGOBI   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - *s                              /                           FA RWEATHER ROADS, TRACKSR OATERROADSTTRCKS RR TAJL
K LCMETERS 0   00  100  050  200                                                                             O NG B                                                                                        L-ETE  ADO  OS UFC  OD
/                                         ;               /                           -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
M.IES 0     50      100      150     200                                                                                                                                                              ARFIELDS
:   - E   S   E       _                                            +  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
<                                                                        O ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED TOWNS / VILLAGES
(D AlfMAK CAPITALS
rhe boundorf s c1dsO domrn/ tfoOn5 <he pOntof rh word Elonk                                                                                             NATIONALCAPITAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATIOAL CPITA
Group, onz ludom nr on rh 1 2l s orus of onr rerrlrorg. or ont            _  /                                                                            AfMK. 80UND^IES~~~~~MAK BONDARIE
*1t001lo.som   or apO.pon ot such60I bo,odoals                                                                                                                                                            -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNODARIES
97                               96                                lOP                                 o.7                               0r                                 FOr                                                       99
OCTOBER 1994









IMAGING
Report No.: P        7040   MOG
Type:      PR



