Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Chi'. /G 0ŽK7
Report No. 5427-ZR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAIRE
SEEDS PROJECT
May 14, 1985
Central Agricultural Division
Eastern and Southern African Projects
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed vithout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EXCEANGE RATE a)
Currency - Zaire (Z)
1 Z - $0.033
1$ - Z 35
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                             English/American Equivalen
1 hectare (ha)                                     2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                                   0.624 miles
1 kilogram (kg)                                    2.2 pounds (lb)*
i metric ton (t)                                   2,204 pounds
CROP CONVERSION RATES
1 kg paddy                                         0,63 kg rice
1 kg cassava                                       0,35 kg cosettes
1 kg groundnuts unshelled                          0,70 kg shelled groundauts
a) As of 12/20/84. Average exchange rates previous years:
1984 - 33.75; 1983 - 12.89; 1982 - 5.75; 1981 - 4.38.



FOR OFCAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
Seeds Project
ACRONYMS
BUNASEM    Bureau National de Semences
National Seed Bureau
CIMMYT     International Center for Maize and Wheat Development
Centro International de Hejoramiento de NaIs y Trigo
CEDERIM    MWEKA Rural Development Project
Centre de Developpement Rural Intégré de Mweka
CODAIK     Compagnie de Developpement de l'Agriculture Intégré de
Kikwi.
The Kikwit Company for Integrated Rural Development
CS         Compagnie Sucrière de Kwilu Ngongo
The Kwilu Ngongo Sugar Company
DADR       Département à l'Agriculture et du Développement Rural
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
DAGP       General Direction of Project Administration
Direction d'Administration Générale de Projets
DES        Département de l'Enseignement Supérieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique
Department of Righer Education and Scientifique Research
DPV        Directorate for Plant Production of the Ministry of
Agriculture
Direction de Production Végétale du Département à
l'Agriculture et du Développement Rural
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization
FAC        French Kinistry of Cooperation
Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération
FCD        Fonds de Convention pour le Développement
Development Agreamen. Funds
EDF        European Development Fund
Fond Européen de Développement
IDA        International Development Association
Association Internationale pour le Développement
IITA       International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
Institut International de 1'Agriculture Tropical
INERA      National Institute for Agricultural Research
L'Institut National pour l'Etude et la Recherche Agricole
ISNAR      International Service National Agricultural Research
PRAF       Applied Research and Training Program.
Projet de Recherche Appliqué et Formation
PAT        Technical Assistance Project
Projet d'Assistance Technique
PMKO       Maize Project in East Kasai
Projet Mals au Kasai Oriental
PNE        National Fertilizer Program
Programme National d'Engrais
Thi docmnt has a resicted ditibution and may bc used by recieuts only in ite perfomane of
their ofi dutie Its centents may not oterwirse be ducsed without Word Bak authorizatmn.



PNL        National Grain Legumes Program
Programme National de Legumes
PUN        National Maize Program
Programme National du Mals
PUR        National Rice Program
Programme National du Riz
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
PRONA»     National Cassava Program
PROGRANME National de Manioc
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
Programme des Nations Unies pour le DMveloppement (PNUD)
USAID      United States Agency for International Development



-i-
ZAIRE
SEEDS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMARY                                              iv
Definition of types of seeds and cuttings                               vi
I THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.  Introduction                                                    1
B. Agricultural Sector                                              2
C. Agricultural Services                                            4
D. Government Strategy for Agricultural Development                 6
ER  Bank Group Support for Agriculture                              7
II  THE EXISTING SEED PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEN                8
A. General                                                          8
B.  Cultïvar Improvement                                            9
C.  Cultivar release and Quality control                           10
D.  Seed production                                                il
E.  Seed Marketing and Promotion                                   12
F.  Sub-sector Issues and Policies                                 12
III THE PROJECT                                                        14
A.  Project Concept and Rationale                                  14
B.  General Description                                            15
C.  Detailed Features                                              16
D.  Project Costs                                                  22
E.  Financing                                                      23
F.  Disbursements                                                  24
G. Procurement                                                     25
H.  Accounts and Audits                                            26
I.  Environmental Impact                                          26
IV  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                             27
A.  General                                                        27
B.  Organization                                                   27
C.  Management of Project Components                              29
D.  Reporting                                                      33
E.  Monitoring and Evaluation                                      34



-ii-
Page No.
V     SEED PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION UNDER THE PROJECT               35
A. Demand for Seeds                                              35
B. Production of Seeds                                          36
C.  Distribution of Seeds                                       39
VI    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                               39
A.  Market and Prices                                           39
B.  Financial Projections                                       40
C.  Farmers' incomes                                            41
D.  Cost recovery and fiscal analysis                           42
E.  Credit                                                      43
F.  Budgetary System                                            44
VII   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                           44
A.  Justification and Benefits                                  44
B.  Economic Analysis                                           46
C.  Risks                                                       47
VIII  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECONMENDATIONS                     48
Supporting Tables and Axnnexes
Tables
_.  General information per region                               51
2.  General climatic data of main regions                        52
3.  Project cost summary by category and component               53
4.  Disbursements from IDA credit and co-financier grant         54
5.  Annual estimated costs by category and sources of finance  55
6.  Estimated disbursement achedule                              57
7.  Procurement distribution                                     58
8.  Summary of training activities                               59
9. Area planted for controlled seed production including
outgrowers                                                 60
10.  Volume of production per seed farm, including outgrowers   61
11. Estimated yield levels
Farm budgets and relation of seed prices to return to
labor per day                                              62
12.  Estimated cost of production and seed prices
Econov'ic Analysis                                         63
Cash Flow Statements and Rate of Return Analysis for:
13.    Kwilu Ngongo                                               64
14.    Pindi                                                      65
15.    4'Poy                                                      66
16.    Shaba                                                      67
17.    Haut-Zaire                                                 68
Return to Farmers Family Labor for:
18.    Maize                                                      69
19.    Rice                                                       70
20.    Groundnuts                                                 71
21.    Beans                                                      72



-iii-
Page No.
22.    Soybeans                                                73
23.    Project Cash Flow                                       74
24.    Goverament Cash Flow                                    75
25.    Economic Rate of Return Analysis                        76
Annexes
Annex   I   Production of Major Fooderops                      78
Annex  II   Cultivar Improvement                               80
Annex III   Selected Documents and Data Available in the       83
Project File
Charts
1.  Department of Agriculture and Rural Development            85
2.  Structure of Agricultural Research                         86
3.  Bureau National de Semences                                87
4. Project Structure                                           88
5.  Organizational chart seed farms                            89
6. Project Implementation Schedule                             90
Maps
IBRD 18447  Development structures major foodcrop areas
IBRD 18448  Seed production and agricultural research
centers
IBRD 18449  Rainfall and elevation



-iv-
ZA4
SERS PROJECT
CREDIT AMD PROJECr SUMA&RY
Borrower:    Republic of Zalre
Beoeliciary: Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
Amoimt:      SDR 15.10 million (US$14.88 million equivalent)
Terms:       Standard IDA terms.
Project      The project would be the initial five year tine slice of a long term
effort to establish a viable seed industry ln Zaire with increasing
participation of the private sector. The project would increase the
production, diffusion and quality of controlled seeds of the main food
crops in Bas-Zaire, Banduadu, YCsai Orlental, Shaba and Haut Zaire.
Project activities would include: (i) establishment and operation of a
National Seed Bureau; (ii) assistance to research stations for the
production of base-seeds; (iii) establishuent and operation of five
eeedfarms; (iv) assistance to other existing seedfomei; (v)
development of a seed quality control system; (vi) training; (vii)
special studies and pilot projects and (viii) the employment of expert
services.
Project      The project vould improve yields of food producing farmers directly by
Benefits:    providing seeds and cuttings of higher production potential snd
Indirectly by increasing the cost-effectiveness of other inputs such
as fertilizer and la,r.  Production of maize, cassava, rice, peanuts
and grain legumes woxuld increase significantly, thereby assisting
Zafre in itB goal of achieving food self-sufficiency. The Project
.ould also improve the annual income of about 10  of the small farmers
ln Zaire. Thie project ould assist in developing a self sustalning
seed industry and a seed quality control system, train the required
tecbmical staff, and initiate the necessary seed legislation.
Riaks:       The project's main riaks are those associated with the overall
situation of Zairisn economy, including shortage of local professional
staff and of local financial resources, and the proper coordination of
all agencies participating ln the establishmunt of a seed production
structure. The impact of such riaka on Project implementation vould
be reduced to a certain extent by the requirement that seed production
uaits would be managed by agencies acceptable to IDA; Gbvernnent uould
appoint a qualified expert as Director of the National Seed Bureau;
and that Goverrnment continues to improve resource allocation and
financial magemet in the agricutlural sector. An Intensive staff
training and tecinical assistance program would also support project
iupleuentation. At project level the major risk is the adequate
supply of base seeds needed for seed miltiplication and the farmer's
receptivity to the use of ilproved seed8 at commercial price levels.
O,naequently, specific provisions are made under the project to assist
research stations respoaslble for the production of base seeds and to
proante seed sales based on regional markieting strategies, with
strengthbtlng of on-going extension and rural development efforts.



(v)
(US$ udl±oei)
lam                   Total   z CE Total  Z£ofPOi81p
Baue cats   ___lge
Nia    l Seed Keai               0.79        0.66       1.45       9           46
Sud Fon                          3.56        3.56       7.12      43           50
Aasta   to Otlr Sed Par        0.05        0.18       0.23       1           78
SFd Qa1±ty  xtro1l               0.57        0.49       1.06       7           46
Mslsora= to Rearch Ceiteu        0.77        1.32       2.0       13           63
Profs±nul Tranlrg                0.37        0.97       1.34       8           72
St2d±u Md Pilot Projecta         0.11        0.39       0X         3           78
Tecahioel Assatae                0.40        2.15       2.55      16           84
Totiase0Cxts                     6.62                   16.3      100
PtlyLal 0ximznd.e                0.40        0.52       0.92       6           56
Pre                               1 1.78     2.21       3.99      24           56
Total Project Cests              8.80        12.45     21.25      130          59
(cf uiich M1s m1 Dutes)        (0.06)       -        (0.06)   (0.3)           -
7«Eim1g Pla
LoaFlrTotal  Z cf Total Cots
Govienoem                        2.01         -         2.01      9.5
Sales of  1x±roUad Smede         2.47         -         2.47     11.6
MÉL                              3.75       11.13      14.8      70.0
Umm                              0.57        1.32       1.89      8.9
Total (iKauJdI  tmc)             8.80       12.45      21.25    100.0
Bat=t4td W oemit.
(13$ umlxi)
ML Ploel yea          F86   F!87   FMS    FM    FM9    F91
Amni                  1.5    2.4    2.8    3.1    3.0    2.1
muilative             1.5    3.9    6.7    9.8   12.8   14.9
Rate of Iaeb: 44 peroent (oer MOJ perœe  of tol projée  cœts)
Mp: I 4D 18447, We. 18449.



-vi-
ZAIRE
SEUDS PROJECT
DEPINITIONS OF CATE WORIES 0F SEED
Ths terms used to describe  eed produced at difforent stages
of the multiplication procaus vary considerably batwson couatries and
authorities. The following definitions *pply oaly to this projecet:
1. Breeder Seed. Soed produced undcr direct control of the plant breeding
institution and used as the source for all following ganerations.  The
procaus involves maintaining, through solaction, the types of plants
defined and registered la the catalogue of cultivare. Production la
carried out by the agricultural research stations and national crop
prograse.
2.  Base Soed or Foundation Soed.  The progeny of broeedr and prebase s*ed
produced in *uch a way et to maintain a satisfactory lavel of genetic
purity and identity, under sanitery conditions judgad satisfactory by the
controlling agency. It is eeod propagated on a sufficimntly large scale to
enable certified or commercial *eed to bu produced at the final otage of
the procacs. Production ia carried out by qualified specialiste aither
geneticistu or experts in mmed production and mootly by the national crops
programa und research Institutions by or by central s*edfarms under close
control by these institutions.
3. Controlled or Commrcial S9ed. The prog.ny of foundation seed, handled
to maintain satisfactory gmnmtic purity and ldentity, and grown under
acceptable sanitary conditions. Thue, the la-t link in the chain, la used
to produce the sead sold to grovers of food cropa. Production is carried
out by sedfdarms or selected *killed farmer., lnstructed and supervised by
the technical staff of seed farm.. Au a temporary measure, and Ii viev of
conditions in Zaire and the need to supply tbe market until an adequate
certification systea can be establilhed, the se*d producad by the
Governmant-approved agencles can be officially labelled as a controlled
seed, If they meet the precleo production standardt of the National S.ed
Bureau vith respect to varistal characteristice and *ecd quality,
particularly as regarde humidity, germination capacity and purity.
DEFINITION OF CATECORIES OF CUTTINCS
4. Breoder Cuttunge.  Caesva cuttinga produced under the direct
supervision of the cessava r*search centers. They vill be wsed to produce
all future genarations of cuttingo. In particular, these cuttinge vill be
produced by the National Cassava Program (PRONAM) at its  O'Vuazi station.
5. Uase Cuttinge. The progeny of broeder cuttingu grown to be
satisfactorily vigorous and produced under acceptable ranitary conditions.
Tbey vull be produc«d at rseéarch institutas or central seed farns under
PRONAX supervision, using production techniques dieseulnated by that
agency.
6. Controlled Cuttlinge. These are the progeny of base cuttiags grovu to
be satisfactorily vigorous and produced under acceptably sanitary
conditions satisfactory to the controllinga aency.  This category refers to
cuttings produced at seed farus sd by soloctd skilled farierr  using
PRONAN techbiques, sud under control of personel of seed farm.



SEEDS PROJECT
STAPF ArPRUISAL REPOtT
I. BAcKGR0UND
A. Introduction
1.01      The proposed S.eds/lssearch project is one of several
IDA-supported projecta designéd to improve the fooderop situation in
Zaire.  The project vould increase production of tb  maIn foodcropa
cassava,  aIze, rice, grouadnute and grain leguues through the provision of
*eode and cuttinga of higher production potential amd the control of eed
quality. Project activities would ai% to integrate the privat. sector in
soed production vith thé ultimata goal to &*Lot che Covernomnt of Zaire In
entablishing a self-sustaining oaed-iidustry.
1.02      The proposed project vas prouented In Jun 1982 by th  Cowvernuunt
of Zaire et a Consultative Croup moettng in Paris, exclutsvely dedicated to
agricultural developmnt. Subsequent to FAO *nd IDA identification and
preparation miausons a project proposal vas prepared ia llrch 1984, by a
consultant preparation tea  financed under an IDA Project Proparatlon
Facility. Goverunmet, giving the higheot priority to the revitaliaation
and improvemant of seed-production, inviced IDA to appraiS the proposed
project promptly thoreaiter. This report in basd on the findiags of an
IDA - appraisal mission which visited Zaire in June/July 1984, composed ctf
E. Lon, L. Truong, Y. Karmokolias, (ID=) and M. Couillaud (Consultant).
Representatiweb  of the Zairian Govern mt and of the UDt/FAO *1o
participated in *ission activitles.
1.03      Important adjustuants mde to the original proposal  ia the
preparation report are aimd at s.curing the edequate provision of
base-seed. from tb. rerarch conters to the  *ed forms and at strength.ning
the promotion and arketing function of the tend faras and the coordinating
role of the National Soed Bureau, In order to create a sound economle basis
for future developuent.  Iu addition, at thc  roquast of the Zairian
Covera mnt, the nuaber of *ed-farms »a  incr.ased fron 4 to 5 by including
provisions for establishing à soed-fara la the north of tb  country la the
Raut-Zaire region. Specifically, th s. adjustuentt lavolv Increased
support for tl production, processing snd storage of baee-s&odc at a
number of reearch stations, sud th. inclueliod   of studios for th.
formulation of site specific seed marketing policies. The changes have
been discussed and accepted by Government.
1.04      The proposed project vould be the tvelfth project fiamnced in the
Zairian agricultural sector by the Sank group for a total of US$124.7.
Total coste of thes. projeccs, lncluding co-fianncing, amount to US$343.S.
ID addition, tic B ak Croup has fiaaaced *Lx linm  of credit to a local
dev.lop.ant finance company, SOFIDE, which included about US$17.0 milliou
for approxiately USM24.0 million vorth of agricultur*l laventuents.
Information on amplementation experience with the egricultural portfolio in
provlded ia para 1.20.



-2-
B. The Agricultural Sector
C neral
1.05      Zaire covers about 2.3 million km2, and bas considerable
agricultural potential. It l estimated that about 30-35Z of the total
land arm is suitable for agricultural devolopuent, although only about 5X
te currently under cultivation or developed as ranches. Straddling both
aides of the equator, the country fallu into four major ecological zones:
(1) rein forent; (il) mixed forent and aavannah; (Ili) savanah bolts; and
(Iv) tropical uplmads. Rural population density in highest ln the savannah
belts and tropical uplands, and the population growth rate in estimated et
betwuen 2.2-2.8Z par annua. Rural per capite incomn, about USS110 (1982),
la mong the louant In Africa.  A vide variety of agricultural cormoditie
are grown in Zaire. The mjor staple food cropu are casseva, maize, rice,
bnanes, and beans. The most Important ldustriel crops are cotton, palm
oil and sugarcane, vhile export cropU  lnclude coffee, te&, rubber and
cocos. The liveetock sub-sector comprises cattle as we1l es smal1
ruminantr and poultry. Zaire's forestry resources are considerable but
largoly untapped. Further information on the regions in Zaire in given in
Tables 1 and 2 and Napa IIRD 18447-18449.
Agricultural Production
1.06      Agriculture provides direct employmnt to &bout 75Z of the labor
force, as voll un to an additioaal IOX employod la agro-industrial
processing. Houever, its share of CDP han stagnated recently *round 302,
and its char. of exporte fell fro. 39Z (1959) to about 10S (1981).  During
the  om_  period agricultural Imports incraced. TIe dlsappointing
performance in caused by various factors, Including: (i) difficuit
transport conditions; (I1) londequate or unclear marketing, pricing and
monettry policies; (il) limited budgetary resources devoted to the sector;
and (iv) wosk agricultural institutions. Recognizing the adverse Impact of
these factors on sector performnce, the Governuent began lmplementing an
Agrieultural Recovery Plan in 1982 (para 1.18), which intended to address
the major problemc outlined above. Although too early to draw firm
conclusions, t appeara that agricultural production ls recovering, albeit
clovly. For foodcrops, cassava production Increases in proportion to
population increase and dtmand, but yields romain lov. Maize, the second
most important foodcrop, is cultivatmd ln an expanding are and yields are
slovly improviog lu conm *reas. Hoevevr, the annuel malze deficit remaina
&round 200,000 tous. Rice cultivation ls elso expanding, but annual rice
deficits romin (currently about 60.000 tons), due to incroasing
conuamption. Further details are given In Annex I. T[h level of
technology deterioratad since the early 1970's due to economic
difficulties. Applied technology In food-crop cultivation remains below
lovels alroady obtained in the past, due to the lack of liputs,
particularly fertili:er sud seeds of good quality, and lack of price
incentives for *mall fermrs. In areas vith better egricultural services
and Input *upply, f-rmer- have reacted *trongly by improving huabandry
techniques. A suatained grovth In the agricultural sector needs the
aupport of agricultural rmsearch and the supply of lmproved *eedse  both nov
gSiven higb priority In goveru et planning.



-3-
1.07     Modern (large f arm) and traditional (snail f arm) production
systems coexist in Zaire's agi:icultural sector. About 40% of agriculture's
share of GDP is contributed b-y the modern sector and about 60X by the
traditional/subsistence sectc,r. The modexn sector is composed of large,
corporation-owned plantation:s as vell as individually owned farms and
ranches, mainly interested i.n industrial crops, and also in some foodcrops,
principally for foodsupply (af their laborforce or to secure the raw
material supply to agro-industries. In the small farm sector (with about
3-4 million farming units) a bush-fallow production system predominates and
farming techniques rely or hand labor and simple tools. The principal
crops grown are cassava, Tzaize, rice, groundnuts, beans, and cotton. The
small farm sector alsD ac;counts for about 60% of the national cattle herd.
Sector Issues
1.08      In the past the Government attempted to regulate and control the
marketing and prices of many agricultural products in order to guarantee
that the large consumption centers received adequate food supplies at
reasonable prices that would also be attractive to producers. However,
misapplication of these Govermnent measures has often bad a negative effect
on marketing and production, and their aims, though often reasonable, have
been difficult to acheLeve. Recognizing the costs of incompletely
lmplemented policies ln this area, the Government began a gradual
liberalization proces;s in 1981, culminating in 1983 in complete
deregulation of prodiacer prices, abolition of local authorities' right to
intervene in this field, and elimination of regional barriers to trade.
While these measureE. and the degree to which they are applied have yet to
be evaluated, prelinminary experience shows a positive impact on foodcrop
production mostly foir maize and cassava. The continued expansion of
inter-regional trade is expected to play an important role in stimulating
production increases; and adoption of better production methods in the major
food producing areas:.
1.09     Another is-sue having particular significance for agricultural
development is the inadequate links between agricultural research, the
supply of laproved seeds and the agricultural extension service. These
three are closely interrelated and nov receive greater attention from
government, mainly through improvement of the National Commodity Programmes
(para 2.03), the inJLtiation of the formulation of an agricultural research
strategy (para 1.13), the proposed seeds project and the support for rural
development project:s. Seed production deteriorated due to the difficult
economic situation in the mid 1970's and the lack of a consistent and
long-term seed procluction policy.  The agricultural extension service has
yet to overcome th£* aversion of farmers to dealing wit'à extension agents as
a result of the pr<vious practice, known as 'imposed cultivation". It has
persisted in various degrees in different parts of the country,
particularly where: there is competition between cash and foodcrops. As a
result, farmers are often reluctant to accept technical packages
extensioniste try to promote. Part of the solution may be found in making
extension services more farm than crop oriented. The National Commodity
Programs can contribute to this reorientation, as they are also engaged in
farm systems research. Other Important issues are the weak sector



-4-
management and the uncertain project funding.  Government is awave of these
probleus and has taken steps, since 1982, to improve the management systems
in the sector (para 1.11, 1.12, 1.18). Also an .action program has been
initiated to improve its financial management (patra 6.16). These efforts
are being supported in the context of the IDA fin.anced Technical Assistance
Project (para 1.19).
C. Agricultural Services
1.10      The principal Goverunent agencies which provide services to
support agricultural and rural development include: the Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development; the Department of Bigher Education and
Science; a number of parastatal and mixed-capital couipanies; the Departuent
of Public Works; and regional and local authorities. The meager public
resources allocated to the agricultural sector hamperE-d the development of
a firm institutional framework of agricultural services. Since 1980
Government has redefined the roles of the public and pr'.vate sector and
encouraged private sector participation in agricultura.1 development.
Consequently, the private sector is playing an increas:Angly important role
in rural development, particularly in providing extensiLon, marketing and
road maintenance services.
Sector Management
1.11      The Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (DADR) is
responsible for agricultural policy; extension, veterinary, and part of
research services; and technical supervision of parastatal institutions ini
the sector. It has broad responsibility within the Goveriment for sector
planning and for the preparation, implementation and superzvision of
agricultural projects. The DADR employs directly about 600 employees and
numerous personnel in governmental institutions and projects. Services
provided have generally been weak, due to the lack of traineâ staff, low
salary levels, insufficient funds, and weak management sytastems. To address
these deficiencies and to make DADR a more effective and efficient agency
for planning and managing key services and projects, a nuraber of important
Steps have been taken since June 1982, including: (1) reoa:ganization of
DADR along department lines at headquarters and definitioii of
responsibilities for each of these units; (ii) reduction :-n DADR personnel
rolls by 7,0001/, combined with salary increases and performance bonuses;
and (iii) reorganization of regional staff, focusing on the coordination of
sectoral activities at the regional and sub-regional level's.
Implementation of these measures is underway.
1.12      In an effort to strengthen sectoral planning and resource
management capabilities in DADR, several additional steps hlave been taken,
including: (i) establishment of an organizational structure responsible for
overall policy analysis; (ii) creation of working groups tc* review key
sector Issues,propose action measures, and monitor the impai:t of reforms
undertaken; (iii) institution of a regular review system fo;r on-going
projects, linked to periodic updating of the agricultural iravestment
1/ DADR's staffing now totals about 9,000.



program; and (iv) introduction of
functioning of financial and budg
these groups and activities is be
Technical Assistance Project (Cre
Agricultural Resea-ch
1.13      The National Institute
is an autonomous institute within
Scientific Research (DES) and it
on food crops, perennial crops, a
stations, six of which are main E
after independence, because most
neither the personnel nor the fuE
inherited from the National Agric
Congo (INEAC), which was one of t?
tropics (para 2.01). INERA suffE
inadequate salary structure, and
Staffing is also unbalanced, viti.
non-research personnel. In such
extremely limited. The DADR opez
programs(para 2.03), which are ex 
with international research instiJ
results in collaboration with de, -
experience with these programs has
(in particular for maize), due tc
turnover. Government has recentl,
programs with USAID assistance.
1.14      In 1982, INERA was trax
the Commodity Programs run by DAr
management responsibilities on tt1
an agreement to this effect has I
INERA. Hovever, the division of -
DES is still under discussion. A1i
established early 1984, which, wl
for National Research (ISNAR), he~
development plan for agriculturaJ
gradually invigorate and harmoniiz
the country, possibly in one sing
Agricultural Extension
1.15      The extension  service
and largely ineffective, due to -
.staffing, and unresponsiveness or
extension work is a vital factor
institutions and projects have iL
these services in the areas of t'-
extension is mainly provided by J
maize growing private companies '
the national comodity programs



-6-
agricultural chemicals) and ouly minimall,r by the state extension service.
These services occasionally duplicate and ov.erlap each other.  AttemPtS to
coordinate them have had limited results..  Hovever, in some areas (e.g.
Kasai and N. Shaba) improvement of exterAsion activities are underway. Such
areas vill become centers of improved s,eed production (para 2.15).
Agricultural Credit
1.16      Agricultural credit is not vell de'<eloped in Zaire. Agricultural
credit for large operators is currencly extei2ded by six commercial banks
and by the Société Financière de Développemei2t (SOFIDE), an IDA supported
development finance company establif;hed in 1970. The eligibility criteria
applied by the commercial banks and. SOFIDE defny most smallholders access to
formal credit. With the clear inttantion to address the credit requirements
of small-scale agriculture, the Go veriment established a new Agricultural
Credit Bank (BCA) in October 1982. So f ar i t has no involvement in the
provision of credit to small faru,ers. Another source of funds for
agricultural investment is a par:a-fis cal syst em known as "Development
Agreement Funds' (FCD). FCD furLds are raised through special sales tax on
agro-industrial products, and l evies on food-imports, and are used to
finance productive and infrasti:ucture investments, mainly on projects,
agreed upon between government and private firms.
Transport and Marketing
1.17      The state of Zaire.ls vast road network (145,000 ka) is critical
to effective marketing oper.ations and agricultural production incentives.
The key government institutii>n in this area is the Department of Public
Works, vith the Roads Authc,rity (OR) as its operating arm. Due to limited
funds and operational capacifgy, OR concentrates its activities only on
selected national roads. As a result many regional and rural roads are in
poor condition and deterlorating. Local authorities are officially
responsible for maintaining local roads, but they have neither the funds
nor the technical capac-Lty i:o carry this out effectively. To address the
rural road problems, DPJDR hbLs financed and operated a Rural Road
Maintenance Program for the last three years; it has relied primarily on
sub-contracting arrang,ementu with private firms or individuals.  After the
nationalization measures in the mid-1970s the trade network in the rural
areas vas practically/ destrc)yed. The lack of efficient traders at the
local level and of retail otitlets is, after difficult transport conditions,
the major marketing constrai.nt for input supply as vell as sales of
surpluses of agricultural products.  Until recently wholesale traders,
development projecrs, and the cotton companies tried to fill this gap by
rehabilitating a t rade network and supplying some inputs. The trade and
price liberalizat) on of 1983 has given a new impulse to the revival of a
retail trade network.
D. C overnment S;trategy for Agricultural Development
1.18      The >tgricultural Rtecovery Plan(1982-84), constituted at the time
the basic gove-rument strategy for agricultural development in Zaire. The
chief objectiv es of the strategy vere: (i) to make the country



-7-
self-sufficient in food crops; (1i) ta increase the production of crops
used as raw materials by local industries; and (iii) to increase export
crop production. Measures designed to achieve the Governmentts objectives
in the sector have foeussed on establishing clear procedures for cabinet
level coordination of agricultural policy, reinforcing the capacity of DADR
to plan, prepare, implement and monitor projects more effectively, and
reinforcing its capacity to address key policy issues more systematically.
Priority was given to foodcrop development through recovery of smallholder
production and rahabilitation and maintenance of existing production
capacity. Actions on many of these issues have been described earlier.
The Plan represented realistic and significant steps to address the most
important institutional and policy issues which have impeded production in
the past. Evaluation of the Agricultural Recovery Plan is currently
underway and is expected to provide valuable inputs for the preparation of
the forthcoming five year global plan (1986-1990).
E. Bank Group Support for Zairian Agriculture.
1.19      Bank support has included sector work, project financing, and a
sustained dialogue with the Government to define and address more
coherently key policy issues (such as pricing, marketing, incentives for
private sector development, credit, and training). The Bank Group has also
played an important role in helping the Government coordinate the
activities of external financing agencies in the sector by taking a
leadership role in setting up cofinancing arrangements2/ and by organizing
and chairing, under the aegis of the Consultative Group (CG), the 1977
Working Group on agriculture and the 1982 Special Meeting on agriculture.
The Bank Group has financed a total of eleven projects in the agricultural
sector. Past lending operations have addressed the rebabilitation and
expansion needs of modern agricultural enterprises (both private and
mixed-capital companies) as well as the development of basic services for
amallholders. The Bank Group's agricultural portfolio has concentrated on
several subsectors: livestock (Livestock I, Ituri Livestock Development,
Ituri Northeast Rural Development), cotton (Cotton Rehabilitation I and
Il), industrial crops (Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar, Oil Palm Rehabilitation), and
smallholder agriculture (Kasai Oriental Maize, Kwango Rwilu Technical
Assistance, Lulua Agricultural Development Project). Technical assistance
support for institutional strengthening and policy reform has also been
provided through a free-standing T.A. project. Bank Group support for
agricultural development in Zaire over the next few years vill continue to
have two main goals: (i) to help improve the policy and institutional
framework so as to create an environment conducive to increased
investuents, better management and increased outputs; and (ii) to help
increase the production of foodcrops as vell as industrial and export crops
through the financing of production-oriented projects (para 1.04).
1.20      Performance Evaluation.  The Paris meeting of the CG for Zaire in
December 1983, reviewed among others, the progress made with the
implementation of the Agricultural Recovery Plan 1982-1984. In general
satisfaction was expressed with measures taken by COZ to improve financial
2/ Nine out of eleven IDA supported projecte have involved co-financing.



-8-
and budgetary management, strengthening of the organization of the Ministry
of Agriculture, the liberalization of prices and encouragement of the
private sector and the support in developing research and seed production
strategy. eJhlle there were no reasons to alter the plan's underlying
strategy, more attention was asked for transport-agriculture linkages and
coordination of externally financed projects. The implementation
experience with Bank assisted projects has been mixed. On the one hand
Area development projects have commonly suffered from management problems,
inadequate budget allocations and shortage of qualified staffing. On the
other hand, crop oriented projects, with less direct government involvement
and with autonomous or private sector management, performed generally much
better. So far only one Project Completion Report (Report No. 4863, dated
December 30, 1983) has been prepared for the first Livestock Development
Project (cr. 398 ZR), IDA's first agricultural operation in Zaire. The
project objectives vere to increase beef production, and improve range
management.  The Project's achievements fell short of expectations due to
unusually difficult external circumstances (e.g military upheavel in the
Project area), and rapid shifts in Government policies (e.g.
zairianization, nationalization, privatization) which led to continuous
management and staffing problems, and delays in project funding.
II. THE EXISTING SEED PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
A. General
2.01      Background.  Before independence the research structure focused
mainly on export crops. Only in the fifties did foodcrops became a
subject of interest and some lasting results were achieved. The research
stations produced at that time the base-seeds for multiplication and
controlled the limited seed production. Between 1960-1964 the research
structure became inoperative, and efforts thereafrer to revive it failed
(para 1.13). In the seventies the Government, with Belgïan assistance,
designed a network of seed production centers (Centre Agronomique de
Production de Semences Améliorées, CAPSA's) which never came to full
developuent due to political events. Another seed production effort has
been undertaken in 1976 in the Shaba province at the "Domaine Kaniama
Kasese", a large scale integrated project (with Belgian bilateral aid),
with the objectives to cultivate maize as a mechanizetd plantation crop,
produce seeds, develop cattle ranging and small and medium sized farus in
the surrounding areas. After 1980 seed production and seed quality dropped
sharply (para 2.09).
2.02      With the demise of the seed production centers, the area
development projecte started to include in their programs seed production
activities. These seed components are operating on a small scale (10-50
ha), servicing a small area and the quality of their seeds depends on the
quality of the base-seeds provided to them by the research centers or the
national commodity programs, and on the quality of their field control and
seed processing. Both are currently in need of improvement. Due to
continuing operational difficulties of INERA, the DADR established in the
1970's National Commodity Programs, to ensure development support for the
main fooderops (para 1.13 and 1.14).



-9-
2.03      The Four National Commodity Programs are currently the main
guardians of the seed-stock in Zaire, except for rice seeds which are also
preserved at the INERA station at Yangambi). The National Maize Progra.
(PNM) vas established in 1971, and was operated with International Center
for Maize and Wheat Improveuent (CIMNlYT) assistance until 1981.  Thereafter
PNM vent through a difficult period vith frequent staif changes and lack of
resources. Since its inception PNM has developed varieties for different
ecological conditions in Zaire (para 1.05).  The National Cassava Progral
(PRONAM) established in 1974 and operating vith IITA assistance focuses on
the selection and diffusion of cassava varieties resistant to the main
diseases and pests (particularly bacterial blight and mealy bug). PRONAM
has identified various cultivars and is on the point of releasing some
improved varieties. The National Rice Program (PNR) established in 1974
ard receiving Chinese bilateral assistance for the promotion of irrigated
rice, has developed various rice multiplication centers. PNR faces however
enormous financial and technical difficulties.  Although several irrigated
and upland rice varieties have been imported, no headway has been made in
improving or diffusing new rice cultivars. PNR mainly multiplies the
R66-upland rice variety selected before 1960, and has difficulty
maintaining its genetic purity. The National Legume Program (PNL) was
initiated in 1979 under a USAID assisted project to assist INERA, vithout
having a formal structure as a free standing program. Its performance has
been mixed and its main achievement bas been the identification of suitable
soybean varieties for the different ecological regions of Zaire. The
national programs vlll be integrated in a USAID assisted, Programme de
Recherche Appliquée et Formation (PRAF), which vould coordinate theïr
activities, and maintain relations with the INERA-structure, until a
long-term strategy has been accepted to harmonize research efforts (para
1.13). Three programa (PNM, PNL and PRONAM) would be managed vith
assistance from IITA, while PNR would possibly receive support from the
Italian Government.
B. Cultivar Improvement
2.04      Before independence the research stations began in the fifties to
focus on the selection of food crop varieties. The main achievements are
the selection of the GPS-5 maize composite; 02864 bacteriose resistant
cassava; R-66 rice variety; and the S14 and S17 soya varieties. After
independence cultivar improvement has been interrupted and videspread
diffusion of results seriously hampered. Currently these varieties are
still in use. Since the 1970s new varieties vere imported, mainly for
selection purposes in Zaire. oaly maize seeds are imported for productive
purposes, notably the simple hybrid SR52.
2.05      Conscious of the importance of seeds of good quality-for
agricultural development and recognizing the deficiencies of the national
structure to provide better seeds, the Government took steps fo6r
improvement (para 2.01 and 2.02). The PNM produced and distributed maize
composites: a highland variety, Shaba, and varieties for medium altitude
(500-1000m) the Casai I and Salongo I. For planting in the second season
the GPS-5 is still preferred for its better disease resistance. The PNm
did not initiate the production of maize hybrids, on the grounds that they



-10-
responded best to the maize growing conditions on Bmall farms. (Annex
II). However, the interest for maize hybrid i8 increasing, particularly by
commercial farmers. Since all maize hybrids have to be imported,
Governument supports developmènts leading to selection and production of
maize hybrids in Zaire (para 3.21 and 4.20). The PRONAM program has
selected in 1981 at M'vuazi two highly productive (30 tons/ha) cultivars of
manioc, with resistance to bacteriosis: Kivuvu (30074/2) and Kinuani
(30085/28).  PNR has focused its activities on testing iiported varieties
for their suitability for Zairiau conditions. Selection of new suitable
varieties for grain legums is in its initial phase. Further information is
provîded in annex Il.
2.06      The degree of use of improved seeds is difficult to quantify.
The first research results in the 1950-1960 were not yet widely
distributed, and after 1960 further diffusion was interrupted due to
political events. After renewed activities in the seed production sector,
no accurate records were kept. Estimates can be made only for the use of
improved maize seeds. The maximum production of new maize composites has
been reached in 1980 vith about 1,500 tons of seeds. The import of maize
hybride amounted at the time to about 300 tons. The total amount
represented the seed requirement of about 50,000 hectares. Since maize is
often planted during two season the seed supply only met during that period
around 5X of the requirements of the total cultivated area. Since 1980 the
production of improved maize seeds has dropped and currently lmproved seeds
(of unknown quality) are probably used on not more than 4% of the total
cultivated area.
C. Cultivar release and quality control.
2.07      The DADR has no regulations pertaining to variety release to
farmers. Zaire has no seed legislation, does not keep a seed register, and
does not have a seed certification structure. In practice the National
Commodity Programs release the cultivars after testing at the research
centers, and the programs define their own systems of genetic purity
control. The PNM has elaborated a procedure for the production and
selection of base seeds for the main cultivars. Procedures for seed
multiplication are not formally prepared, and field control at thie seed
production centers is carried out under PNM supervision. Control records,
however, are not systematically kept.
2.08      Import- of seeds or planting material requires an authorization of
the DADR, but in practice seeds are also imported vithout proper control.
The immense border, the lack of adequate legislation and the absence of a
skilled staff make quality control of imported seeds difficult and
expensive. Quality control of seeds produced in Zaire is not carried out
by an independent organization. Currently the seed producers themselves
carry out some quality control, mostly in the field, while consumers
sometimes check the germinating capacity. Seeds are seldom treated for
protection against diseases or pests. In practice, most damage to the
physical condition of seeds is incurred during storage and transport, and
the germination power often drops to extremely low levels (down to 20Z).



-ll-
D. Seed Production
2.09      Before 1960 seed vas mostly produced by private companies for
industrial crops and at goveroment research stations. After the initial
effort to organize seed production in special centers (para 2.01)
;overament started maize seed production at the 'Domaine Kaniama-Kasese".
It started in a promising way in 1977 and produced 1,450 tons of improved
composite maize seeds in 1980 (mostly Kasai I).  After transfer of
management to Zaire, insufficient funds were made available for project
operations and activities slowed down since then, and the production
dropped in 1983 to about 200 tons and in 1984 to 500 tons of unknown
quality.  To respond to the increasirg demand for better seeds,
multiplication is nov carried out by rural development projecta, religious
inpcitutions, some cooperatives, and some private companies engaged in food
production for their labor force. The agencies involved (currently about
20) cperate at varying stages of development and in varying size (from only
a couple of hectares to 200 in Kasese). During the 1983/1984 season in
total 500 ha were planted for seed production (about 70Z maize, 20Z rice,
6% grain legumes, and 4Z cassava). Yields in seeds, after field selection
and cleaning varied considerably, shoving a possibility for significant
improvement. The total amounts of available seeds vere about 700 tons
(maize 600 tons; rice 60 tons; others 40 tons). The production for the
1984/85 is expected to increase slightly.
2.10      Seed production is currently limited by the- production capacity
of the seed production centers, and is not based on a market analysis,
because it i8 felt that the demand exceeds actual production capacity as
shown below:
Assumed
Cultivated      Seeding     Quantity      Period     Quantity
area*          rate       of seeds      for re-    of improved
(Ha)         (Kg/Ha)     required     neval of   seeds requi-
for plant-  seeds       red per year
ing (tons)   (years)    (tons)
Naize     800,000         28            22,400         4          5,600
Rice      300,000         80            24,000         5          4,800
Ground-   500,000        100**          50,000         5         10,000
nuts
^ estimated area.planted in 1983.
** unshelled
It is not known whether effective demand vill be equal to the
need for seeds, if they are offered at realistic prices needed to produce
seeds of good quality. But even if this demand falls well below the above
mentioned quantities it vill take a major effort to produce the necessary
quantities of good quality. With the improvement in seed quality and seed
marketing the demand vili probably increase, because the farmer might then
reduce the period of seed renewal. The continuing expansion of the
cultivated area, vill also contribute to a growing demand for seeds.



-12-
E. Seed Marketing and Promotion
2.11      Seeds are marketed through a variety of channels because there is
no trade infrastructure for commercial seeds. Locally produced seeds are
mostly distributed or sold through rural development projects.
agro-industrial organizations or commodity traders, combining seed
distribution vith the supply of other inputs (e.g. fertilizer) or purchase
of produce. In some cases the production centers sell directly to the
farmers (e.g. about 50% of the [asese production). Imported seeds (500
tons per annum) are sold by international seed-companies to large
commercial farmers or supplied by agro-industrial companies to
contract-producers. In general the marketing of seed does not operate
effectively due to unreliable supply and a fragmented marketing network.
The establishment of a better commercial network for seed-marketing appears
to be as important as the improvement of the seed production structure.
2.12      The folloving policy measures were taken in the 1970s to
encourage the use of improved seeds: (i) promotion of the use of improved
seeds through extension services; (ii) promotion through the PNE: (iii)
free distribution of seeds in the early 1970s; (iv) later on subsidizing
seed prices by distributing seeds at a low (price about 30-40% of costs);
and (v) financing transport costs from production site to farmgate. This
policy did not produce the expected results, because the supply of seeds of
good quality decreased continuously over the last years, and it created the
misleading expectation in the farmers community that the Government should
be responsible for free seed distribution. Folloving the recent economic
measures, the Goveroment intendg to reverse its policy and aime to increase
seed production and promote seed supply at cost price.
2.13      There are some encouraging examples of successful marketing by
developuent projects wbere its management tried to build in some lncentives
combined with improvement of extension services. In the Bank-assisted PMKO
project the combined supply of fertilizers and seeds contributed
substantially to production increases and made the farmers responsive to
the use of improved seeds. The PNS project promoted seed sales at harvest
time, when farmers had cash available and the EDF supported CEDERIN project
introduced payment in kind, laying the groundwork for a gradual acceptance
of payment in cash once a better market mechanism had been established.
The marketing and extension experience of such projects could very vell
serve as reference points for the promotion of controlled seeds in new
areas, although .the systems are expensive because of the number of
extension workers and technical assistance involved. In a national seed
program the thrust should be towards assistance to existing extension
networks, better information, and continuity of th, supply of quality
seed.
F. Sub-sector Issues and Policies
2.14      Major constraints in the develoM!nt of a seed production
stsucture.  Seed faris in Zaire are faced with a number of problems in
their operations, mainly the inadequacy of budgetary, technical and human
resources and the lack of a seed quality control system, seed legislation



-13-
and a descriptive catalogue of varieties. The seed farme also face an
uncertain supply of base seeds. Moreover, there are serious constraints on
agriculture in Zaire, which any seed production plan muet take into account
if it is to be realistic. They are:
a)  the weak traders network at the local level (para 1.17);
b)  serious problems of transportation and communication (para
1.17); and
c)  inexperience in the management of public institutions (para
1.12).
Faced with these problems Government initially looked for
short-term solutions, but gradually realized that the formulation of
long-term objectives should accompany yearly action programs to improve
seed production.
2.15      Governuent policies in the sub-sector.  Goverament adopted in its
original proposal for a national seed plan (at the 1982 CG meeting, para
1.19) the following principles in order to address constraints mentioned
above, with full knowledge that the strategy should be continuously
adjusted in accordance with progress made during implementation of its
policies:
a)  to locate seed farns in regions where rural development
agencies have achieved genuine progress, in viev of the need
for an organized effort to stimulate demand through
strengthened extension activities.
b)  the decentralization of seed multiplication centers, in order
to limit the cost and risk associated vith shipment of large
quantities of seeds over long distances;
c)  the need to lntegrate the private sector in the
seed production structure, with a view to ensure efficiency
and continuity of management, and to reduce dependence on
public funds; and
d)  the need to establish a central agency which would be
responsible for quality control and coordination of efforts
during the initial development phase.
These objectives cannot be realized quickly, given the lack of
trained personnel and infrastructure and the integrated character of such
an undertaking. Hovever, given the importance of the objective of food
self-sufficiency for the country, Governuent attaches very high priority to
the development of a seed program, even if resources are initially liuited.
2.16      IDA involvement in the sub-sector.  IDA supports seed
multiplication activities in four agricultural development projects:  Kasai
Oriental Snallholder Maize, (Cr.1040 Zr); North East Ituri Rural



-14-
Development (Cr. 1325 Zr); the Lulua in the Rasai Occidental, Cr.
1540-Zr.); and the Kwilu Ngongo Sugar Project, (Cr. 660 Zr) where the
Compagnie Sucrière (CS) develops part of the Luala valley ln order to
secure food supply for its labor force.  The seed farms produce mainly
maize sAeds for small farmers, and the activities are limited to
multiplication, vithout special quality control measures.  Implementation
experience is limited because seed production is hampered by the lrregular
supply of base seeds and the lack of funds and expertise. Also the scale
of operation has been too amall to allow setting up the necessary structure
for a quality seed production operation. Although all projects aim to
recover operating couts, the pricing policies adopted vary from partial to
gradual and to immediate full recovery. The proposed Project would support
activites to improve the supply of base seeds, seed farm operations and
seed quality control, as well as to promote a better marketing policy.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Rationale
3.01      The proposed Project is of vital Importance for Zaire.  It alis
to increase food production through increased supply of controlled seeds of
major fooderopa and it would benefit mostly small farmers. It is,
therefore, crucial to the implementation of Government'e agricultural
strategy which gives top priority to increased food production. Aloo, the
proposed project is an important consequence and complement of the
country'B recently completed Agricultural Recovery Plan (para 1.18).
Actions undertaken during the recovery plan, such as farmer training and
modernization of cultivation techniques, will be severely limited in their
impact if farmers cannot obtain sufficient seeds of acceptable quality.
Increased production resulting from the farmers acceptance of the use of
controlled seeds produced under the project vill gradually substitute for
importa which vould otherwise be necessary and vill move Zaire closer to
its goal of food self-sufficiency. The project aime to reach about 20 of
small faru holders in the areas of influence with a supply of controlled
seeds.
3.02      The Project vould be the initial time-slice of a long term effort
to assist Governoent in developing a self-sustaining and comercially viable
seed industry. The proposed Project responds to the Government' B request
in 1982 for assistance to increase improve seed production in Zaire (paras
2.01 to 2.15). The Project dealo with the production of seeds for the
major foodcrops (maize, rice, groundnuts and other edible legumes) and
cassava cuttings, in accordance with the Government's strategy to achieve
food self-sufficiency. It focuses on techaical, managerial and
institutional aspects of seed production and aims to maintain the necessary
flexibility to adjust its policies to experiences gained during
implementation and to adapt to local conditions. It is designed to deal
not only vith seed multiplication and quality control issues, but also to
address the upstream problems of the supply of base seeds (para 3.16 and
4.09), and the dovastream questions of seed promotion and distribution
(para 3.10 and 5.10). The Project vill be implemented by the recently
constituted National Seed Bureau (BUNASEM) whlch would play an active role



-15-
during this firat phase of the national seod progra. Hovever, the Project
vlll seek to further integrate tho privato *ector ln the *sed industry, und
BUNASEM vill thon gradually limit iteolf to a regulatory role, mostly of
quality control and technical assistance when noeded. This approach
requires that seed farm management develop itr own administrative and
marketing structure with the objective to facilitate participation,
including participation in ownership, by the private sector and to permit
BUNASEM to maintain the minimum administrative structure necessary to limit
Project'8 reliance on budgetary support.
B. General Description
3.03      The Project would be the firet phase of a long term effort.  It
vould be implemented over a five year period, covering the agricultural
seasons from mid-1985 to mid-1990.  It would include the folloving
components:
(i)  support for the operation of a National Seed Bureau;
(iI) development and operational support for five central seed
farms including development of seed marketing and support to
extension service in the area of influence of each seed
farm;
gIII) development of seed quality control capacity, including
establishment and operation of seed testing laboratories;
(iv) assietance to secondary seed faros;
(v)  improvement of the production capacity of base seeds at
major agricultural research stations;
(vi) a tralning program, both overseas and in Zaire;
(vil) special studies and pilot projects related to the
development of the seed industry; and
(viii) technical assistance to support the management of the
National Seed Bureau and of the seed farms, and to develop
the training program.
3.04      BUNASEM, responsible for project implementation, as part of the
DADR, vould have considerablc administrative and financial autonomy. The
Government lntends ultimately to establish BUNASEM as an lndependent seed
authority (paras 3.06 and 4.07). Other institutions would also participate
in the implementation of project activities. These additional particilpants
include the research institutes and the National Commodity Programs for the
production of base seeds (para 2.03 and 2.07), Rural Development Projects
and Private Enterprises for the provision of farm management services and
the strengthening of marketing structures. BUNASEM would coordinate these
project activities by entering into agreements vith the participating
institutions vith the objective to arrive at annually agreed upon vork



-16-
programe sad budgets (para, 4.09 to 4.12). BUNASEJ would also actively
promote further partictpation of the private *ector ln *ood production,
among others  by studylng in collaboration vith the private sector, the
Issues lnvolved In uuch a devolopomnt (para 3.21 and 4.20).
C. D.tailed Description
3.05      National Se-d Bureau.  The Project would support the
strengthening and oporation of WUNASEN. The absence of an entity
exclud vely responsible for the improvemont of soed production has been a
major constraint to the affective use of scarce resources avallable for
seed production and distribution activities. In May 1984 the Goverument
established BUNASEN to implient the National Soed Program and carry out
the proposed Project. The Project would provide BUNASEM vith the
techaical, humân, and financial means to organize its activities and
operations, set up its management uystems, deteraine its vole and relations
vis-à-vis the other institutions involved in seed production, such as the
research programe, the s*ed ferme, t'.e developoent projects snd the private
sector and develop its vork prograus and budget estimuates to implement the
project. WUNASEM would first start a three pronged action progras: on the
operational aide, the coordination and developuent of seed production; on
the administrative side, the organizteion of logistical services for seed
faras, snd the necessary lnternal coumualcation and monitoring system and
assistance to the Introduction of proper accounting and control systeme at
seed farme; and finally on the promotional side, the promotion of effective
marketing policies and training programe geared to the needs of seed
farme. BUNASEM would also have a monitoring and evaluation unit, and a
training unit, initially under direct control of the director (pars 4.19).
After production *tart up BUNASEM vould gradually organize a quality
contro syste. and initiate the drafting of seed legislation and the
preparation of a varlety catalogue (para 3.14).
3.06      BUNASEM forme a part of the DADR, albeit vith its ,wn annual work
program and a high degree of autonomy, particularly in the technical
field. It la expected that BUNASEM vill evolve into an independent
authority (office), vith lts own separate budget and personnel policy (para
4.07).  The organiztaion of BUNASEN vould be developed in stages, in
accordance vith the progres  made at the seed faru level.  The initial
staff would include one Director, three Service Chiefs and nine support
staff including chauffeurs. Chart 3 indicates the organization of BUNASEN
during project implementation. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the Governuent would employ a qualified professional as Director of
BUNASEM, in consultation vith the Association.
3.07      Major lnvestment items under the BUNASEM component vould include
the construction of offices in Kinshasa ln conjunction vith the central
seed laboratory, vehicles, office equipment and furniture, radio
conmunication systeas w.th seed farme, audio-visual training equipment and
incremental operating cosets (including salaries, bonuses, office material
and public utility services). Total component coste, including price and
physical contingencles, are estiaated at US$1.9 million.



-17-
3.08      Improved seed production.  This component aims at expanding the
seed production capacity by supporting existing seed production centers or
seed farms in Bas-Zaire and Kasai Oriental, and by establishing new ones in
Bandundu, Shaba and Haut-Zaire. All farms are located in the major
foodcrop production areas. The major seed varieties to be produced vill be
for maize, Kasai I, Salongo, Shaba and GPS5; for rice, R66 and R46; for
groundnuts G17; and for cassava PRONAM released cultivars (para 2.05 and
annex II). The seed farms would obtain their base seeds from the research
centers or the National Commodity Programs (paras 3.16 and 4.09) and
produce controlled seeds on their own farms and on the farus of
out-growers. Due to the presently limited expertise in seed production
technology, the outgrovers program would be expanded gradually after each
seed farm has established satisfactorily its own organization (para 5.08).
The distribution of cassava cuttings of new, improved cultivars poses a
unique problem: the prohibitively high cost of transporting thousands of
tons of cuttings over long distances excludes the option to produce
improved cuttings at central production centers. The Project vould
therefore provide funds to produce at seed farms base-cuttings for
distribution to progressive farmers selected in consultation with extension
agents. They vould produce controlled cuttings under supervision by
qualified staff of PRONAM and the seed farms. The satellite farmers vould
distribute controlled cuttings to the farmers. Since income from sales of
tubers and leaves would substantially cover production costs of
cassava-cuttings the farmers would only have to pay a low price for
improved planting material. Newly released cultivars could be distributed
rapidly with this type of decentralized system of production.
3.09      In view of the Project's goal to assist the Government to develop
a self-sustaining and commercially viable seed industry with an increasing
participation of the private sector (para 3.02), organization and
management of the seed farms would be contracted, wherever possible, to
private enterprises, or, in their absence to regional development
organizations (para 4.11). The private sector is still reluctant to invest
in seed producing enterprises until the market and profit potential of such
ventures are sufficiently certain. Thus the nature of the contracts would
vary depending on the interest and structure of the participating agencies
(para 4.02). It could range from the administration of seed farm
operations, to a concession to produce and market seeds or to a full
management contract for the exploitation of a state owned seedfarm. While
assets remain in the public sector until transfer to the private sector,
seed production operations would, however, in all cases, be organized along
commercial lines and the seed farms would be comparable to wholly owned
subsidiaries of commercial enterprises (private, public or mixed) with
respect to organizational structure (para 4.11), cost-accounting (para
4.11) and marketing (para 3.10). Marketing decisions would be made at the
seed farm level (paras 6.04 and 6.09) and profits, when obtained, vould
normally be retained by the seed-farams (paras 3.11 and 6.09), vith a view
to enhance prospects of transfer of the seedfarms to the private sector.
BUNASEM would supervise the execution of such management agreements to
assure continuous production and distribution of quality seed to the
farming population. The Project would provide the necessary management and
technical assistance (para 3.23) to facilitate the transfer of operations



-18-
to the private sector (para 3.21 and 4.20). An important constraint to
this transfer would be the shortage of marketing channels and the weak
extension services. Development of market potential would be undertaken by
BUNASEM at the central and by the seed farms at the regional level. Costs
of the latter would be recovered through seed sales. Chart 5 shows the
organization of a seed farm at full development.
3.10      At present farmers in various areas are insufficiently aware of
the value and importance of improved seeds, or are reluctant to use seeds
due to uncertain quality and availability. The Project would need not only
to produce quality seeds on a sustained basis, but should also ensure their
availability when needed. Finally, it would provide assistance in starting
up extension in the use of improved seeds and marketing programs whcre
these do not exist (e.g. Bas-Zaire with the Compagnie Sucrière) or in
strengthening those which are on-going (e.g. Kasai-Oriental with PMKO).
The project would provide funds for necessary services and studies (para
6.02). With respect to extension the project would make provisions for the
establishmaent and operation of demonstration plots and on-farm test plots,
as vell as for the training of staff and selected farmers.  The long-term
objective is to expand the market for improved seeds through a price
structure based on seed farm costs and local market focus rather than on
central government regulations.
3.11      Investment costs would include the initial costs of establishment
Of the organization and infrastructure, construction of houses, industrial
buildings, offices, laboratories and storage facilities; farm and seed
processing equipment; vehicles and radio commmication, and on-farm and
access roads. Operating costs would include incremental salaries,
administration production costa, maintenance sad other recurrent expenses
including working capital (para 3.30). The IDA credit would finance part
of the investment and operating costs for the five seed farms. In addition
to the IDA credit, seed farm operations would be financed through seed
sales and, if necessary, short-term borrowing from other sources (i.e.,
commercial banks or Governnment parastatal credit institutions). It is
expected that the seed farms will become self-financing during the period
of implementation, and profitable operations in the medium or long run.
Assurances vere obtained at negotiations from Goverament that full
operating cobts would be recovered within the project implementation period
and that adequate accounting procedures permitting the accurate calculation
of cost prices would be installed at the seed farms no later than December
31, 1986 (para 6.04). The total costs of this component, including
extension and marketing services, would be US$9.3 million including
contingencies.
3.12      Assistance to other seed farms.  This component would provide
financial and techical assistance for the development of seed farns not
directly financed and supervised by the project. These facilities -
private enterprises, rural development projects and religious centers with
agricultural development programs - have already initiated or are planning
to start seed production activities. These farns would be gradually
covered by the seed quality control system and the project could thereby
help them identify and eliminate production constraints, such as inadequacy



-19-
of expertise and defieiencies in seed processing and storage. Assistance
to these farms would further decentralise the system of seed production.
The cost of seed transport would be reduced, thus making seeds more
affordable to a greater number of farmers.
3.13      Support would be in the areas of training, improvement of on-fara
seed quality control and financial assistance for the procurement of seed
processing and storage equipment, in cases where major improvements are
expected from such financing.  The component would also finance staff
travel for visits to these farms. The support would be provided only upon
request by the interested farm or project and possible financing would be
contingent upon the conclusion of an agreement, satisfactory to IDA,
between BUNASEM and the farm, specifying conditions of financing,
improvements to be achieved and the type of equipment or services to be
provided under the project (para 4.14). The total cost of this component
would amount to US$0.3 million, including contingencies.
3.14      Seed quality control.  The Project would support BUNASEN and the
seed farms to fully develop a capacity for seed quality control. Existing
control activities are mostly limited to controlling the germination
capacity of seeds, and in a few cases to field control on genetic purity.
For the certification of seeds by an independent agency (para 2.07), it is
essential that crop varieties be registered and described in an officially
approved catalogue and that the certifying agency be empovered to conduct
varietal tests during subsequent years under various ecological conditions,
and to carry out field and factory inspections at seed production centers.
Such a system does not exist in Zaire at present, and it would take several
years for it to become operational. However, the project would provide
funds for the preparation of such a system, since unbiased quality control
is essential for raising and maintaining quality of seeds and in gaining
farmers confidence. But, before the system is in place, the quality level
could be improved by elementary laboratory control tests and the
standardization of field controls.  The Project would provide funds for the
establishment of a quality control unit of BUNASEM, which would ultimately
develop into a seed certification unit.
3.15      The component would finance: the construction and outfitting of a
seed testing laboratory for the BUNASEM, and five small laboratories at the
five seed production centers; salaries, transportation and equipment/
material and technical assistance required for laboratory operation and
shipping and handling of samples. It would also finance the preparation of
a preliminary inventory of food crop varieties widely used in Zaire and the
drafting of seed legislation. Assurances were obtained sought at
negotiations to complete these documents no later than December 3-1, 1988.
Total estimated cost for this component is US$1.6 million, including
contingencies.
3.16      Assistance to research stations would focus on ilaproving the
production capacity for base seeds, as their assured supply is the Most
vital issue for the seed production centers. The Government is currently
improving the agricultural research structure and strengthening the
National Commodity Programs. However, these programs make provisions



-20-
mainly for the personnel to produce breeder seeds and some base seeds, but
do not provide sufficiently for the necessary infrastructure to produce and
store base seeds in the quantities and of a quality needed by the proposed
project. BUNASEM would enter into agreements with the research institutes
and these programs to provide the necessary supply. The agreements would
define the obligations of each party to ensure the production of the
required base seeds (para 4.09). The National Rice Program would, under
the proposed project, receive assistance to strengthen the activities for
rice seed multiplication at the Mavunzi station. This assistance would be
coordinated vith the efforts now being undertaken by the Italian Covernuent
to support rice research. Similar research programs for cassava, maize and
grain legumes are currently assisted by a USAID funded project (para 2.03).
In addition, assurances were obtained at negotiations from Government, that
it would prepare and present to the Association, no later than June 30,
1986, an action plan to implement the recommendations contained in the
report of the research study group, prepared with assistance from ISNAR
(para 1.14).
3.17      Investment items for this component would be made at the research
stations of Gandajika (maize, grain legumes), Kaniama, M'vuazi (cassava,
maize) and Mavunzi (rice). They would include the construction of houses,
and storage buildings; seed drying facilities and equipment; rehabilitation
cf energy and vater supply facilties (Kaniama and Mavunzi), laboratory
facilities (Mavunzi), vehicles and radio communication equipment.  For the
assistance proposed for Mavunzi, the component vould also provide for
salaries and operating costs during the run in period of about two years,
after which these costs vould be expected to be covered by seed sales.
Total component costs including contingencies are estimated at US$2.6
million.
3.18      Professional training.  The limited number of individuals
experienced in the management of seed farms, seed production, and seed
technology, constltutes a major constraint to the development of an
adequate seed production structure. In the past training programs have
only been undertaken by PNM, but these were more oriented to research work
or general agronomy, and less to seed technology or seed farn management.
Also, there has been a great turnover in personnel and most of the trainees
have found careers in other government functions or the private sector.
Training programs for other crops vere not Pystematically undertaken.
3.19      The provision of training opportunities would be a major feature
of the project, as the ultimate objective is to develop an indigenous
capacity to manage the seed industry in Zaire. Apart from on-the-job
learning which would occur during activities jointly carried out with
consultants, opportunities for in-couatry and overseas training would also
be made available for all major project activities. A total of 44 man
lonths consultancy is provided for training.  About 620 persons would be
trained over a five-year period in farm management, financial management,
farm administration, tecbnology of seed production and processing, use and
mintenance of equipment, laboratory operation, and seed marketing.  This
component would include the training of 25 individuals overseas, 23 courses



-21-
in Kinshasa or at local training centers; and 32 mobile training courses.
Refresher courses would also be organized in order to establish a
continuous training system and to update the knowledge of the specialists
involved in the seed industry. Further details are given in Table 8.
3.20      The component would finance the cost of overseas training, and
for local training the cost of instruction, equipment, salaries, travel and
housing of faculty and participants. It 'iould also provide six manmonths
of consultants to prepare the format and curricula of local courses as vell
as the instruction material. An evaluation and updating of courses every
two years would also be financed. A total cost of US$1.7 million is
estimated for this component, including contingencies.
3.21      Studies and pilot projects.  This component would finance short-
term studies to define marketing strategies, determine the potential for
producing maize hybrid seeds and its possible impact for the seed industry
in Zaire (para 2.05), and analyze the conditions and make recommendations
for incorporating more rapidly the private sector into the production and
marketing of seeds. It would also carry out (under supervision of the
staff of the Kaniama research station) a pilot test on plot A of the Kasese
farm to establish the appropriate techniques to continue seed production at
this farm (para 2.01 and 2.09); and a test of production and sale of
farmers packages (minikits) consisting of fertilizer, controlled seeds,
herbicides and pesticides, in order to promote the regular purchase snd use
of improved seeds by small farmers.
3.22      This component would provide funds for short-term assistance by
outside consultants to put in place a cost accounting system for BUNASEN
and the seed farms, to establish a monitoring system, and to carry out
evaluation studies of the project impact. This component would also
finance all preparatory work for a second phase of the program as vell as
for a possible change of BUNASEM's status into an independent regulatory
body (para 4.07 and 4.20). Finally, funds would be provided for auditing
the accounts of BUNASEN and the project related accounts of the
participating agencies (para 3.33). The total cost of consultants,
agricultural inputs, operating costs and study materials for the various
tests and pilot projects is estimated at US$0.7 million, including
contingencies.
3.23      Technical assistance.  The provision of technical assistance
under the project would aim at alleviating some of the constraints
described in previous paragraphs (2.07 and 2.15; 3.05 to 3.21). The
project would finance international specialists to assist BUNASEM and the
seed production centers in seed production technology, lnstitutional and
farm management, seed quality control and seed market development. At
BUNASEM headquarters, three specialists would be employed: a seed
production technologist, a management/financial specialist and a seed
marketing specialist. Together and separately these specialists would work
with BUNASEM's Director and his senior staff to: (i) develop a central
structure capable of coordinating and supporting seed production activities
undertaken by research stations and seed farms; (ii) establish management



-22-
and accouating systems that would facilitate the transfer of the full seed
production responsibility to the private sector; and (iii) develop a seed
quality control system and legal framework conducive to the development of
an independent seed industry ln the long run. At the level of the seed
production centers, the assistance of a seed production specialist is
envisaged until the key staff of each center is sufficiently experienced to
carry out its management task. A total of 214 man months la provided for
such assistance.  In addition 13 man months, to be financed by UNDP, vould
be provided for ad hoc assignments to be decided by the director of BUNASEM
in consultation with FAO. The component would finance salaries, travel and
lodging costs for the consultants employed while on mission in Zaire.   The
total cost is estimated at about US$3.1 million, including contingencies.
D. Project Costa
3.24      Total costs are estimated at about US$21 million (Z 770 million),
including US$0.9 million (Z 31.5 million) of physical contingencies and
US$4.0 million (Z 140 million) of price contingencies. 0f the total costa
about US$12.5 million, or 59%, would be in foreign exchange. Project costs
by component are snmmarized in the table below:
Project CoBt &moarY
(per cmnet
Percent
of Total Percent
ZaIres (mW±1nm)     US$ (illion)    Base   of Foreig
Local  F.E.  Total loca  F.E.  Total  Coats e
A. Natioel Seed Burea   27.6  23.1  50.7  0.79  0.66  1.45   9       46
L Central seed farioe:
1.  idlu-tNego      10.9  17.1  28.0  0.31  0.49  0.80   5       61
2. PirKI            22.8  28.3  51.1  0.65  0.81  1.46   9       55
3. Mapoy            45.8  36.8  82.6  1.31  1.05  2.36  14       44
4. Shaba            23.1  23.8  46.9  0.66  0.68  1.34   8       51
5. Bout Zaire       22.1  18.5  40.6  0.63  0.53  1.16   7       46
C. Assistaoe ta other
seed f£arn           L8   6.3   8.1  0.05  0.18  0.23   1        78
D. Seed quality axctrol   2.0  17.1  37.1  0.57  0.49  1.06   7      46
E. Assstanoe to research
centers             26.9  46.2  73.1  0.77  1.32  2.09  13       63
F. PorOeuami trairdng  13.0  34.0  47.0  0.37  0.97  1.34   8        72
G. Studies/pilot projects  3.9  13.6  17.5  0.11  0.39  0.50   3     78
HL Tecinical assistanc    14.0  75.2  89.2  0.40  2.15  2.55  16     84
Toal Project Roe C0sts  231.9 340.0  571.9  6.62  9.72 16.34 100     59
Physceal c  8x:1i cles    14.0  18.2  32.2  0.40  0.52  0.92   6    56
Price ontixgencies    62.3  77.3  139.6  1.78  2.21  3.99  24       56
T.D Project Cbts   3 0 8.2 435.5  743.7 8.8) 12.45 21.25 130 T
tis pbaBixg and a brealdcu of Project Costs by emxent and by categay ame sm in
tIe 3.



-23-
3.25      Project costs have been estimated on the basis of 1985 prices3/
and include estimated taxes and duties of U.S.$62 thousand (Z 2,170
thousand). Physical contingencies of varying percentages (from 0 to 11Z)
vere applied to each cost category to reflect uncertainties regarding
detailed quantities and the possibility of design changes. All
calculations vere carried out ln foreign currency (US$) on the assumption
that the Goverament's floating exchange rate regime would maintain the
local currency's purchasing power parity over the Project implementation
period, annual inflation rates for foreign currency vere used, as shown
below:
1986     1987     1988     1989      1990
Foreign       7.5      8.0      8.0       8.0      8.0
E. Financing
3.26      The financing of project costs vould be as follows:
Z millions    US$ millions     Z
Government of Zaire                      68.25         1.95           9.2
Controlled seed sales                    86.45         2.47          11.6
IDA                                     520.80        14.88         70.0
Co-financier (UNDP)                      66.15         1.89           8.9
Total (vithout taxes)                   741.65        21.19          99.7
Taxes and duties                          2.10         0.06           0.3
Total (with taxes)                      743.75        21.25         100.0
uNDP has already agreed to provide financing on a parallel basis,
and FAO vould be its executing agency. The Italian Government bas
expressed interest to finance rice research activities, also on a parallel
basis. Arrangements are currently being worked out by the two
Governments. Upon conclusion of an agreement cofinancing vould be
coordinated with the proposed project.
3.27      The contribution of Government (including taxes) would consist of
budgetary allocations for the operation of BUNASEM and part of the
investments required to develop seed production (para 6.16). In addition,
assurances vere obtained at negotiations that, in the event that seed farms
experience cash shortages during the early years of developuent, the
Goverament would take the necessary steps for the seedfarms to have access
to credit extended by parastatal credit institutions such as the Fonds de
Convention de Development and BCA. The contribution of farmers would
consist of payments for seed purchases from the project's seed faras.
Although the Project financial plan calls for farmers' contribution to
represent 11.6Z of total project costs, this is a conservative estimate and
actual seed farm revenues could be higher. If so, the Governuent
contribution in later years could be reduced correspondingly. However, ln
3/ Data vas collected between March and July 1984 and increased uniformly
by 9.1% except for salaries which were adjusted at the end of 1984.



-24-
view of the high degree of uncertainty concerning seed farm revenues in the
early developmental years it is best to adopt a conservative approach and
limit estimated contribution from seed farm revenues to about 11% of total
project costs.
3.28      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 15.10 million (US$14.88 million)
vould be granted to the Government under standard IDA terus and
conditions. A UNDP grant of US$1.89 million to be administered by FAO,
would be made to the Government on terma and conditions described in the
project agreement signed February 13, 1985. The IDA credit and the UNDP
grant together would cover about 79% of project costs, including 100Z of
foreign exchange caste and 48% of local costc. The Government of Zaire
would cover about 10Z of project costa. The Project costs that vould be
co-financed by IDA and UNDP are expenses for the National Seed Bureau (para
3.05), seed quality control (para 3.14), training (para 3.18) and technical
assistance (para 3.23). Government would transfer the proceeds of the
credit and grant, as well as its own contribution, to the Department of
Agriculture, which would transmit these funds via BUNASEM to the
Participating agencies on the basis of agreements and yearly work programs
which would be reviewed and approved by IDA in advance, (para 4.11 and
4.12).
F. Diebursement
3.29      Disbursements from the credit account and the co-financier grant
accouat would be disbursed as presented in Table 4. BUNASEM's annual work
Drogram would contain the annual work programe of each participating seed
farm and research station.  These work programs, which vould in fact be
signed contracts or agreements between BUNASEM and the respective parties,
would specify, among other items, the amounts to be financed during the
year by the IDA credit. IDA would disburse against these annual work
programs after they have been approved by IDA (paras 4.09-4.12 and
4.22-4.23). Disbursement for assistance to other seedfarms would also be
made against signed agreements (paras 3.12 and 3.13).  The UNDP
co-financier vould finance on a parallel basis with IDA and C,overnment the
components of establishment and development of the BUNASEM wvth substantial
involvement in the financing of technical assistance and the operation of
regional bureaus. The Government vould finance primarily construction of
buildings and office equipment. Seed farms would finance part of the
recurrent costs through sales of controlled seeds to farmers. Further
details are given in Table 5. Disbursements under category H of Table 4
would be against statements of expenditures (SOE) certified by the
financial counselor of the Department of Agriculture. Disbursements
against all categories would be fully documented. However, documentation
pertaining to SOE would be retained at the offices of BUNASEM for
inspection in the course of normal supervision by IDA and by independent
auditors. BUNASEM would be responsible for the preparation and
presentation to IDA of withdrawal applications on behalf of BUNASEM and the
participating agencies, and it vould present vithdraval applications only
for the expenses contained in the annual workprograms as approved by IDA.



-25-
3.30      Working capital and IDA special account.  It is estimated that
working capital requirements correspond to three monthe of all recurrent
cost categories, except fot the seed production category where advance
purchase of farm inputs, not always readily avallable, requires an average
of a six-month inventory. Sources of working capital consist of: (i)
sales of improved seeds for each of the seed farma; (il) IDA and UNDP
financing; and (iii) Government contributions. However, sales of improved
seeds would not be effected until late in the firet year and cash shortages
may occur at other times due to the cyclical nature of sales and to
possible delays in Government disbursements. Thus, it would be necessary
to establish a revolving fund (special accouRt) in order to pre-finance at
least part of the project'e working capital requirements. A revolving fund
of US$0.4 million, financed under the project, would be established in an
accourt to be opened in the Central Bank for this purpose and would be
operated under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.  The revolving fund
would cover all eligible expenditures. The revolving fund would be
replenished monthly upon receipt of documentary evidence to be provided by
Project Management. Should any dilbursements be made from the revolving
fund which would vot be acceptable to IDA, the Goverament would deposit the
corresponding amount into the special accouat. Terme and conditions for
using the special account would be agreed upon during negotiations.
3.31      Disbursement schedule.  The estlmated schedule of dlsbursements
le presented Sn Table 6.  It is estimated that the IDA credit will be fully
disbursed within a period of seven years. This is somewhat shorter than
the 10-year period indicated by the Diebursement Profile for agricultural
projecta in Zaire, covering the 1973-1983 perlod. The shorter diabursement
period ls justifïed and realistic for the following reasons: (i)
disbursements for agricultural projects ln Zaire over the last five years
have been occurring at a faster rate than indicated by the profile, due to
a more stable agricultural policy, increased project experience and
Government's awareness of the need of quick disbursements; (il) the seed
farm components of this project wlll be managed by ongoing projects or
private sector firms on contract and are expected to be more efficient than
the Government; (iii) the PPF has enabled Project staff to become famillar
with IDA disbursement procedures; and (lv) the establishment of a revolving
fund is expected to alleviate soae of the constraints hampering
disbursements in the past.
G. Procurement
3.32      Buildings, including civil works for sitp preparation, amount to
an estimated cost of US$4.6 million, and vould be procured through local
competitive bidding. Although the total amouat involved is substantial, it
consists of many individual components dispersed over various times
at eleven sites, (all but one of which are in the interior of Zaire).
Thus, the amount for each component would be small and, therefore, umlikely
to interest foreign firms, which would nevertheless be allowed to bid. For
the same reasons farm infrastructure works and equipment (US$0.9 million)
vould also be executed following local competitive bidding. Equipment and



-26-
material financed under the IDA credit would be procured observing the
following: (i) office equipment and materials (US$O.30 million) through
local or international shopping procedures; (iI) heavy equipment and
vehicles (US$2.1 million) through international competitive bidding
following IDA guidelines; and (iii) farm and laboratory equipment (US$1.4
million) through international shopping procedures. Ail consultants would
be selected following IDA guidelines except for those funded directly by
UNDP/FAO who would be selected under UNDP/FAO guidelines. Materials under
the Marketing, Training and Technical Assistance components would be
purchased following local or international shopping procedures for a total
cost estimated at US$5.0 million under IDA and US$1.3 under UNIP
guidelines. The existing guidelines for local procurement vary for each
region or province.   Following the economic measures and devaluation of
the Zairian currency of September 1983, these guidelines are being
reviewed.  In addition, the annual work plans to be prepared by BUNASEM and
the seed farms would detail an annual procurement plan (including
procedures) which would be reviewed and approved by IDA. Under this plan
procurement of less than US$50,000 may be carried out through local or
international shopping procedures. Procurement methods by cost category
are summarized in Table 7. BUNASEM would be responsible for procurement of
goods under International competitive bidding and would provide the
management agencies of the seed farms support in procurement matters (such
as preparation of bidding documents and evaluation) and logistical
assistance. IDA would review and approve bid documents and bid evaluation
for items procured under local or international competitive bidding, terms
of reference and evaluations of consultant selection and bid evaluations
for items procured under shopping procedures.
H. Accounts and Audits
3.33      A consultant acceptable to IDA would be recruited as Advisor for
the Chief of Administration and Finance of BUNASEM for the duration of the
project.  Among other duties he or she would be responsible for setting up
BUNASEM's accounting and internal control systems, provide follow-up
support and assist BUNASEM in consolidating the annual budgets of the seed
farms and prepare annual financing plans.  Manuals would be prepared to
help accounting staff of BUNASEM and of the seed farms In applying the
systems. Accounting and Finance Service personnel would participate in
training courses. Short term consultants might also be hired to assist him
or her in this task and in setting up similar systems in each of the seed
farms.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that BUNASEM and the seed
faras would (a) maintain records and accounts (commercial accounts would be
required for each seedfarm) to explain all project activities; (b) have
these accounts and statements of expenditures, if any, audited each year by
external independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (c) submit the audit
reports to IDA no later than six months after the close of the financial
year; and (d) allow IDA to review the accounts and records.
I.   Environuental Impact
3.34      Project investments would not have an adverse environmental
impact. In the medium and long-run, they are expected to have a beneficial
effect, particularly in areas where agriculture with reduced fallow periods



-27-
degrade the soils. In those areas farming system6 vill have to evolve
using adequate crop rotations and production systems, and the availability
of good and appropriate seeds could help introduce effective systens. The
promotion of the use of better seeds would also be an lncentive to upgrade
cultivation techniques such as the observance of the correct planting time
and plant populations. This would lead to more vigorous crops, covering
soils early on in the growing period, and thus reduce soil degradation.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. General
4.01      The Department of Agriculture and Rural Development would have
overall responsibility for the prolect. (The Organization of the Ministry
of Agriculture is shown in chart 1). A National Seed Board would be the
key consultative body, providing advice to the State Commissioner on all
aspects related to the seed sub-sector. The National Seed Bureau (BUNASEM)
would be the executing agency of the project. BUNASEM would contract the
production, processing and distribution of controlled seeds with qualified
enterprises of the private sector or capable management units of regional
development projects (para 4.11). It would alseo enter into agreements with
the relevant research stations or national commodity programs to produce
the base seeds required by seed farma (para 4.09). BUNASEM vould supervise
the implementation of the contracts made vith the various participating
agencîes, take necessary steps to adjust the contracta to new developments,
coordinate all seed producing activities in Zaire and develop gradually a
seed quality control system.
4.02      The Project would be implemented over a five year period, which
would allow building nationwide a better insight into the operational
concept of a seed industry, identifying institutional constraints and
developing more effective marketing practices with a view to further
lntegrate the private sector in seed production. In addition it would
create a local capability for planning and Implementing further
developments. The major agencles participating in the implementatlon of
the project would be BUNASEM, the Commodity Crop Programs (para 2.03), some
research stations (para 5.06), and the prospective management agencies for
seedfarms. These agencies are private or mixed enterprises: Compagnie
Sucrière (Bas-Zaire); CODAIK (Bandundu); an affiliate of CECAMINES or a
private agricultural enterprise (South Shaba); SOTEXCO (Haut Zaire) and a
management unit of a successful rural development project PMKO
(Kasai-Oriental).  An overview of the project's structure is given in
chart 4.
B. Organization
The National Seed Board (NSB)
4.03      This Board of about 10-15 members, to be established in the
Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, would have advisory
functions initially (para 4.01), but could become a statutory board when
seed legislation is enacted. The chairman and members of the Board would
be chosen and appointed by the State Commissioner for Agriculture among
those nominated by the agencies and segments of the population interested



-28-
in the supply of controlled seeds. The Director of BUNASEM, a member of
the Board ex-officio, would serve as the Secretary of the Board.  Since the
success of a seed program depends both on those taklng part in its
implementation and on the beneficiaries at various levels the following
sectors and organizations would also be represented on the Board: Planning
Department; research institutions; private seed producers; cooperatives or
farmer organizations; private traders; agricultural credit institutions;
agricultural development organizations and agricultural inputs supply
organizations.
4.04      The Board would advise Government with respect to release of new
varieties, seed importation and multiplication targets, quality standards,
lmprovement of marketing 'ocedures and vould advise the Governuent on
financial support requlreu by the seeds industry.  It would establish ad
hoc working committees which would prepare iechnical matters for
consideration by the Board. The technical committees would be organized
and guided by the Director of BUNASEM, as appropriate. The Board should
preferably meet before every production season and at least twice a year,
including the time when the Board would meet to comment on the annual
report of BUNASEM. Assurances vere obtained at negotiations that
Government establish no later than December 31, 1986 a Board along the
lunes described in this and the preceding paragraph.
National Seed Bureau (BUNASEM)
4.05      BUNASEN vas established recently as a seui-autonomous unit within
the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (DADR), primarily to
carry out the proposed project, and la still at the organizing stage. Its
mandate includes (a) overall responsibtlity for the implenentation of a
seed production and distribution program through contracts with other
agencies, and (b) quality control. The structure of the Bureau is to
evolve gradually to reflect the progressive switch from the present
situation to the time when an effective seed industry îs operated by the
private sector, at which time BUNASEN would becowe primarily a regulatory
agency. A Director was appointed in May 1984 and staffing is underway
(Chart 3 gives the organizational chart of BUNASEM). Its structure
consists of three major units: (a) the technical operational unit, (b) the
administrative and financial unit, and (c) the promotion and marketing unit
during the first phase of implementation of a National Seed Program. It
vould be a condition of effectiveness that the director, three section
chiefs and the procurement officer be in place. BUNASEM's vorkplan would
be available by October for approval by IDA.
4.06      During the implementation period, BUNASEM would be ultimately
responsible, but not directly involved in, the production, processing and
storage of controlled seed. Actual field operations, also including
distribution and marketing of seeds, vould be carried out by private
enterprises or project management units under contract (paras 3.09 and
4.11). Technical Assistance to prepare and update such contracts vill be
provided, as appropriate, by ad-hoc assistance contracts. Such agencies
would receive support from specialised staff or consultants in the three
units of BUNASEM. Production of base seeds vould be carried out by
research centers or National Comuodity Progra s under contract (paras 3.16



-29-
and 4.09). In view of the vital importance of training during the firat
phase of the National Seed Program (para 3.19), a training unit (eventually
to become part of the administrative department) would be placed directly
under control of the Director of BUNASEM. The quality control of seeds
vill ultimately develop ln an independent unit. However, during the
initial phase it will remain part of the operational unit because lt has to
be developed in close cooperation with seed production activities. in view
of the difficult and expensive travel conditions in the country BUNASEM
would, as appropriate, appoint regional supervisors to represent it
locally. The supervisors would initially work closely vith the
participating agencies (e.g. using their existing laboratory facilities).
It is expected that in a follow-up phase, the supervisors would develop
regional bureaus of the quality control system.
4.07      BUNASEM was established as a unit of the DADR.  It ls DADR's
intent ta give BUNASEM an independent legal status vith financial and
administrative autonomy (para 3.06). Due to lengthy procedures involved In
the creation of a public enterprise and the uncertainty regarding BUNASEM's
initial development and performance, DADR has glven BUNASEH the statue of a
departmental unit, to be funded as a project, with an adequate measure of
autonomy with respect to budget execution and accounting procedures, and
flexibility in personnel management. BUNASEM's legal statue would,
however, be closely reviewed during the firet two years of project
implementation, and assurances were obtained at negotiations that
Government would take all reasonable steps to enhance BUNASEM's independent
statue.
4.08      In order to assist BUNASEM in building an effective organization
capable of properly spearheading the creation of a private seed industry,
the project would finance internationally recruited consultants and special
atudies <paras 3.21 and 4.20) on terme of reference acceptable to the
Association (para 3.23) and a comprehensive training program which would
include in-country as vell as overseas training of BUNASEM'B staff (paras
3.18 and 4.19).
C. Management of Project Components
Production of Base Seed
4.09      Base seed production would be carried out by the relevant
research stations or co.modity program under contract with BUNASEM. A
master contract or agreement would be signed by BUNASEM with each
prograu/station specifying the broad obligations of each party. These
would include (i) a commitment on the part of the research institutions to
make sure that the related regional research stations would provide base
seeds to central seed farms in the amount, types, and quality to be agreed
annually; (h1) the types of supports needed by the related research
program/station that BUNASEM would agree to provide together with an
estimatlon of thelr costs; (1ii) an agreement by the research
programustations to maintain separate accouats for the utilization of
staff, equipment, and funds provided by BUNASEN and to accept that these
accounts uould be subjected to BUNASEN's audit; and (iv) the type and
frequency of control to be carried out by BUNASEN. A model master contract



-30-
vould be revieved at negotiations and signature of *uch agreements with the
participating research institutes would be a condition of effectiveness.
4.10      Execution of each master contract would be by annual addendum to
the contract, which would describe in detail the annual work program, the
type and amount of base seeds to be provided by research stations, the
categories and levels of support to be given by BUNASEM, as well as a
detailed time schodule for these mutual obligations. It would also
describe services to be given by the research stations to the seed farms
for control of production quality. Due to funding uncertainties which tend
to affect all projects in Zaire, the two partie. vould also work out
alternative options regarding their levels of performance and support.
Draft annual work programs vould be available by October each year for
approval by IDA. Disbursements for each separate research agency would be
made against these yearly approved work programs (paras 3.29 and 4.22).
Production of Controlled Seeds.
4.1 1     Implementation of this component would be carried out in the
field by the enterprises and project management units under contracte or
agreements (paras 3.09 and 4.02). The interest of the identified
management agencles varies, depending on their special objectives:
regional rural development structures recognize the need of regional seed
production as a prerequisite for attaining their developuent objectives;
and private enterprises understand the value of the use of controlled seeds
at their agricultural projects for assuring the foodsupply for theitr
laborforce, or the supply of raw-materials for agro-industrial industries,
or the incentive is to obtain experlence in a potenrial]- profitable
enterprise. The services to be rendered by the agencies yill be In
principle at cost or, in case of difficulties in proper recording, on the
basis of a predetermined fee. A master contract would be signed by BUNASEN
with each managing agency specifying the broad obligations of each party.
These would ineclude (b) the general and administrative o lanizational
structure of the seed farm (il) the comuituent on the pait of the agency to
produce, process, store and distribute controlled seeds; 'iii) the types of
support and finances to be recelved fro. BUNASEM together wSth an
estimation of costs; (iv) planning of financing; (v) an agreement by the
agency to maintain separate accountu for the utilization of staff,
equipoent, materials and services used for seed production and ts apply a
cost accounting system; (vi) the format of presentation of annual vork
programa and budgets; (vii) the procurement procedures and planning ?o be
observed; and (viii) the type and frequency of reporting and controls,
including seed quality control and auditing. A model master contract would
be reviewed at negotiations and signature of such contracts with at least
three agencles acceptable to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness.
4.12      Execution of the master contract would be by annual addendum to
the contract, which would describe in detail the type and amount of seeds
to be provided by the regional farm, the category and levels of support to
be given by BUNASEN, as well as the time these obligations would be due,
and a specification of BUNASEN's field Inspection planning. Seed farms
vould also prepare three-year forward production plans to secure proper
operations; prepare realistic annuai vork prograom and budgets; provide the
required information for base seed production; and enable the seedfarms to



-31-
divulge seed availabilities and prices before the start of the season.
Draft annual work programs would be available by October for approval by
IDA. Disbursements for each separate seedfarm would be made against these
yearly approved work programs (paras 3.29 and 4.22).
4.13      Extension and marketing would receive detailed attention in the
above mentioned agreements. Support for extension of the use of improved
seeds already undertaken by the agencies would be intensified, initially
through local marketing studies, and later on by financing training
courses, demonstration plots and farmer field days.  The routine marketing
costs (e.g. storage, transport, promotion), to be based on the
recommendations of the initial studies would be part of the annual budget
of the seed farms. BUNASEM would provide advice and technical assistance
in the field of marketing in order to achieve a harmonious development of
seed distribution by project and non-project farms. However, BUNASEN's
role would be phased out as soon as warranted and transferred fully to the
seed production centers (paras 3.02, 4.06 and 6.05).
Assistance to other seed farms
4.14      BUNASEM would be responsible for the iiplementation of this
component. It would function as the main liaison between project and
non-project farms and it would try to coordinate overall production
planning. Measures to achieve this goal are described in paras 3.12 and
3.13. Agreements regulating financial assistance would be reviewed during
supervision and investments above US$10,000 would require previous IDA
approval (para 3.30).
Seed Quality Control
4.15      Responsibility for implementing this component would rest with
BUNASEM in collaboration with the National Commodity Programs, INERA and
the seed farms. BUNASEM would in the first year focus on establishment of
facilities and training of personnel. Procurement of laboratory equipment
would be coordinated vith progress made in the construction of
laboratories, while training of personnel and simple field control could
start in the first planting season. Initially the central laboratory of
BUNASEM would function as the main control center. It would, however,
decentralize this function to the regions and the seed farms as soon as
laboratories at the faru and research stations became operative and trained
personnel were available (expected by year three).
4.16      Quality control of seeds would ultimately be provided at three
different levels. At the farm level, quality control would consist of
field control and simple laboratory analysis tests. The test would be
given to seeds produced at the farm or by outgrouers. At the regional
level, control would be exercised on base seeds and controlled seeds, and
would be done through both field tests and laboratory tests for all seeds
produced in the area. Field tests would be made by research staff and
authorized technicians, while lab tests would be performed at research
stations or on regional seed farms and in the long-ternm, in follow-up
phases by some field offices of BUNASEM.  At the central level, control
would be limited to lab analysis performed on all types of seeds. This is
the final control point serving to confirm the results of the tests made at



-32-
the regional and local levels. BUNASEM would prepare guidelines for field
control, sample taking, frequency of testing, establish control standards
and maintain reference files.
4.17      The drafting of a seed legislation and the establisbment of a
variety catalogue of approved varieties of food crops might not begin until
later in the project implementation period both to be completed by mid
1988. However, a preliminary inventory of existing varieties and field
control techniques would be prepared earlier on with a view to give BUNASEM
a framework for the preparation of its preliminary guidelines of seed
quality control. During project implementation these guidelines would be
tested on their practicality and effectiveness, giving a sound basis for
drafting the final proposals of seed legislation. Since legislation takes
time to be enacted, planning for its enactment would begin as soon as
possible. Formal enactments would, however, likely be realised in a
follow-up phase of the proposed project (para 3.05 and 3.15).
Technical Assistance
4.18      BUNASEN would be responsible for implementing this component, by
employing various specialists (para 4.08). Each of them would develop an
annual work program jointly with Zairian collaborators. These work
Programs would help guide the specialists' activities and at the same time
monitor project performance. Il total there would be three positions at
BUNASEM, and one position at each seed farm (para 3.23). Technical
specialists would play the varying role of catalysts, as vell as executive
agents, depending on the requirements of the specific circumstances. In
addition the specialists would take active part in the training
activities. The costs of time and travel spent in training activities
would be imputed to this component. The primary objective for their
presence would be to help build BUNASEM's and the seed farms' institutional
capacity in the long rua, which would require that they be able to impart
appropriate technologies and approaches to their Zairian counterparts. The
terms of reference and work program of each specialist would clearly
indicate this competency and attitudinal requirement. The need for
short-term consultancies would be identified by the Director of BUNASEM in
consultation vith his advisors. The employment of a techaical, and a
financial advisor would be a condition of effectiveness.
TrainiLn
4.19      Primary responsibility for implementing this component would rest
with BUNASEM lnitially under direct control of the Director of BUNASEM, and
on medium tern under control of the administrative unit (para 3.05). In
close collaboration with the managers of contracting agencies BUNASEM would
develop a master training plan for each of the specialized activity areas
under its purview. The plan would be made operational annually by
including the training actions in BUNASEM's work program and budget.  The
master plan would indicate not only the number of persons to be trained and
the subject areas but also information on eligibility conditions, criteria
and procedure for selection, binding obligations upon training completion
if necessary, and provisions for replacement of staff during the training



-33-
period as well as for their utilization upon return to work. Training
actions would be evaluated periodically to ensure that the programs would
respond to needs (Table 8).
Studies, Pilot Projects.
4.20      BUNASEM would have the responsibility to impleinent this
component.  It would determine the need and develop the terms of reference
for these studies and interventions, screen the candidates, employ staff or
consultants to execute the studies and supervise and evaluate their work.
The market studies (para 3.10) vould be carried out by ad hoc consultants;
the cost accounting and the internal monitoring systema would be
established during the first project year; and the mid-term evaluation
study by the end of the second year (para 4.26). Preparatory work for
changing 3UNASEH's status into an independent public office (para 4.07)
would start in the second year, while preparation for the next phase would
start in the fourth year. The study on further integration of the private
sector would be carried out as soon as possible under the aegis of the
Director of BUNASEM by a teau including representatives of the Goverament,
private agricultural enterprises in Zaire, international seed enterprises
and an independent expert in seed technology (para 3.21). The study on the
possibility ta produce econoumical maize hybrids in Zaire vould be
Contracted out by BUNASEN later on in the project period to a qualified
iastitution. The pilot projects (e.g. Bloc A at Kasese and -minikits")
would be contracted out by BUNASEM. Tie pilot at Kasese would be
implemented through n tripartite agreement with the Kasese project and the
Kaniama research station, whereby the Kaniama station vould be responsible
for day-to-day supervision of activities. The -mlnikit pilot wetuld be
contracted with one of the seedfarms (para 3.21). Such contracts would be
incorporated In the annual work programs of BUNASEM and the concerning seed
farm or research in-stitute. Disbursements for these activities would be
made against the approved work programs (paras 4.10, 4.12, and 4.22).
D. Reporting
4.21      BUNASEM would be responsible for implementing and supervising
reporting responsibilities. The Project would be implemented on the basis
of annual work programs and budgets. These documents would serve as a
planning, implementation and monitoring tool. Each would include a
statement of objectives (quantified) and specify detailed investuent and
staffing needs; estimatel operating expenses indicating financial and
physical resources to carry out the proposed program; and a financing plan
indicating the source of funds for the investment and operating budgets
(IDA credit categories, co-financier funds, government counterpart funds,
sales and special loans). The programs and budgets proposed for the seed
farms should be compatible with the multi-annual production policy of the
seedfarms (para 4.12) and the developed marketing strategy for each region,
and should be reflected in the annual agreements to be concluded between
BUNASEM and the participating agencies (para 4.23). BUNMASE should
consolidate the separate programs and budgets in an overall financing plan
(para 4.12) and a procurement plan of purchases and works and including
type of bidding and timetables.



-34-
4.22      Preparation of the annual work program would follow the
Government's budget cycle in order to reauce risks of major discrepancies
between the figures proposed in the program and official goverument
allocations. The preparation timetable would therefore respect the
following schedule; (i) the first draft work program would be prepared
during April by the seed farus and BUNASEM; (li) a consolidated draft for
the whole project would be transmitted to IDA at the beginning of May for
preliminary review and comments; (iii) a final proposal would be presented
by BUNASEN to the Commissaire d'Etat, for his reviev, through the
Department of Project Administration, mid-June; (iv) DADR would incorporate
Project financing needs in their respective budgetary requests presented to
the Departments of Finance and of Planning end June; (v) the annual program
wvuld be submitted to the National Coordinating CommLittee and Parliament by
the end of October. IDA's approval of the revised annual program would be
the basis of disbursement for the activities to which the work program
applies. Assurance vere obtained at negotiations that the annual work
program vould be submitted to IDA according to the timetable outlined
above.
4.23      Project funding would be provided by the Governuent through
budgetary allocations and loans, IDA, UNDP and possibly the Italian
Governuent in quantities and on conditions as described in paras 3.25 to
3.30. BUNASEN would annually prepare before December 31 a financing plan
of BUNASEM and the seed-farms, based on approved budgets. This plan would
be reflected in the annual contracts with the research institutions (para
4.09) and the organizations managing the seed farma (para 4.11). The
financing plan would be regularly updated on the basis of the quarterly
financial reports of the seed farms in order to enable the BUNASEN to
inform the Governuent in advance of possible changes and the need for
seasonal credit arrangements.
4.24      Progress reports.  BUNASEM would prepare semi-annual reports
describing progress in achieving work program targets, comparing actual
costS with budget estimates, and explaining variations between actual and
planned results in these areas. Comparisons between actual results and
appraisal estimates would also be provided for selected project
indicators. Another important function of the semi-annual reports would be
to analyze major problems encountered, propose solutions to these problems,
and identify decisions and/or actions required by the Government. The
reports would be made available in June and December in order to provide
timely input into the annual work program exercise. Assurances to the
above were obtained at negotiations.
L. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.25      Monitoring activities would be carried out by a Monitoring Unit,
reporting directly to the Director of BUNASEN. The unit would collaborate
with BUNASEN's administrative and financial unit, and seed farm managers in



-35-
order to establish an effective system of data collection. Monitoring
activities would provide project management and Governuent with information
on key Project indicators, laying the basis for evaluation of
implementation progress and impact of project activities on farm families.
Information collected would be analyzed and reported to management on a
regular basis, and vould constitute a critical input into semi-annual
progress reports (para 4.24) and the annual work program (paras 4.21,
4.22). Short-term consultant support would be provided as appropriate
(BUNASEM's advisors or ad hoc consultancy) during the first year of project
implementation to assist with the establishment of monitoring activities.
Monitoring Unit staff vould initially consist of a chief and assistant, and
expanded according to needs.
4.26      Project evaluation would be made ia two steps: a mid-term
evaluation and an ex-post evaluation carried out at the conclusion of the
project implementation period. The mid-term evaluation would be carried
out as an independent exercise by short-tera national or international
consultants who would be responsible to the State Commissioner of
Agriculture and the National Seed Board. The mid-term report would provide
also inputs for the annual progress reports and the completion report. The
report would be made available no later than December 31, 1987 to the
Ministry of Agriculture, the National Seed Board, participating agencies,
and external funding agencies. BUNASEM vould prepare a Project Completion
Report (PCR) by the project completion date, and would subait this report
to IDA no later than six months after the credit closing date. The PCR
would summarize project performance, evaluate its Impact on agricultural
Production and underline lessons to be taken into account for the
implementation of a follow up phase and similar projects. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations.
V. SEED PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION
A. Demand
5.01      The total requirement for planting seeds depends on the area
planted, the applied level of tecbnology and the type and quality of seeds
used. Farmers may meet their requirements from their own harvest or by
purchasing seeds from neighbours or from seed farms. The yield potential
Of farmers' own seeds decreases more or less rapidly depending on the type
of seed or crop. Hybrid maize seeds, for example, have to be purchased
annually in order to maincain their yield level; composite maize seeds
degenerate sharply after three or four years, while rice seeds can be
replanted for about four to five years. Farmers generally observe a
certain renewal period, depending on the availability and qualitY of
Commercial seeds and the level of technology applied. Thus, the demand for
commercial seed may be considerably less than the requirement for planting
material (para 2.10).
5.02      In view of the difficulty and cost of transporting seed over long
distances in Zalre, the demand for controlled seed has been analyzed
separately for each of the five seed farms to be established by the
project. The analysis is based primarily on the following variables: (i)
farmer population in each seed farm area4/ (see also para. 6.02); (il) the
4/  It is defined as an area of 100 km radius surrounding each seed farm.



-36-
price of improved seeds; (iii) the farm gate price of the crops; (iv) the
incremental returu to labor with controlled seeds in relation to common
seeds; (v) the existence and efficiency of extension services in
disseminating relevant information and (vi) the availability and quality of
imported improved seeds. The details of the analysis are presented in
Annex 3 of the implementation volume. The conclusion is that the demand
for seeds significantly exceeds the production volumes projected at the
seed faras and, in the absence of alternative sources of supply of
comparable quality, (with the possible exception of amall quantities of
imported hybrid seeds), the seed farms should be able to sell their
production subject to certain qualifications with regard to seed quality
and marketing policies (paras. 5.03 and 5.04 below).
5.03      It would be necessary for BUNASEM and for each seed farm to
delineate a marketing strategy and undertake an intensive marketing
campaign aimed at smallholder farmers many of whom are probably not fully
avare of the benefits resulting from the proper use of controlled seeds.
Initially, this would consist of market studies to analyse market potential
and to establish sales strategies (para 3.10). The marketing personnel of
the seed farms would be expected to work closely with extension services as
well as other entities such as traders, missions, development projects and
agro-industrial concerns. Although the analysis of return to farmers'
labor (para. 6.08), indicates that the farmer would be better off using
improved seeds priced at or above full cost recovery cost levels, it may be
appropriate in certain areas to adopt an initial 'promotional pricing"
strategy designed to facilitate introduction of controlled seeds to first
time users (para. 6.03).
5.04      The demand for seed would also depend on the quality of seeds
marketed by the seed farms. Experience in ongoing project indicate that
farmers are interested in buying seeds at the expectation of a production
increase of about 25%. However, a sound marketing policy should aim at a
50% yield margin between improved and traditional seeds (para 5.12).  The
utilizatlon of the full production potential of improved seeds depends also
on the quality of cultivation practices of the farmers buying the seed.
The project would therefore provide funds for a pilot project, producing
inputs packages containing seeds, fertilizers and pesticides aiming at
improvement of cultivation techniques. Such package deals have proven to
be successful elsewhere and if successful in Zaire, they would increase
demands for seeds (para 3.21). Based on available data and the above
considerations a likely demand has been estimated per seed farm.  Initial
farm and production developuent bas been based on this likely demand and on
possible seed production developments by other seed production centers.
The estimates by crop are given in para 5.07.
B. Production and Yields
5.05      Production of base seeds.  The production of base seeds would in
the firat place be geared to the forward production planning of the seed
farms (para 4.12), in order to avoid any shortfall in base seed which vould
have a serious impact on the quality of commercial seed. There is no risk
of overproduction because any surplus can always be sold as commercial
seed. In the second place, the production of base seed should be much more



-37-
Concentrated, preferably at the research centers in order to facilitate
control of genetic purity and seed quality. The cost factor of base seed
plays an insignificant role in the price structure of commerclal seeds, and
any quality risks should therefore be avoided. A major constralnt at
present is the seed processing and storage capacity at the research
centers. The project would provide funds to eliminate such bottlenecks at
the research centers (para 3.16).
5.06      Base-seeds would be produced mainly by the following stations:
Maize:          Kipushi, Kaniama,    -ajika and M'poy and Mulungu
for high altitute varieties;
Rice:           Yangambi and Mavunzi; and
Grain legumes:. Gandajika, and Mulungu for high altitude
varieties;
Cassava:        M'vuazi and the main seed production centers (for
elite cuttings);
With the development of the seed production structure, other
research centers could be included in the metwork of stations producing
base-seeds (e.g. Bambesa).
The total projected qlantities of base seeds are relatively small
(e.g. about 30 tons for maize, 15 tons for rice, 30 ton for groundunts).
5.07      Controlled seed would be produced at the seed farme financed
under the project, and on other seed producing units operated elsewbere by
rural development projects or non goveramental organizations (mainly
religious centers). The total projected production for controlled seeds in
Zaire is at year five:
Other seed
Project assisted                    producing
seed farms          Out-Growers    units           Total
............ ..... (tons/year). .......... ....
maize                      872                750         1,000         2,622
rice                        78                 33           150           261
groundnuts                 327                 16           150           493
beans                       56                 16          600            672
soya                        76                 15           -              93
cassava cuttings (in       560              4,840          n.a          5,400
000 meters
The total planted area per seedfarm ranges from 120 to 240
hectare at year five of the project, while the area planted by outgrowers
is expected to lncrease to about 400 hectare in total (tables 9 and 10).
5.08      Outgrowers.  Controlled seeds would also be produced by
outgrowers, to be selected and trained by personnel of the five seed
farms. The degree of participation depends on the level of developuœent of
the suall farmers in each seedfarm area.  In those areas where farmers have



-38-
already been exposed over a long period to intensive extension service, the
production by out-growers could be initiated rather quickly. Elsewhere it
may take some years to train farmers ln this type of production.  The seed
farm would enter into agreements establishing the farmers' obligation to
sell ita produce to the seed farm, specifying standards of cultivation, use
of inputs, and farm gate price of approved production. Seed production by
out-grovers would be controlled by trained field-inspectors.  The seed farm
would supply to outgrowers, base seeds, fertilizers and chemicals, which
costs would be subtracted from the price to be paid at harvest time.
Average operating cost8 of outgrowers seed could be above the costs at the
seed farm depending on (i) the need to pre-finance inputs; (ii) extra
transport costs; and (iiI) rate of rejection. However, it would reduce the
fixed costs at the seed farm and would help promote the use of controlled
seeds among the farmers. The ultimate objective is to produce the majority
of seeds through outgrowers and limit the area of seed farms to about 200
ha, to ensure minimal seed production and, carry out verification tests.
The entire production of outgrowers would be processed at the seed farm
plant. Estimates of controlled seed production at the seed farm and by
outgrowers are presented in Tables 9 and 10.
5.09      Yields.  Yields of controlled seeds at the seed farm level are
normally below those of yields of grains produced on vell cultivated farm
land, because of losses due to rejection during field inspection, and
losses during drying, processing and storage. It is assumed that such
losses amount to 20Z. However experience with seed production in Zaire is
limited and losses during the initial period could be higher. Although the
quality of data collection has been weak, experience in ongoing development
projecta show au average increase potential for maize of 20% to 100%,
depending on cultivation practices applied by the faruer. In
general, yield :ncreases at farm levels due to the use of improved seeds
are more pronounced in areas where the introduction and distribution has
been supported by a systematic extension effort. A comparison of present
and expected yield levels are given below and in table Il:
Range of yields             Range of expected yields
using currently               using improved seeds
available seeds (ton/ha)       seeds (or cuttings) ton/ha
maize                 0.7 -  1.0                       1.2 -  2.6
rice                  0.7 -  1.0                       1.0 -  1.5
groundnuts            0.5 -  0.8                       0.8 -  1.2
beans                 0.4 -  0.6                       0.8 -  1.2
soybeans              0.4 -  0.6                       0.8 -  1.0
cassava               6.0 - 10.0                      10.0 - 15.0
Actual yield depends on growing conditions, i.e. rainfall, soil,
farming techniques, etc. lu many circumstances, :he use of improved seeds
trigger other husbandry improvements and the use of fertilizers. It i6
often difficult to separate the impact of individual factors. For
calculations of the economic impact, the following yields, to be obtained
in year 5, vere applied: maize (1,500 hglha); rice (1,000 kg/ha);
groundnuts (1,100 kg/ha); beans (900 kg/ha); soybeans (900 kg/ha); and
cassava (11.3 tons/ha).



-39-
C. Distribution of Seeds
5.10      The distribution systeu may vary significantly among seed farms,
depending on market characteristics, the diversity of seeds, the efficiency
of extension services, the impact of development projects and the state of
transport and communications infrastructure. Initially, the seed farms
would undertake the distribution of seeds and the project vould make
provisions to acquire adequate means of transport. The cost of seed
distribution vlll be integrated in the sales price. Costs have been
estimated on the main assumption that a seed farn vould serve a
distribution area vith a 100 km radius, supplying up to 40,000 farmers.
During the initial phase distribution would be made up to the level of
farmer groupe, and after development of a better trade network up to the
level of retail outlets or stockist. The distribution costs would vary
between 0.20 and 0.25 Z/kg of seed. It is expected that the private sector
will gradually increase its role in seed distribution (paras 6.01 and
6.02).
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Market and Prices
6.01      Marketing channels for seeds as for most other commodities are
fot vell developed in the rural areas of the country. This is a result of
the lingering effect of the Government policies of the seventies (paras
1.07, 1.08 and 1.11) and of the great difficulty In setting up an effective
marketing system due to lack of adequate transportatio_ and communication
infrastructure, lack of information and, until the recent liberalization of
prices, counterproductive intervention by the Government. Although the
market potential for improved seeds is substantial, a special effort vill
be needed to translate market potential to actual sales and revenues for
the seed farms.
6.02      Although the situation varies from one seed farm to another, the
market is generally characte?ized by two groups of potential consumers.
The first consista of those who are avare of improved seeds sad of their
value in increasing crop yields, and the second of those who do not yet
fully appreciste the value of good seeds. Marketing of seeds vould
initially be concentrated on the first group while at the same tie
intensive efforts would be undertaken to promote sales to the second group
who in the longer. term are expected to constitute the bulk of controlled
seed usera. The Project would provide fundg and technical assistance to
organize marketing units in each of the seed farms as well as a support
group vithin BUNASEN (para 3.05 and 3.10). In addition, marketing efforts
by the project would have to be closely coordinated vith extension
services, particularly vith respect to smallholder farmers.
6.03      Prices.  In the past, seeds in Zaire have been distributed free
or at heavily subsidized prices (para 2.12). Although the Government
Recently curtalled seed subsidies, those produced in Government seed faras
are often underpriced in relation to their cost of production. Prices for
maize seed vary from 6-30 Z/kg, as compared to the variation in
grain-prices of 4-15 Z/kg. The price of high quality seed under further



-40-
developed circumstances is normally a multiple of the grain price. In
south Shaba, for example, farmers have been paying about 30 Z/kg for hybrid
seeds while the farugate price for maize is about 4-6 Z/kg, and elsewhere
good composite seeds may be found for 20 Z/kg. The situation for rice and
peanuts is less clear, due to the lack of good seeds. Rice seeds are
offered for 4-15 Z/kg and peanuts from 10-20 Z/kg. Although information on
farugate prices is not very reliable, they probably vary between 3-8 Z/kg
for rice, and 6-10 Z/kg for peanuts. This illustrates that knowledgeable
farmers accept realistic prices for seeds of good quality.
6.04      Pricing policy would be based on the principle that the seed
farms should become self-financing operations. Seed prices, therefore,
should cover ail costs, while at the same time, taking market forces into
consideration. Furthermore, to the extent possible, revenues should be
increased through greater volume rather than greater profit margins. In
this analysis, it is assumed that for the first three years prices will be
set equal to estimated production cost, thus making controlled seeds
somewhat more expensive than those currently produced at Government seed
farms and about the same as imported hybrid seed in the Shaba region.
Similarly, it is assumed that by year five of the.-project, prices would be
about 20% above cost. A breakdown of projected prices by type of seed in
each seed farm is presented in Table 12. In practice, prices would be set
by the management of each seed farm in line with the principles and
considerations cited above. Thus, they may decide to accelerate or
decelerate bringing prices of individual crop seeds into line with costs,
depending on the particular circuastances and market characteristics for
each farm. Assurances vere obtained at negotiations that the Goverament
-would agree for pricing policy and seed prices to be established at the
seed farm level. These vould be part of the Annual Work Program which
would be reveiwed and approved by IDA (paras. 4.10, 4.12 and 4.22).
B. Financial Projections
6.05      The financial analysis vas conducted for each of the five seed
farms, which are expected to become financially self-sufficient and
eventually be transferred to the private sector. The financial operations
of seedfarms are expected to result in deficits during initial years of
operations and in positive net revenues for years 5 through year 20, and
for some at an earlier stage. Cash flow statements, financial rates of
return, aad related net present value and sensitivity analyses are shown in
Tables 13 to 17.
6.06      The financial rate of return for each of the seed faras has been
calculated as shown below:
Seed Farm         FRR (Z)
Kwilu Ngongo          1
Pindi                 13
Mpoy                  18
Shaba                 il
Haut-Zaire             8



-41-
These rates represent conservative overall assumptions vith
respect to seedfarm development and the particular circumutances present at
each location. For example, it is assumed that only half of the annual
production of controlled seede would be sold within the same year and the
remainder vould be sold the folloving year. The sensitivity analyses,
(Tables 13-17), indicate that FRR's are rather sensitive to lag8 in
revenues and if the time period between production, sales and revenue
collection i8 shortened, profitabiity would increase significantly.
Similarly, it has been assumed that sales prices duriug the firet three
years would be equal to production costs. Whereas this may be realistic
for certain farns, i.e. Pindi and Kwilu-Ngongo, it probably underestimates
potential revenues for the other farie. Finally, the FRRs reflect the
relatively high proportion of fixed costs to total costs. Thus, those
farms expected to reach productive capacity levels relatively soon, such as
Mpoy and Kwilu-Ngongo, also have the higher FRRB. On the contrary, Shaba
and Haut-ZaIre, where, due to lack of existing infrastructure, developmnent
and production are expected to occur more slowly, the respective FRRs are
lower. *owever, once the initial start-up period is completed, both Shaba
and Haut-Zaire seed farme should be able to attain higher levels of
profitability, particularly since fariers in those areas are knowledgeable
of the value of good seeds and market potential is high.
C. Farmers' Income
6.07      Farmerst incomes vould depend on many variables includlng crop
mix, quality of seeds, and cultivation techniques applied by the farmer-
Late planting,for instance, can easily ellminate any potential yield
increase obtainable from the proper use of better seeds, whereas the use of
fertilizer would enhance the effect of better seeds.  Seed farin  should
make sure that its product perforas well in the particular region where it
is sold, otherwise the enterprise vould not become successful. Therefore,
it should continuously verify the impact of the use of its seeds on
farmers' lncome, ln order to ensure that the regular purchase of seeds ls
profitable for the farmer.  Since the seed farmg would be located in
varlous distinct regions of Zaire, it would not be feasible to prepare faru
modela representation of all regions. Thus, an analysis of the flnancial
impact from the use of controlled seeds on the farner bas been doue by
estimating the impact on return to labor for each crop per hectare, using
estimated average yields, seed prices and crop prices. (Tables 18-22).
6.08      Use of controlled seeds lnstead of farmer's own seeds would
result lu higher cash returna to family, as shown below:
Maize     Rice   Groundnuts   Beans   Soybeans
Co0t of controlled seeds
(Z/kg)*                         20        20         20        30        25
Producer price                   7         5.5        8        16         8
Increase in return
to famlly labor                 28        33         44        43        33
(in percent)
*         Based on the average co0t of production of the five seedfarms for
year 1.



-42-
On the basis of assumptions concerning prices, yields and fara
coste presented in tables 18-22, it is estimated that the minimal yield
increase to induce farmers to buy controlled seeds instead of common seeds
ranges from 16X for maize to 39X for rice. Under the same assumptions, the
average maxiuum prices which farmers vould be villing to pay for controlled
seeds have been estimated at about 27 Z/kg for maize, 20 Z/kg    for rice,
27 Z/kg for groundnuts, 60 Z/kg for beans (if storage is avallabe, or 40
Z/kg if it is not), and 35 Z/kg for soybeans.
D. Cost Recovery and Fiscal Analysis
6.09      The seed farus are expected to be financially viable in the long
run so that they can be transferred to the private sector. To this end
agreement vas reached at negotiations to the principle that improved seed
prices would be set by the management of each seed faru to cover operatlg
costs; which includes seed production, purchase from outgrowers,
conditioning and marketing costa and linear amortization charges at full
developoent in year five.  The farms would thus become self-sustaining,
capable of reneving its assets. The objective vould be to ensure the
profitable operation of the seed farm in the long run as well as a wide
distribution of seed sales to all farmers in the surrounding areas (paras
3.09 and 3.10). Several factors could cause difficulties for full cost
recovery at the initial stage of development of the seed faru. One is past
experience when farmers vere given seeds for free, or at subsidized
prices. Another is the lack of farmers' confidence and appreciation of
coumercial seeds, because In the past seed quality has at times been poor
or unavailable at planting time. As a result noue seed farms may use
promotional prices at the early stage of developuent (para 6.04).
6.10      Quality control will incur operating costs of Z 2.1 million
(US$ 0.061 million), which would not be recovered, since the control
service vill still be in its development phase during the implementation
period. In a follow-up phase however seed certification charges could be
levied, as soon as a control services becoues fully ladependent. The
Assistance to research component ineurs Z 4.9 mlllion (USS0.141 milllon)
operating costs, mainly consisting of operational cost at the Mavunzi rice
station. After Project completion the station ghould have become
self-sufficient in the production of base seeds, and vould not create a
budgetary burden. At the other research stations the price of base seeds
would recover vithin one or tvo years full production costs (para 5.05).
6.11      BUNASEM is expected to incur operating coste of almost Z 61
million (USS1.8 million) in the five year project period, including
physical and price contingencies. These coats vould not be recovered and
would be considered a public service cost. Assuming that year five of the
project vould be representative, the Governuent would need to make
avallable about Z 19 million per year (in 1990 prices) for BUNASEM's
operations, plua additional amounts to replace equipment and vehicles.
Part of operating coste would be offset by lncreased duties on fuel,
vehicles, spare parts as well as taxes on seed fara payrolls and on seed
faru profits after they are transferred to the private sector.



-43-
6.12      During the project period the Government would be expected to
contribute to the Project the equivalent of about US$2.0 million, primarily
for buildings and civil works, and pay coumit ent and service charges to
IDA. Seed sale revenues during that period, amounting to about US$2.4
million would be used exclusively for seed farm operations, but would
technically constitute Government revenues until the farms are transferred
to the private sector. Once the seedfarma are sold to the private sector,
the Covernment would continue its support to BUNASEM which would require
annual budgetary allocations of about Z 28-31 million (U.S.$800-900
thousand). In addition the Government would need to meet its obligations
to IDA.  The Goverument would rely primarily on tax recelpts from the
profits of seedfarms to offset at least part of these costo, (tables 23 and
24). Additional Government revenues wvould occur from the sale of the
seedfarns and other contributions in the form of private sector payments to
Governuent public welfare prograus (workers insurance, etc.).
E. Credit
6.13      It is not antic1pated that BUNASEM and the seed farma will need
credit other than that provided through the project. During the first
year, all costs vould be covered by IDA, UNDP and the Goverament. During
the same period, the seed farin  would be expected to accumulate the
equivalent in Zaires of about US$100 thousand. That would be used as
working capital for subsequent years for the seed farms, along vith a
portion of the revolving fund to be set up as a Speclal Account (para
3.30). Working capital for BUMASEN would be provided through the Special
Accouat (Project Cash Flow la presented in Table 23).  The Special Accouat
to be set rp under this project ia expected to meet vorking capital
requirements during the project period. If in the course of the
preparation of annual financial plana, (vith the help of the Financial
Advisor to be recruited through the Project), lt iL foreseen that
additional credit would be necessary the governhent would updertake to
facilitate for lines of credit to become available from commercial banks or
from Government lending institutions such as the Agrieultural Credit Bank,
the Fonds de Convention de Developpement, or others.
6.14      The purchase of controlled seed represents a saall proportions of
the farmera' total production cost. In most cases, farners would be able
to finance purchases through their own resources. However, there may be
instances when credit would be necessary, as for example in the case of the
amall farmers when they need to buy seeds at the tite when school fees muet
be paid: Whereas medium scale farmers (15 ha, and above) nornally have
access to credit through commercial banks or suppliera' credit, small scale
farmers rarely have acceas to formal sources of credit, but muet rely on
informal sources, such as traders, local lenders, relatives etc.
6.15      In view of the multi-component nature of the project and the fact
th-t production of controlled seeds at the scale and level of quality
envisaged would be a new venture in Zaire, a credit program is not included
as part of the project. Such a program vould greatly burden the
administrative capacity of BUNASEM, would incur substantial costs leading
to excessive seed prices, and vould constrain the implementation of other
Project components.



-44-
F. Budgetary Syste.
6.16      Government budgetary proeodures are complex and not vell
understood within the technical ministries.  This has beon a particular
problem for the agricultural sector, as DADR'. budgetary rquwest» have
traditionally not been vel} propared and allocations have fallen far
short of needs. Obtaining release of approved allocations has also beon a
problem, due to Governo4nt efforts to respect agreed ceilinga under IMF
programe and to unfamliarity of DADR and projecta staff vith procedures to
follow. Inability to obtalu funding in a timely nanner has had a
particularly adverse offect on agricultural projects, as activities muet be
undertaken in conjunetion vith the cropping calendar or not at all.  The
Governuent in avare of the weaknesses in the functionning of the budgetary
system and i8 now establishing an action program for improved fi mncial
management, ineluding DADR budget elaboration and staff training. To
support continued action In this area agreemont vas reached at nogotiations
that the Governuent's budgetary allocatlon for the Project would be
released in accordance with the lmproved management systen.
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Justification and Benefits
7.01      Increased supply and proper use of iuproved seeds in Zaire would
be one of the most effective and economical ways to improve agrieultural
production. This vould beot be accomplished by establishlag a seed
production capacity vithin the country rather then rely on aeed importe.
The latter would be more expeosive, la-country transport coat vould be very
high and the scarcity of foreign exchange could severely hamper
availability. The Project vould. concentrate on the production of food
crop seeds and vould therefore constitute a very important eleinut In the
Government's policy to achieve food self-uufficiency. Increased production
would substitute for food Importa, laprove nutrition, and could, in the
long run, allow Zaire to regain its carlier position as a food exporter.
The project vould generate additional revenues for the rural population,
mainly suallholder farmeru, la sous of the poorer areas of the country.
Substantial quantSties of the lacremental production vould b. marketed
locally or interregionally. This vould help rehabilitate the rural
marketing netvork which la stlll recovering from the effectu of sarlier
Covernuent policies (para. 1.17). It would also contribute significantly
to the institutional developsent in the country and to the training of a
number of ZairSans In various disciplines. Since one of the basic
principles would be to operate the keed farus on a *ound f inanctal basis
and eventually have thea operated by the private sector, the Project vould
have a positive impact on the effort to reduce Goverument intervention ln
the econooy and strengthen private sector operations.
7.02      quantifiable benefite.  The Project vould reeult in substantial
incremental production of several food producta as sbova overleaf:



-45-
Estimuted Annual Incremental Production
lqwp.       Year 1   2    3    4       5       6     7        8        9       10
(MMS)a/
M1oe            -   -    -   3,1X   11,967  17,695  20,727  23,182   25,145   26,727
Soybem          -    9   83   178    518    836    946   1,055    1,300    1,409
Golndts         -   89  263   756   1,337   2,144   2,788   3,282    3,813    4,244
OMs             -    2   16    72    267    400    545    722          944   1,12B
RIœ             -   -    40   190    394    416    529    653          832   1,012
Casava, cosettes  -   -   105   720  4,050  15,000  33,000  52,5D0    75,000  102,OOD
Omma, les    -   -    80   552  3,105  11,500  25,300  40,250   57,500   78,200
sava,  attL%Egsa -   -   140   960  5,400  20,000  44,000  70,000   10D,000  136,000
a'/ Chssava cuttirgs denoted in '000 oeters.
Inereased food production would be ipartly consumed by the rapidly
growing rural population, with remaininz.- e1antities marketed to urban
centers including Kinshasa, Matadi, Ibuji Mayi, Kananga, Kisangani and the
urban centers of the Shaba mining area. Most of the incremental production
vwould be in cassava, a basic staple of the rural population's diet
throughout Zaire except in the Shaba and Kasai provinces where maize is
Preferred. The incremental production of cassava (cosettes) due to the
project is projected to reach about 100 thousand tons by year 10. As a
point of reference, it is noted that in 1980, Zaire's production vas
estimated at 3 million tons. Incremental maize and paddy production would
substitute for importe of these commodities and result in an estimated
foreign exchange savings of US$3.3 million by the fifth year of the Project
and about US$27.9 million by the tenth year.5/
7.03      Non-quantifiable benefits.  In addition to the benefits described
above, the project vould have a positive impact in many other ways.  These
include training of goverrment and non-goverument employees, improved
nutrition for urban and rural population, an improved marketing network
which would open up opportunities for trading non-project commodities,
rural employment opportunities (about 1,000 new jobs in year 5 in the seed
farma and additional jobs in the marketing and processing activities),
incentives for improvement of agricultural research, promotion of private
sector activities in the rural areas and strengthening of government and
non-government institutions.
7.04      Beneficiaries.  It is estimated that about 200,000 farmers,
mostly smalîhIolders, would benefit directly from project activities by
having accesa to controlled seeds and cuttings. Others vould benefit
indirectly by folloving better husbandry techniques or obtaining better
seeds from neighbors. Many more of the rural population would benefit
lndirectly through increased food consumption and improved nutrition.
5/ Assuming 1985 import parity prices and continued imports of maize and
rice vhich in 1984 amounted to 200,000 and 60,000 tons, respectively.



-46-
B. Economic Analysis
7.05            For the purpose of the economic analysis, Project costs
include ail investment and operating costs for years 1-5 and all capital
equipment replacement costs and recurrent coste for years 6-20. Additional
costs include incremental farm labor costs. Since the majority of
controlled seed users would be smallholder farmers, farm labor is mostly
unpaid family labor valued at a shadow vage of Z 7.0 per day, which is
about 50% of the estimated average market wage in rural areas. An
additional cost would be for bags to package the marketable output. It is
assumed that 50Z of the incremental output would require new bags, the
remainder being conswned on the farm or packed in used baga.  Incremental
output would be transported an estimated average distance of 100 km by
truck or by rail.6/ Storage costs represent the estimated cost of
constructing silos for yearly incremental production, except for cassava
leaves and cuttings which are perishable and are not stored. All costs are
at 1985 prices and include physical contingencies.
7.06            Prices for the various crops represent an estimated average
of farm gate prices, except for maize and rice which were valued at import
parity prices.
nmnrt Parity
Pres                               Fazm Gate Pries
assava   Cssava    Cassava
)hize  Rice  Soyxsn   6       s   BSES   Cbsetts   Lavmes      nntLù
9     il      8          8        16       12       il          1 Z/M
The incremental production of each crop attributable to the
project is but a small portion of the total annual production of the
country and is not expected to have a significant impact on price levels.
An exception may be in cassava leaves which due to perishability may
experience a drop ln price if the supply increases. Bowever, even if the
prices were to drop by 50Z, the impact on the project'e economic rate of
return would be negligible (table 25).
7.07            Estimated incremental production for years 1-10 valued at
the prices, (held constant), described in para 7.06 represent the project's
qunatifiable benefits. Other benefits described in para 7.03 and secondary
benefits have not been quantified due to lack of reliable data. It is
assumed that planting wtth controlled seeds would not start until the
second year of the Project. Furthermore, start-up delays in timely
distribution, proper utilization and other factors would not allow full
productivity to be achieved until year 5 of the project. Thus, harvests In
years 2, 3 and 4 are 70%, 80% and 90%, respectively, of the full yield
expected when using controlled seeds.
61 67% by truck and 33Z by rail or boat.



-47-
7.08      The Project's economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated over a
twenty-year period. A standard conversion factor of 1.0 was applied as it
vas assumed that the Government would continue to apply exchange rate and
tariff policies which vould eliminate distortions between international snd
domestic price levels. On the basis of these assumptions, the project's
ERR was calculated at about 44X and the present value of the net benefit
stream at about US$70 million with a discount rate of 13.5Z (Table 25).
The high overall rate of returu reflects the significant Impact of
controlled seeds which result is substantial yield increases even in the
absence of other inputs such as fertilizers. Tnus a relatively modest
Stream of investment costs generates a substantial flow of benefits. Even
though a conservative approach has been adopted in the design and analysis
of this project, i.e. slow development of the seed farms (para 5.07) and
phased yield development, the ERR is quite satisfactory although not as
high as that calculated for similar projects in other countries7/.
7.09      Sensitivitv analysis. The economic rate of return was tested for
its sensitivity to changes in cost and benefit levels from 10% to 50Z and
in phasing from 1 to 3 years. The rate of return does not drop below 15Z
unless benefits are reduced by 50Z or costs increased by 50% and at the
same time benefits decreased by over 20Z. Thus the Project should result
In a satisfactory rate of return unless extreme, and unlikely, co0t
increases or time lags or both are experienced. The analysis also shows
that the rate of return is somewhat more sensitive to variations in
benefits than to that of costs. Consequently, attention should be given to
maintain production, quality, sales and proper usage of controlled seeds.
Switching values analysis indicates that benefits would have to be reduced
by about 51% or costs increased by over 100% for the present value of net
benefits to be equal to zero (Table 25).
C. Risks
7.10      The introduction of the production of controlled seeds at the
proposed scale is a new venture in Zaire. Thus there are risks with
respect to managemert of the seed farms, the quality and dedication of
technical personnel, the timely development of a quality control system,
the marketing and distribution of seeds and the receptivity of the
farmers. With respect to these risks, the project is ensuring that
qualified consultants are retained to assist in the management of the seed
farms, quality control and marketing of the product and control of seed
quality, and it would be a condition of disbursement that the seed faras
would be managed by capable institutions. As to the technical capability
of personnel, the Project would give high priority to a systematic
lmplementation of the training program. With respect to product
acceptability and proper usage, the marketing personnel of the seed farm
vill vork closely with extension services to ensure to the extent possible
that farmers utilize the seeds appropriately.
7/ A 1979 FAO study of controlled seed production projects in developing
countries reports that ERRs range from 30Z to 100% or more.



-48-
7.11      Other risks relate to tinely execution of the Project with
respect to three aspects: (i) possible delays of agreement between BUNASEM
and the management agencies for each of the seed farms: (ii) possible
delays in the allocation and allotment of the Government' s share of
financing; (iii) timely procurement of farm equipment; and (iv) the
adequate supply of base seeds. With respect to these risks, acceptable
agencies have been identified and discussions on drafting required
agreements are underway. Also assurances would be sought for timely
budgetary allocation and BUNASEN would employ a special procurement
officer. The implementation of the Project to revitalize the research
programs (vith USAID assistance) responsible for the supply of base seeds
is vell underway and signature of contracts between BUNASEM and these
programs would be a condition of effectiveness.
7.12      The most important risk factor would, however, be the proper
coordination by BUNASE[ of all participating agencies, in particular, that
vith the agricultural research structure, which would be responsible for
the supply of base seeds. It is the quality of BUNASEM's performance that
would define overall progress in the implementation of the project. To
this end, the project would ensure that qualified experts would be
available to assist BUNASEM's management in carrying out its central
coordinating and regulatory role, and IDA would put great emphasis on
maintaining a highly qualified officer as director of BUNASEM.
7.13      The innovative and integrated character of the project would
require a high degree of flexibility during project implementation from
participating public and private enterprises. This may cause additional
risks, but the high priority given by the Government to the development of
self-sustaining seed production industry and the importance of food
self-sufficiency would be important factors to minimize such risks to the
extent possible.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMOENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
points:
a) Policy Issues
(i)  the sales prices would recover full operating costs within the
project implementation period (paras 3.09 and 3.11);
(ii)  the Governuent would prepare a draft law for the regulation of
varietal registration, and seed quality control before December,
31, 1988 (para 3.15);
(iii)  the Goverument would take all necessary steps to facilitate the
provision of development loans to the seed farmsn (para 3.27);



-49-
(iv)  the Government would review the legal statue of BUNASEM vithin
two years after effectiveness and take steps to grant BUNASEN an
independent legal statue providing it with management autonomy
(para 4.07);
(v) the market prices of controlled seeds would be established by the
Beed production units in accordance with sound managerial and
marketing practices (paras. 6.04 and 6.09);
(vi)  the Government would release budgetary allocations for the
project in accordance vith the improved DADR financial management
systems (para 6.16).
b) Managerial Issues
(i) the Governuent would employ a qualified expert as Director of
BUNASEN, in consultation with the Assoc±atnr. (para 3.06);
(il)  adequate accounting procedures permitting the accurate
calculation of cost prices at the seed farns would be in effect
no later than 31 December 1986 (para 3.11);
(iii) the Government would establish a National Seed Board no later
than December 31, 1986 (para 4.04);
(iv) terms of reference and qualifications of tecbnical assistance
personnel would be acceptable to IDA (para 4.08).
c) Implementation Issues
Mi) participating agencies would maintain separate records and
accoumts for project activities executed under their
responsability, have them audited by external independent
auditors and submit them to BVNASEM for consolidation within
sixmonths of the end of the fiscal year (para 3.33);
(ii)  BUNASEM would maintain separate records and accounts for project
activities, have them audited and consolidated by external
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and submit them to IDA.
Within six months of the end of the fiscal year (para 3.33);
(iii) the annual work programs, budgets and procurement plans for
BUNASEM and the seed farmas, including draft annual contracts with
the participating agencies for research and farm management,
Would be submitted for IDA approval by October 31, each year
(para 4.22);



-50-
(iv)  an action plan for the implementation of the recommendations,
contained in the report of the interministerial study group for
the formulation of a long-term developoent plan of agricultural
research, would be prepared and presented to the Association no
later than June 30, 1986 (para 3.16).
d) Reporting Issues
(i)  BUNASEM would prepare semi-annual progress reports on Project
implementation and submit the reports to Governoent, IDA and the
National Seedboard, in the month of June and December (para
4.24);
(ii)  a mid-term report revieving implementation experience vould be
prepared by independent consultants no later than December 31,
1987 (para 4.26); and
(iii) BUNASEM would prepare a Project Completion Report by the Project
Completion date and DADR would review and submit a final
version of the report to IDA within six months after credit
closing date (para 4.26).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a)  key personnel of BUNASEN (Director and Section heada and
procurement officer) would be in place (para 4.05);
(b)  the signature of agreements between BUNASEN and the participating
agencies for research (para 4.09), and of three seed faro
management agencies (para 4.11);
(c)  the recruitment of a technical and a financial advisor, (para
4.18);
8.03      Subject to the above agreements being reached and conditions of
effectiveness being met, the proposed Project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of SDR 15.10 million (US$14.88 million) to the Government of Zaire.



ZÀDE
PFU    D'I1S!MRE A) N*4 »M           !&K1M  4'3M  HWr
aMM L ES1M       M     ffl~   1iU    BRISMVilWI
&çerfide/               >itlbxl~~~~~~f/ Y&an OMM  Fumio.i±4/lWrfait     h%mxxtknav Uflie    5.çflac  ai1tiv     AMx  qwim cLiItLi  lbdx        dei 
5taukm u ~frl/pe jkl/ chuftS/   EIe.*     dry sm                     ciInt    hl ai *& de la  w p    pi±s   ,wm  ati1±%â pK frmI Pa"  Po_ /"udw
Ion2         tr o       d<anlity     a      mls/uth               hafie atfaIWm    hjoe  am cLtLvta    e*rb   au    Of Mmli
ailtivihI - x   bci   tv Mau fa               ()                  .om
z                   Z
Kizai         9,965         23         23m        -        -              1----
?aire    53,9)             1.6         3D      Mo         3-5            1,20>1,68                15                     0                    1.2            XN
1ibûs       25,658          35           12     :>1,000   2-4             1,5-1, 00                 3                     8)                    1.6           410
lr t        402,29          2.9          7      2m  -"    1-2             1,BD-2,200                3                      )                   1.8            360
Hu 7e   D3,2))              3.8          8      M>-,ij    2-3             1,5>2,MD                   2                    75                    1.!           5»
l4w         Z6,662          4.5         182/   M>5,CD   2-3               1,«D-2,2D                 4                     9)                   1.4            53
abh         496,965        316           7    1,Ml>-2,C00   46            1,(»-1,«D                3                     4O                    L4            410
1as aOi    156,957          1.9         12       >I-,a     3-4            1,1-,83)                  6                     75                   1.8           Y3
KI et       168,216         1.9         12       -I,<X)   3-4            1,2X}1,10                 5                                          1.9            3
AEe       2,344,ef5        20          113/          -    -                      -                  35                    65                   1,5         3%170
17/ %dmtm   e1 Sq lo9& '1Ibn1m A&ille de 1 /glixwm ZdruWialpe",           46   -/kfri &I             w ?q3fr, 192'
2/ Au tW eaiu                                                                    2b nrth gu 24
3/ 40 pa hr  oe  c dainn oed e                                                   3Js0 ps  e  lu et --,Il  W.



ZURE
SEEDS PROJECT                  ,
Projet d'ac ea1       du Plo F attoeul S er
R& &nfUl ad c1 mt   ln i  rqm    of the _df    (t au)
Pluvioité et teit des r 4iu du foe   _owuwli                  (en < )
>913               vlilu             Kfbit    D      auW           (         it s  lMJe   1aU            T.çlo         lbM bi lKlab            Ibt  il            BA             xiQtEm       Km
*2W             tek &                h Ooe  r a    N. Shd    . 9dà    S. oe    11w                                            1m              rqitfl
au 2aire                                                     oriet                                                            laif
Jawer                  129             166            136            159           161         199          150          252            178          23              62             115         J1-
WIvri                  122             112           125             140           144         182          137          268            152         68               77             140        Mta  h
169 l34                       Z35             193          169          221         158          207             202        121              127             172          lWch
Mu                     240             W             Il              162           154         182          158            54           156         178              156            20* 411
mai                    110             101           7n               50           114           32          53             3           109         162              168            132             MW
Juin                    10              8              18              4            38           5           il            -             31         120          .141                 6             J
Jullet                   5              Il             16              7            43           5            7            -             32         153              168              2            -My
A&£t                     5              38            50              37           110          40           3D            -             71         19             137               2          hem
Sente                   32             155            127            102           185          77           59            3            111         179             172              36       Srger
(tttu                   98             198            172            137           ZO4         154          116            27           156         22B             Z23             131           r
bre                    227             221           234             213           Z25         223          177          164            197         133             155             237       lb_ber
DWeu                   183             163           232             217           202         243          164          261            219          49              68             15U
Am                   1,318           11611 1 569                   11421         11 749      1                                                                                                       12,4 ,1239  15614  16567  11657  le1vu
pliM itE                               133           144             143U          151         146          112          120            156         165             135              95           donu
Seaz sache                                                                                                                                                                                  drymuz
eSn h1rm                                                                                                                                                                                       ln d
A                       21              16             15             14            16          16           18            -              8          15               2              20
a                        2               2             2               -             2           -            2            -              -           2               2               -
T-                                                                                                                                                                                           _u
°am  'c                 25.5            24.1          23.7            24.4          24.1        24.0         24.2         20.3           24.4        24.3            24.3            24.9      bWUq
'c                     3D.6            36.5          35.2            34.2          37.6        32.0         37.0         36.9           36.1        36.0            37.4            36.6      icia.
Min  OC                 20.4            12.3           13.2           13.2          12.2         16.9        14.8           3.3           15.0       10.0             11.1           11.7      IlinI
oya i                   93              83            WD              75            84          66           i7           66             85          -               es              84         1  q
minimal                                 23             19             40            31          40           14            10            30          ts               18             32        1nfu
liaiatlon
3.9            5.8            5.9               S          5.2         -            6.4           6.1            5.4       te                6.0            4.6
",J.IM LOU,nt -   SeUUJPt uA 1Ily - tsa A m
F in. ___           -m                                                                                                                                             aJmy   . 1
2V   Am  un ir4guleité eatran alj                                                                                                                                  2/  ldth  w yem tle r&iW&U
>M) 39 a                                                                                                                                                           Aq e393ur
4/  >      20 m                                                                                                                                                        hou    20   e
5/ bratim  muale   1,541 _5 !oly e _wortioe- 1,541 m
D&Wxutin 1,250 w                                                                                                                                               6/ Evâpatn -1,250_ 
>beionr   d      , 849 a                                                                                                                                                                r         9 y;
Nw"r 15, 1914



SCEOS VKOJCtS
s,mary Accoua  y1~etCopm
(USt
SEEo FAINS                     SD1CAU                     ASSISTMCE                                                              flytecl
NAtIONAL                       TO       S OIE                                                 Contaeaîe0
0ILU                                LADu        DE      QUALITl   ESLlIIC    OTl1     PILOt    7111CAL        PROVSSIOIUL-
N0coI     »o0      -MASHA A   10<0    MAiSI    SqLMctS  toiIIloL ASSISTA      A»INS     POJECTS  ASSISTAICIC    1tAI0G            tOTAL        2        UOINT
I. IhNVUsINT COSTS
Buildings and Office Hatertal         43.6     542.2   315.8       487.9    200.0    410.0   688.6   703.0           -        -           -             _            , 3,651.1     8.7       319.3
lUea,y O4utpunt end Yaeieles         220.1     342.2    237.9      245.5    200.0    210.9      -      233.3                                                            . -  -  _  _  I,U.9  5.b  98.0
Vtum Intrastructure                    4.4     158.0   146.1       149.7    150.0      -        -       79.6         -        -           -             -                687.5     0.5        58.6
Proeeealng/Leb, Iqulpunt              75.8     216.7    103.9      117.0    97.0       -       70.9    153.3       202.2      -           -             -              1,036.6     8.2        8S.4
1ataeetNo and Kaîkutt4g               33.7      48.0     23.8       50.4     59.0      -        -        -           -        _           _             _                21S.0    11.4        24.5
Teehatcal AssiBtane                    -         -        -          -        -        -        '.5    "35.7        21.6   505.8      2,550.0                                      2 ,69.4  2.5  89.8
tatatna                                -                                                                                                             1,347.6               2.7     4.0        36.3
Total 10aesItmnt Coeta                377.6   1,307.0   b8l.6   1,050.4    706.0   620.9   965.0  8,7Ji.8           223.7    505.8     2,550.8        1,347.6          12,247.2     5.0       711.7
Il,* 58C181811  CDStS                                                                                                                                                                                  ,
lnere_ntel Salaries                   16.2      47.8     23.9       45.9     38.1    265.7    56.4    18.3           -        -           -             -                512.3     1.3         6.7
par Dteu Visite                        -         1.9      6.6        5.9      6.7     57.3     31.2      1.0              -               -             -                116.6     6.2         7.2
Kainteaeae. Oparation                 92.2    I64.6    153.2      171.3     10.5    112,2      9.9    365.2         -        -           -              _             1,11.1      7.8        ".7
Nooitoring 4ad Control                 -         -         -         -        -      316.2      -        -           -                                                   3 _  _  336.2  6.4   21,S
bgtoIai  rturea,,                      -         -        -         -         -       00.0      -                                         -o                                        .          0.0
îttematoo omd Marteting               44.0      50.7      24.4     317.8     24.1      -        -        -           -        _           -              _               182.2     2.9         3.2
Productieo of Stade                  269.2     783.6    U43.7      142.7    310.3    316.3      -        -           -        -           -                             .1754.9    4.3        75.9
Total 4eurrent Costa                  468.6   1,054.6    451.6      403.1    456.6   *31.3    i7.5    34.5            -        -           _              -             4,100.7     5.0       205.1
Total laoaline coete                  799.2   2,136.4  1,339.3   1,453.4  1,162.6  1,452.2  1,062.5  2,009.3        221.7   505.8      2,5S0.8        1,347.6          16,347.9     5.6       916.8
Ihyelcal Contineanelea              4U.5      152.0     U.8       101.7     51.9    89.4    103.4    148.6         10.7     52.4        33.1           36.3             916.8     0.0         0.0
Prie* ContIngenctee                 159.3    587.6    366.6       330.3   323.7    341.9    421.6   404.5          69.4   117.9        510.2          347.3           3.9U.2      5.4       216.6
total POJICt tOSTS                  1,001.0   3,101.0  1,794.7   1.885.4  1,$33.2  8,49,5  1,1U9.5 2,642.4          303.5   676.1    3,094.1          1,731.2          21,23.9      5.3    18133.4
Foreign £%change                      605.1   1,362.9    907.0   1,036.5    707.9   U84.5    731.0  1,645.2         239.3   522.8      2,602.4        1,237.4          12,446.0     5.1       634.7



ZAIRE
Seeds Project
Dibursements from IDA credit and Co-financier Grant
(US$ 000)
Category                UNDP Grant          Total cost excluding    Amount               IDA Credit
UNDP Grant                           Percent of Total Cost
As  Buildings and                   Excluding UNDP Grant
A. Buildings and
office Equipuent              70                    4,479              2,469                    52
B.  Heavy Equipoent/Vehicles    103                      1,857               1,857                  100
C.  Farm Infrastructure             -                      833                833                   100
De  Processing/Lab. Equip.        136                    1,120              1,120                   100
E.  Extension and Marketing        45                      209                 209                  100
F.  Training                      186                    1,499               1,499                  100
G.  Technical Assistance        1,150                    3,201              3,201                   100
H.  Recurrent Costs
1.  Incremental Salaries       -                       787                536                   68
2.  Operation and
Maintenance              130                     1,311                435                   33
3.  Monitoring/Control          -                      430                430                  100
4.  Regional Bureaus           70                        -                  -                    °
5.  Extension/Marketing         -                      218                101                    46
6.  Seed Production                                  2,286              1,059                   46
Io  Unallocated Amount              -                    1,133              1,133                   100
Total                   1,890                    19,363             14,882                   77
1/  Tbie UMDP grant would provide financing on a parallel basis.  PAO vould administer the grant.



Eings l or 2
ZAE
uitsC     by Ctegt=  ad Sroues of Finmce a)
ont cory/                                                                              L
Smwoe of ~Frnm               ______________%o__                                           f (bgt
1986     197       1988      1989       990      mmt       Ce
-          oe6Tc
A. Ebidi]d3p/Office Fqpu1mit 158.4    1013.2    1170.2    983.2    1224.0    4549.0       100
IDA                   48.2     580.7     689.0    511.8      639.7    2469.4       51
UIDIP                 60.0       10.0      -         -         -        70.0        2
Goknmiunt             50.2    400.5       434.2    449.4    503.3    1837.6        45
Soed fam suis          -        22.0      47.0    2Z.0        21.0     112.0        2
B. lim%y qFquifm/etVdeiiL    422.7     698.9     421.2    212.4     205.1    1960.3       lm0
Fa. FquLpit
Mks                  319.7    698.9      421.2    212.4    2M5.1    1857.3         95
UUNP                  103.0      -         -        -         -        103.0        5
C. Fam F Ikifrstructure       47.3    266.3      213.4    170.9     135.2    833.1       lDO
1pS                   47.3     266.3     213.4    170.9      135.2    833.1       100
D.  _ooessr/ab                79.5     349.2     363.4    297.4     167.3    1256.8       LDO
MkS                   79.5     299.2     313.4    261.4      167.3    1120.8       89
1IIIP                  -        50.0       50.0     36.0      -        136M0        il
L  Eboe uLarketir& 8.1                  41.6      33.7     47.6      49.5     253.5       100
I1n,                  81.1      11.6       18.7    47.6      49.5      285         82
UNWP                   -         30.0      15.0     -         -         45.0       18
F. 1rin1drM                  108.7    352.8      318.0    369.0    536.7    1685.2        100
Mi                    89.2    275.6      288.2    309.0    536.7    1498.7         89
U"IP                   19.5     77.2      29.8      60.0      -        186.5       il
G. Tedcacl ABastmie          523.2    1065.0    1Z9.3   1019.7      533.8    4351.0       100
li                   423.2    565.0      759.3   SP19.7      533.8    32>1.0       74
ULP                   100.0    500.0     450.0    100.0       -       1150.0       26
__b_t_l                     142>.9    3787.0    3729.2   3100.2   285Lfi   1488.9
MAI                 81082    2697.3    203.2   2432.8    2267.3   11188L8
UP                    28L25     667.2    5464.8    196.0      -       1690.5
G(IWT                  50.2    400.5     434.2    449.4    503.3    1837.6
SRFD FAN Sl[S          -        22.0      47.0     22.0       21.0     112.0
a)  fle  P It wIM be aIhn _tezs by FI&



-56- 56NZ 5
Puae 2 of 2
Cas    t   /                                                                         TTL
Source of FinMioe                                YaM                                       % of Cost
1986-    1987       1988       lm9s      Of9 h0              cae
H. Pseiren  Ccats
1. Ibrre e     l.arieb/ 69.6         118.2     163.3    2o4.1       213.3     786.5      100
MyC/                   51.5       70.1      106.4    139.5      168.7      536.2      68
Sbed faim .aJesd/       -         48.1      56.9      64.6       62.6      232.0      30
Gkerm-entd/            18.1        -         -         -          -         18.1       2
2. Nutntemice              62.0      2D4.7      332.8    398.9      442.9    1441.3      100
MDA                    12.0       59.3     100.9    122.2       140.2      434.6      30
UNDP                   26.5       26.0       26.0     26.0       26.0      130.5       9
Sued faim  MIk          -        119.4     205.9    250.7       276.7      852.7      59
Qwbernment             23.5        -         -         -          -         23.5       2
3. 1*nitorflncontro1       16.7       58.1      99.1      78.7      177.1      429.7     100
IDi                    16.7       58.1      99.1      78.7      177.1      429.7     100
4. RegioEl buresus         10.4       22.4      36.2       -          -         69.0     100
'NDP                   10.4       22.4      36.2       -          -         69.0     100
5. ^rteiion/ukeirig    49.6           32.5      57.6      35.0       43.3      218.0     100
mpà                    24.1       14.9      26.1      16.3       19.8      101.2      46
Soed faim sales         -         17.6       31.5     18.7       23.5       91.3      42
Gbvenoeit              25.5        -         -         -          -         25.5      12
6. Ssod Producbtlo         87.9      177.4     338.5    635.7    1047.0    2286.5        100
MAs                    42.1       83.3      156.2    292.6      485.0    1059.2       46
Seed fan  sain          -         94.1      182.3    343.1      562.0    1181.5       52
Q3wrnment              45.8       -         -         -          -          45.8       2
Subtotal RePorrem Costs       296.2      613.3    1027.5   1352.4    1941.6    5231.0        100
Mts                   146.4      285.7     488.7    649.3       990.5    2560.9       49
UNW                    36.9       48l4      62.2      26.0       26.0      199.5       4
Seed farn males         -        279.2     476.6    677.1       924.8    2357.7       45
Coueroeot             112.9        -         -                    -        112.9       2
I. UIallocated Aounrte/                                                          1133.0      100
Mf                                                                       133.0      100
TOAL                         1717.1    4440.3    4756.7   4452.6    4793.2   21252.9f/   100
IDA                  1234.6    2983.0    3191.9   3082.1    325&81    1488t7f/    69
UNIP                  319.4      715.6      607.0    222.0       26.0    1890.0        9
GouermBit             163.1      400.5      434.2    449.4      503.3    1950.5       10
Sued faim sn            -        301.2     523.6    699.1       945.8    2469.7       12
al rurcrer aerai.a  zem *î «   u     y ac   UmArt r~ gramx are presenera in              vo V011e.
IWt es per dineu                fr fil visite.
D/ be not  in s de    s    of seed f pese
I>       t oft axie£ s fr i       fnm
5/  anilEbe to mfen phylcal csobqaiea syazs.
1T/  inclMdostmaUacaaunt C E 1 133 tlxmuul for physicul oeot1nguufies.
R,te:    fvidmal nLrbers iimy not exectiy aid   tota]s dbe to rGzxIing.



-57-                            T       
ZA
m& Ficu Yen                    Qurtoly                   ve
_rtr                        DIabur                at bd or r
1985
S «o   3D, 198432                   25        A              25        A
DNfmer 31, 1984                    116        1             141        1
tmb 31, 195 3                       159       1             30D        2
Jime 30, 1985                      Mo         1             50D        3
1986
Se b   3D, 1985                    Mo         1             70         5
Deiroer 31, 1985                   250        2             950        6
Mrh 31, 1986                       250        2            12S 8
.hm 30, 1987                       3m         2            150D       10
1987
suer 3D, 1986                      543        4            2D48       13
Db«er 31, 1986                     576        4            2624       17
arch31. 1987                       656        4            3280D      22
JLui3D, 1987                       656        4            3936       26
1988
L *er  3D, 1987                    650        4            4514       30
.Deer 31, 1987                      651        4            5092       34
1hd 31, 1988                       794        5            S9m9       40
joe  3D, 1988                      795        5            6754       45
1989
Septe*o  3D, 1988                  684        5            7438       50
De  r 31, 1988                    685        5            8123       54
?krch 31, 1989                     86         5            8159       55
Jaue 30, 1989                      837        5            9796       65
1990
Septse  30, 1989                   760        5           10556       71
Ieber 31, 1989                     76û        5           11316       76
thrdh 31, 1990                     760        5           12D76       81
Jane 30, 199D 4/                   760        5           J2836       86
1991
Septuer 3D. 199D                   660        5           13496       90
a ure 31, 1990                     660        5           14156       95
t1hrd 31. 1991                     374        3           14530       97
Jne 3D. 19915/                     350        2           140        100
A. Imm dmn 14.09
Il Bon  cm cms eqtltoe ud r es zpsedn«   wit. agiotuela 1 project.
2/       1        to due udier PFF.
3 Famted dixeus iur PFF.
41  fpojsc  am.1tIa ditS-
Si  tm    cl«^ date.



-58-                       Table 7
ZAIRE
Seoda Prolect
Procurenant, Ditribution a/
(US$ million)
T.A.
Guide
Category                  Ica       LCB    Other    N.A.       Linon   Total
Buildings and office
equipment bl                           4.60    0.35                         4.95
Heavy equipment/vehicles           2.07                                         2.07
Farn infrastructure                        0.90                                 0.90
Processing and lab Equipment                        1.36 ci                     1.36
Extension and marketing dl                          0.20               0.08    0.28
Technical assistance d/                                                4.46    4.46
Training dJ                                                            1.73    1.73
Operating CoStS                                               5.50              5.50
Total                                                                     21
-,' Including physical and price continge-cLcs.
b,  Civil works and contruction of buildings uould be done on the basis of local
competitive bidding and procurement of office equipment and material. on the
basis of local or international shopping procedures. In addition, S69,000
worth of office equipnent would be procured directly by UNDP/FAO.
CI  Local or international shopping procedures.
dl  Work to be done by consultants would be avarded on the basis of the Bank's
relevant guidelines. Other materlal through local or international shopping
procedures.



ZAIRSE
SEZDS PYOJECT
Projet Assistence au Plan Semencier National
Training Schedule/Schema de Formation
Number  Unit costs            Persons per year            Total number       Duration        Number of
of    per course 1/                                    of persona          of course       participants
Course                                                                                       per course
Nombre  CoOt unitaire         Personnes par ann4e         Nombre total       Durfe de        Nombre partici-
cours   EU$ par personne 1/                               de perbonoes         cours         pants par cours
I    z - -3 - -4    5                         Mois/Month
I.   Formation a l'exterieur
Gestionnaire                        15000               1    I    1    I    1             5              3-4                 I            Management
Cadres de l'adeinistration          15000               1    1    1    1    1             5              3-4                  1           Administration
Techniciens semenciers              25000               1    1    1    1    1             5              5-6                  I           Seed production
Tecluticiens laboratoire            25000               1    1    1    1    1             5              5-6                  I           Seed laboratory
aemencier                                                                                                                              control
Technicien conditionnement          20000               1    1    1    1    1             5              5-6                  I           Technician seed
conditioning
Seoaine/week
Il. Formation au Siege BNS
Cestionnaira                  4       1200              -    5    5   10   10            30               2                 5-10          Management
Cadre de l'administration   4        1200              -    5    5   10   10             30               2                 5-10          Administration
Tsc-ieiiens semenciers       4       1200              -   10   10   10   10            40               2                 5-10          Seed production
Hechaniciene                  3      1500              -    -   10   10   10             30               4                 5-10          Plant maintenance
Animateur commercialisation 4        1500               -   10   10   10   10            40               4                 5-10          Marketing
111. Formation au Centre Regional (MPOV)
Techniciens semenciers        4      1000              -   10   10   10   20             50               3                10-20          Seed production
Techniciens laboratoire       4      1000              -   10   10   10   20             50               3                10-20          Semd laboratory
control
Mechaniciens                  4       1000              -   10   10   10   20            50               3                10-20          Planlt maintenance
Vulgarisation                 4      1000              -   10   10   10   20             50               3                10-20          Seed extension work
IV.  Formction Itinerante                                                                                   Jours/days
Techniciens semencieru        8       400              3    6   12   12   12             45              3-4                 2-3          Seed production
Techniciens laboratoire       8       400              2    4    8    8    8             30              3-4                 2-3          Laboratory control
Mechaniciens                  a       400               3    6   12   12   12            45              3-4                  2-3         Plant maintenance
Comptables                    8       400              3    6   12   12   12             45              3-4                 2-3          Accounting
V.   Preparation Emploi du Temps
Preparation initiale          1     80000              0.5  0.5  -    -    -              -               -
mine à jour                   2     30000               -    -    I    -    1             -               --
VI.  Recyclage         ,
Gestionnaire                  2       600               -    -    -   15   15            30               1                  10-20        Management
Cadres administratif*         2       600              -    -    -   15   15             30               1                 10-20         Adainistration
Techniciens senenciers        2       600               -    -    -   15   15            30               1                  10-20        Seed production
Techniciens laboratoire       2       600              -    -    -   15   15             30               1                  10-20        Laboratory controi
mechanicienc                  2       600               -    -    -   15   15            30               1                  10-20        Plant maintenance
Vulgarisation                 2       600              -    -    -   IS   15             30               1                  10-20        Extension/monitoring ,
Total Personnes Forages                                     16   17  129  229  279           740                                         Total Persons Trained
1/  Y compris: voyages, per dien, coûta professeurs, materiel educatif.             l  Includes travel, lodging, coctsnof instructors and teaching materials.



ZAIRE
SEEDS PROJECT
Are Plenits for ControUed Seed Product.io, W  Sud Fam  nlih           O.tgrawm. Yom  1-5
(Ha)
Year                       Year 2                      Yer 3                       Year 4                     Y«W 5
Soed FaFarii Faim  Cjtgrrs  Total    Fam                                                          alur 8  Total  im  Qigrmrs Tot  Fam  Outgr IreTtal    Fm    At s   Tobal
Ksulu Ham
MIe                    m30      -         30       30        -        30       18       -         28       33      -         33       3S       -        -38
Soybem                  5       -          5       12        -        12       il      -          il       il      -         il       12       -         12
Gronudxte              10       -         10       20        -        2D       40       -         40      60       -         60       80       -         80
blM                     2       -          2        5        -         5       Io      -          10      25       -         25       40       -         40
Cnet                    2       -          2        1        -         1       1       -           l        1      -          1        1       -          1
Tbo    AU  el          49       -         49       68        -        68       90       -         90      120      -         120     171       -        171
1bIze                    3      -          3       10        -        10       15       -         15       19       5        24      .68      10         78
SobIea                  I       -          1        1        -         1        2      -          2        2       -          2        5       -          5
Qu nuta                  5      -          5        8        -         8       13       -         13       20      5         25       33       5         V
bae                     2       -          2        2        -         2        4      -          4        4       -          4        4       -          4
Rica                    -       -          -        1        -         I        2       2          4        2      4          6        4       4          8
cassava                 4                  4        4        -         4        4       -          4       4       -          4        4       -          4    ce
Total ALI o.            15      -         15       26        -        26       40       2         42       51     14         65      118      19        137
i'dze                  30       -         3D       50       40        91       80      80        160      100    140        240      150    200         350
9%ybea                  2       -          2        5        -         3        7      -          7        10      5         15       14      10         24
G0onhata                10      -          10      20        -        20       28       5         33       28       5        33       55       5         60
nom                     2       -          2        5        -         5        7       5         12      10      10         D        14      20         34
Uic.                     2      -          2        4        2         6        6       4         10       8       6          14       8       8         16
Cnau                    4       4          8        4        6       .10        4       8         12       4       8          1:       4       a         12
TotalA11  oçs          50       4         54       88       48       136      132    102         234      160       174     334      245    251         496
NELM                   10       -         10       20        -        20       20       -          -       40      40        80       60      60        120
Riae                     _      _          _        -        _       ,     _    _       _          _        _       _          _        _      _-
0xmuùijta               -       -          -        -        -         -        5       -          5        5      -          5       10       -         10
Sbu                     -       -          -        -        -         -        -      -          -        10      -         10       40       -         40
Be                      -       -          -        -        -         -        4       -          4       6       -          6       12       -         12
C9H   -  -        -        -        -         -        -       2          2        -       4          4       -       4          4
TOta1 AU1 o .           10                10       20        -        20       29       2         il       61     44        105      122      64        186
H sit-Zre
MLus                    10      -         10       20        -        20       40      10         50      80       20       100       80      3D        110
RNe                     10      -         10       20        -        20       30      10         4e      40      10         50       40      10         50
Greunuta                10      -          10      10        -        10       20       -         20       20      -         2D       40       -         40
Cas"                     I      -          I        I        -         I        2       2          4        3      4          7        4       4
Total /AU1n   .         31      -         31       31        -        50        2      22        104      143      34       177      164      44        2      |



SEEDS PROJECT
V.lu  of Prduétim, by Sud Fan. imluidsm qgEmrm Yéns 1-5
Yenr 1                 Year 2                  Yeu 3                  Year 4                  Yeu 5
See FarQp          Fam  (itgroer Total   Fam  Outgra4e  Ttl   Fui O           Jtromu Total   Fan   0tpemm  Total   Fam   *f_oemm  Fat
lSdu Fspg
1b1.u               48.0    -       48.0   54.0    -        54.0   56.0   -        56.0   75.9    -        75.9   95.0   -        95.0
Soybemm              6.0    -        6.0   15.6    -        15.6   15.4    -       15.4   16.5    -        16.5   18.0   -         16.5
Gowùmts             12.0    -       12.0   26.0    -        26.0   56.0   -        56.0   90.0   -         90.0  120.0   -        90.0
Bes.                 1.0    -        1.0    3.0    -         3.0    8.0    -        8.0   24.0    -        24.0   32.0    -       24.0
c u                 20.0    -     20.0   20.0    -        20.0   20.0   -        20.0   20.0    -        20.0   20.0   -        20.0
Tatal Ail aoçu      87.0    -       87.0  11 1.6    -      118.6  155.4    -      155.4  226.4    -       226.4  285.0    -       285.0
- ize                4.8    -        4.8   18.0    -        18.0   30.0    -       30.0   43.7  11.5       55.2   52.5  25.0    7n.5
S&ibenu              1.2    -        1.2    1.3    -         1.3    2.8    -        2.8    3.0    -         3.0    7.5    -        7.5*
Goe,ta               6.0    -        6.0   10.4    -        10.4   18.2    -       18.2   30.0   7.5       37.5   49.5   8.0       57.5
Dian                 1.0    -        1.0    1.2    -        1.2    3.2    -         3.2    3.2    -         3.2    3.2    -        3.2
Rice                 -     -         -      1.2     -        1.2    2.8   2.8       5.6    3.0   6.0        9.0    6.0   6.0       12.0   e
cmma                80.0  80.0    160.0   80.0  160.0   240.0   80.0  200.0    280.0   80.0  20.0    280.0   80.0  200.0    280.0
otal Ail lea"       93.3  80.0    173.0  112.1  160.0   272.1  137.0  202.8    339.8  162.9  225.0    387.9  198.7  239.0    437.7
ime                 48.0    -       48.0   90.0   72.0   162.0  160.0  160.0    320.0  230.0  322.0    552.0  375.0  500.0    875.0
Soybe»               2.4    -        2.4    6.5    -        6.5    9.8    -         9.8   15.0   7.0       22.0   21.0  15.0       36.0
Counkaata           12.0    -       12.0   26.0     -       26.0   39.2   7.0      46.2   42.0   7.0       49.0   82.5   8.0       90.5
Bea"                 1.0    -        1.0    3.0    -        3.0    5.6   4.0        9.6    8.0   8.0       16.0   11.2  16.0      27.2
Rice                 2.0    -        2.0    4.8    2.4      7.2    8.4   5.6       14.0   12.0   9.0       21.0   12.0  12.0       24.0
Caava               80.0  80.0    160.0   80.0  120.0   200.0   80.0  160.0    240.0   80.0  160.0    240.0   80.0  160.0    240.0
Total Ai1l oe      145.4  80.0    225.4  210.3  194.4   404.7  303.0  336.6    639.6  387.0  513.0    900.0  581.7  711.0  1,292.7
Hblze               16.0    -       16.0   36.0     -       36.0   40.0  40.0      80.0   92.0  92.0    184.0  150.0  150.0    300.0
Sbybs                   -       -        -      -           -       -      -        -      15.0    -       15.0   30.0    -       30.0
Orounhata            -      -        -      -       -       -       7.0    -        7.0    7.5    -         7.5   15.0    -        15.0
BeaU                 -     -         -      -       -       -       3.2    -        3.2    4.8    -         4.8    9.6    -        9.6
Cassava              -     -         -      -       -       -      40.0    -       40.0   80.0    -        80.0   80.0    -       80.0
Total AU. Crops     16.0    -       16.0   36.0     -       36.0   90.2  40.0    130.2  199.3  92.0    291.3  284.6  150.0    434.6
Hajt-Zaire                                                                                                                                  -
Fb1æe               16.0    -       16.0   36.0    -        36.0   80.0  20.0    100.0  184.0  46.0    230.0  200.0  75.0    275.0
GFoundnuts          12.0    -       12.0   13.0    -        13.0   28.0    -       28.0   30.0    -        30.0   60.0    -       60.0
Rie                 10.0   -        10.0   24.0    -        24.0   42.0  14.0      56.0   60.0  15.0       75.0   60.0  15.0      75.0   _
Csseava             20.0    -       20.0   20.0    -        20.0   40.0  40.0      80.0   60.0  80.0    140.0   80.0  80.0    160.0   o
Total Ail CIOps     58.0    -       58.0   93.0    -        93.0  190.0  74.0    264.0  334.0  141.0    475.0  400.0  170.0    570.0



ZAIRE
Projet d'assistance au Plan Semencier National/Seeds Project
EFtlnmted Yield levls (tons/Ha)
Renoeuats Isat1ms (taines/Ha)
Caseava         IkirM         Fice        Grouwdnuts     Den            Soybean
Manioc          Mau           Riz         Arwi.de        Harlots        Soja
1.  Varlety                   various anid    Y-a,            6          G17            Various        S17         1. Variété
02864           Saloeo
2.  Estintated Potentil       20-25           6-8           1-3         2-3            1.5-1.8        1.5-2       2.  Rebndemnt potentiel
3. Prodoxt                     cutfes          gain          paddyl/    urhellled       gainl/         grainl/    3.  Produit
(bouttres)                                en coqeq
fresh tubers a
(tubercules)
4. Yieds:                                                                                                          4. ReYbemte:.
a.  fare lvel               6-10           0.8-1         0.7-1       0.5-0.8        0.4-0.6        0.4-0.6         a) niveau d'griculteur,
sith local ueeds                                                                                                   amenx  locales
b. fain level              10-15           1.2-2.6       1-1.5       0.8-1.5        0.8-1.2        0.8-1.-         b) niveau d'Iriailteu
idth controlled ms.I                                                                                              avec , os
c.  soeda at oeedfanm                                                                                              c) sexoes oentrffles à
for year:                                                                                                         la fenrs saxmcièos
pour anne 
1                       25 ton         1.6           1.-         1,2            0.5            1.2                  1
2                       45,000m        1.8           1.2         1.3            0.6            1.3                  2
3                       meter          2.-           1.4         1.4            0.8            1.4                  3
4                       cuttirgs       2.3           1.5         1.5            0.8            1.5                  4
5                       (boutOres)     2.5           1,5         1.5            0.8            1.5                  5
1/  Farmdry  usé      àJi   la ferme



-63-                            TABLE 12
ZAIRE
Seeds Project
Estimated Cost of Production and Prices by Seed Farm and by Crop
Average Cost of                     Pricesb/
Productiona/ (Year 5)        Years 1-3   Year 4  Year 5
(S/Ton)                        ($/Ton)
Kwilu Ngo'go
Mb'ze                      620                  620        682      744
Soybeans                   711                  711       782       853
Groundnuts                 629                  629       692       755
Beans                      926                  926     1,069    1,111
Cassava                    520                  520       546       624
Pindi
Maize                      571                  571       628       685
Soybeans                   649                  649       714       779
Groundnuts                 580                  580       638       696
Beans                      860                  860       946    1,032
Rice                       589                  589       648       707
Cassava                    476                  476       524       571
MPoY
Maize                      493                  493       542       592
Soybeans                   577                 577        635       692
Groundnuts                 502                 502        552       602
Beans                      782                  782       860       938
Rice                       511                 511        562       613
Cassava                    398                  398       438       478
Shaba
Maize                      658                  658       724       790
Soybeans                   856                 856        942    1,027
Groundnuts                 669                 669        736       803
Beans                      947                  947     1,042    1,136
Cassava                    505                 505        555       606
Haut-Zaire
Maize                      451                  451       496       541
Groundnuts                 459                 459        505       551
Rice                       467                 467        514       560
Cassava                    356                 356        392       427
a/  Based on base costs.  Includes amortization of investment costs and
recurrent costs for year 5.
bf  Equal to average cost of production (AC) for year 1-3, 110% of AC for
year 4 and 120% for year 5. In calculating revenues above prices have
been raised by 7% to cover estimated physical contingency costs.



-64-
Tabla 13
ZAZU
Séadu Proiset
Ivilu Ugougo Séod Faro: Cash Flou Statae_t (in U.S. $W0)
snd Rate of Rsturu Avaly.±s
I      2      3       4      S      4       7              9     le      il     12     là      14     is     id      17     Il            e2
ZOULO      32.50  71.90 Q2.10 140.3  27-.   2fe.JO 32.0  441.40 464.10 0 40 10.1  4%.51 4M.50 410.50 40e40  490.5  400.50 410.10 4.10 410.s
IMML  261.0a 1.40 19.1  131-40   4.-1  2.60 31.60 57.40  402.40 310.20 217.50 2708.0 333.60 347.60 460.06 349.40 310.20 267.0 270.00  33340
a        -220.10  -10.40 -.77.0   90  53e3   2170  63.40 -126.00  12     170. 211 .90  2R.70 146.1t  132.90  20.56  131.10 170.10 21.00 201.70 146.10
PEU    VA0M  CF MET STE        AT à  OMMr MIE W 13.
*-1  uVIel         112Va               O 2 e r   11   1 W  0IZ 2  VMI DM  501 LAI  TEELU 2  Li Ui 3 r14
C.1               43.1      223.2      403.4      "3.7    -137.0    -317.1        -7.1       -171.1      -359.?    -526.2
UP in1          -13a.7       47.4      227.6      767.1    -312.       -4m2.    -1.033.3      -346.?    -135.7    -702.0
UP 20           -3o.5      -13.4        511.7       2.1    -4006       -607   -1.20t.l        -322.7    -711.5    -U77.E
o 50            -01.1      -55.       -4.7         64.7  -1016.0   -1.116.2   -1.736.5   -1o.0102   -1.230.1   -l9U05.2
mu 10l           219.1      3f.        579-2    1.111.5      31.1      -141.3    -6.7           4.7    -194.1       -31.4
1 20        314.7      574.1      755.0   1295.3        214.6       34.5     -50.1       10.5        -0.3    -174.6
051          M2.2    1.102.3    1,22.4    12.8           M42.0      561.9       2.6       707.9      511.2      352.S
La IYEIR             -          -          -          -          -          -          -        38.0     -150.8    -117.1
ULd 2lWS             -.         -          -          -          -          -          -          -        33.5    -132.0
I.ii3YEBU            -          -          -          - -  -                                                         » -  -  29.5
MOII       960F OF IEIU  OF WIET huSI
0.1     U 1in      11 20      U501  D MI 102   UN 21           1      LM   Vn LAS 2 sW   LUS 3 VIES
C.1             14.072     20.160     24.SS4     37.1        9.720      0.712        NE       9.74       6.93       5.403
oP 102           9.33S     14U2      19.703     32.177      2.458     -7.95         ME       5.004      4.147      3.210
20              3.752      .US       14.u72     27.227     -4.70    -70.214        ME        2.206      1.5        1.112
-  -       -          -          -    -24.171               -                -
uP n10         -70.214     -7.0        0.792     14.872        OII E     M            IE     -.m        -5.40      -4.070
-24.471         -          -          -          -                      -.-
ItS        20.713     2s.973     30.0m      44.552      14.872     7.63         ME       13-612      9.m        7.810
21             27.227     32.4       37148 9     2.705     21.396     14.172       ME       1e.01      13.332     10.499
m1  502         s7.m       65.713     73.914    100.787    4na2        41.91I     14.72      36.446     26.82      21.24S
L   I                -ERR       -          - _                                                14J.72     I.574      6.M37
Lii 2 Fm                        --                    --                                                 14.972     11.574
Li 3 lWES                       _ -        -          -          -                                              14.072 X'74
IlMfhl ,Ralnes d~     et1w  .1  5atrBv
LAI                   1431



s-6
ZAIRI                                               Table 14
Seeds Proimct
Pindi Sond Faru: Ca.h Flov Stateent (in U.S. $000)
and Rate of Ratura An alyuia
1      2      3       4      5       à      7       8      9      10      il     12      13     14     15    1l       17      18      19     20
DLlES    43.20 113.7  160.U  286.10 2M.70  331-30 44.40    1.20 0.40   M.50  MAI 0.50  0050  0.50  M580  M-s    co  uMaW s00.5  00.0
OUIFL    156.10  071.70 374.40 411.60 15.00 277.1  323.m0  403.00 553,70 444.0  396.10 33540 410.10 412.U0  47.-00   5.70 414.00 396.10  35.0  443.10
*e       -mase2  -Mo.1-213.0 -234.      13.705 as   zzî.e   da.2s  M.»  236.5  34.40 34.70 29. 7  267.70  23 .   174.W  2.3  34.40  344.10 236.»
PIT  «M1    OF ET STMIE  AT à DIIMEUTW  0F 13.51
Id      U0r1 e   UZ! 20Z      Ur 505    am   1     D120  2 am I 2 e2 am   s L iI   L2 YES Li 3 TEES
C.l               -6.7      237.        482.3    1.216.2     -231.3     -4S-.8   -1.229.4      -297.6     -3.9    -77t.7
IF 102          -251-.       -7.3       237.2      71.0      -406.5    -741.1   -1,474.1       -S42.8     -7t.2   -1M5.0
te 2m            47.2    -252.6         -0.0       725.7     -741.0      -M6.    -1.720.1      -7M11t   -1.044.4   -1.270.2
It 5m         -1.232.?      400.3    -743.0        -10.0   -19477.5   -1.722.1   -2.455.8   -1.523.0   -1e700.2   -2.006.0
m0111 10Z        238.6      403.2       M.7    1.461.5         -6.0    -250.6       -114.3      -52.3     -30.7      -334.5
am0 20Z          4S3.8       72S.4      073.0   1I76.7        230.2       -5.3      -73.1       302.0      -63.4     -23.2
m0011 50M       1.210.6    1.464.1    19700.7    2 442.5       75.0      730.4       -3.3       920.7      672.3      446.3
La i VER             -          -          -           -          -          -          -        -5.0     -2U .2     -401.0
LAI 2 TE             -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -       -5.2     -23i.t
LAI 3ITE             -          -          --- -                                                                       -4.6
IIMIL RATM  OF KEMUI IF MET ITEM
3.1     U FOZ      U 202      (50 UP    IEZ DM  01e   UR 2   0 0I 502 LAS 1       LI LA 2 TES   W  3 TEES
col             13.376      17.736     21.824     33.535      S.513      2.650       NIIE       9.239      7.045      5.647
(F IOZ           8.t85      13.376     17.354     20-242      3.S33     -3.011       NIE        6.136      4.611      3.678
-  m0            4.770        .374     13.376     23.10M     -1.033    -:0.235        N         3.164      2.340      1.862
IF St         -10.235      -2.459      2.650     13.376       NIE       IDI/E       MOUE     -5.328     -3.J45     -2..08
DN  10!        1.201      22.709      27.065     40.141     13.376      7. 5         NIOIE    12.720      9.705      7.w09
MW 20!          23.0       29.682      33.535     43.8tO     19.779     13.376    -94.397      16.566     12.670     10.220
-20.679                 
n  sm           54.547     64.511      76.071    130.744     45.657     37.469      13.376     33.473     24.092     20.040
LU  1 T              -          -           -          -          -          -           -     13376       9.289      7.45
LUO 2 YEES           -          -          -           -          -          -          -           -     13.376      9.29
LAS 3 TEES           -          -           _          _          _          _           _          _          -      13.376
Intenal Rats et of Rurn o e#et Streas
IIB                   13.311



-66-
ZAIRE                                                 Table 15
Seade Froject
n    Seed Far!: Cash Flo, Staet            nt (in U.S. $000)
and Rate of Returu Analysis
1      2       3      4       5       6      7       a             10      11     17      13     14      15      16     17    lU        19     20
IWLUl      49.50 146.10  MM   410.   654.» M     .40  0.0   15.90  M.3   m.70   o.70  110.70    0 "8.730  M.79  m.n7   m                o  1.7M    1.70  M.70
IflRUl   2M*70  M.96   I.10 61U.10  M40  417.10  M.10  341 711.40   9.40  64.00  6.4   D7.10 6.10 676.40 722.4i  M."  44.40 56.40 537.10
Jla      -1.         50 -77.4   -31.3  19.   3M.30  352.40 222.:»  245.90 20.30   0.70  432.10 461.0  3Mf  322.30 276.20  1M.0  350.70  M.1   461.60
PENT WIB W KT fMS AT à 6NUU  MW IF 13.%2
0.      U 1140     WP 20E      OP sm    MUl IK0    M     M     MM1M501     1  WM LAO 2 WMS UI 33 ETM
C.1              344.3       753.7    19163.0    2,391.2       -5.1       -474.5   -1702.6     -142.7      -i71.7     -94.6
oP 11             -30.7      370.7      7811    29016.2       -40.1       -0       -7r77.6      -517.6      -M.6   -19324.6
op 2ME            446          3.7      413.1    1,641.3      -11.0  -1,724.    -2,437.5        426    -1r32116   -1,6l19
op 511         -1,0.5*  -112l.1       -711.7       5144   -1,*39-    -2,349.2   -3,577.4   -2,017.4   -2t446.4   -7,024.4
M 1le             711.2    1.1210.    1M50.       2.766.1      30»9.       -1.5   -1.327.7       232.3    -1167        -54.7
M  22           1,094.2    1.503.6    1.112t.    3141.1       604.8       275.4     -9.7        607.3       170.2     -19.7
M1E 501         29219.0    2'611.4    3,037.0    4,265.?    1d11.7    1,400.3         17.       1.732.1    1,W.1        925.1
LU  I TEM            -           -          -           -          -          -           -      303.3      -127.7     -W03.7
LUl  2  0                        -          -           -          -                      -          -       267.2     -110.7
LAS 3 TMES           -           -          -           -          -          -           -          -           -      235.5
f01 4 MIDS OF RETe IIF KT fIEls
1.1     IP I0      1101M       1  0      PM 11101    M   M 11111201   41111 I 01 REIIYLU   7      LEMS     3 1W5
C.o             18.330      23.Ao      28.7M2      43.5m4     12.530      5.m          MW        12.M40      U.         6.90
F 1a             13.07      10.330     23.l7       36.797      7.03       -0.60        MWF       0.47        6.31       4.1
P 2M             8.364      13.546     18.330      31.207      1.542     -8.738        ME        5.14R       3.71U      2.R70
W 5UE            -0.730     -0.03       5.727      10.33     -33.P          ME         MW.    -4.21         -2.n10     -.-m
-m   lez        24.23       29.2       35.320      5l11:.5    U330         1.03     -69.624     15.176      11.022      9.32z
M  2             31.207     37.3m5     43.54       62-768     24.135      18.330    -19.749     20.42       15,119     1. 5
lm  mi          49.615      11.M6      94.663    147.491      58.767     40.45       l1.33      39.1        29.99      22.721
US I lm                          -                -          -           -          -           11ON.       12.0        0.975
LAO 2 WiE            -           -          -           -          -          -                      -      18.330     12.05
LAS 3  RE            -           -          -          -           -          -           -          -           -     19.33
loterl bts  of btem or met Strs
M                     I_      _ _



ZAIRE                                                 Table 16
Soeds Project
Shaba SBed Faru, Cash Flow StatOmant (in U.S. $000)
and Rate of Raturn Ana=lysi
t      2       3       4      I       4       7       a       O     le      il      12      13      14     il      16      17     le      IV      20
lIUS        4.00   11.00   5.0  111.10  30.30  340.30  440.00 50.40  W."0    .30  6.30    2.30 6M.30              .U 41.30  42.30    2.30  632.30   32.10  63.30
.lOlF      31.40  244.J0  103.30 376.30 117.7   2.7  332.70    0.30  5OU.0  N2.4E  3D.40  340.0   M.70  413.70 3.30  10.60  30240  3M.40  34.70  359.70
a         -2640 -22&.0 -441.40 -224.80  -25.40  111.0  117.20  -19.0   27.30  24?.M  237.0  213.40  27.60 210.60  29000   2.70  24.0  237-.0  20.40  272.60
MM    .  OtF KT orM  4à I              M    IE VF   13.9
3.1  UIFIEZ   OP M    W0M  MUIOZ   M2M   M  M LU  IME U  2 lE                                      ! ULA 3 EW
C.1              -112.0       102.?      317.8       M2.6      -327.0      - .?   -1,6.6          -37.7       -M2.        -701.3
op l0           -33.2       -23.2        01.7       736.1      -3.1       -76U60    -1,412.8      -o3u       -10.0   -1,017.1
p 20M            -514.3      -349.4     -134.4       510.3     -770.2      -4.1   -1m..            810.0   -14.    -1e243.4
o  M           -1.242.7   -I,027.7      412.8       -168.0   -1.457.6   -l.62.1   -2,317.3   -140.3   -1,723.5   -I,2M.0
M11111            114.1      329.0       541,      1F10.7      -100.0      -311.7      -6.1       -141.3      -36.0       -M.2
NU  202           340.2      I1          770.1    1.414.8        121.3      -0.6       -734.4       04.6      -140.6      -330.1
MU  ME          1.010.6    1,233.5   1U44B.5    29005.2          003.7        .B        -1.0       76 e        37.7        330.3
LA I lE              -          -           -           -          -           -           -       -00.7     -323.9      -97.4
LUB 21E               -           -          -           -          -           -           -           -       B-07      -2B5.4
LUl 3 lE              -          -           -           -          -           -           -          -           -       -76.6
UWmm  IUlES W mIM OF ET SREM
1.1    r lez    F 202   11M    O         MU  101MM20   M U    LU1 TELU 2 IELUB 3 TM
C.1              11.313     13.403      10.120      29.070      6.41         .0          lmn        7.1        6.1         4.8
oP lEZ            7.103      11.313     15.040      24.723      2.07       -4.14          M         4.-B4      3.702       2.06
W  212            3.003       7.47B     11.313      20.3        -2.470    -11.437       MOUE        2.000      1.12        1.107
op M12          -11.437      -4.0B       0.930      11.313    -31.30         M           ME       -6.177      -4.400      -3.41
M  lez           1w          1U.92n     2..723      34.120     11.313       6.075        ME        11.2         .4         6.m
MM 2M            20.03      21.004      20.070      40.12       16U.3U3    11.313    -1.0          140 u.m     1.9 7       0.3n
M   l            43.735      4W.306     34.0        n.171       30.01      32.133      11.313      30.100     23.200      1s34
LA I n                -          -           -           -          -           -           -      11.313      7.1         6.071
LU 2 1E               -          -           -           -          -           -           -          -      11.3U        7.00
tL   3 -              -          -           -           -          -           -           -          -                  11.313
Interna  RItn at rat  ao fet SUam
*               ~~~~~11.311



-68-
ZAIE                                                   Tab bl  17
S«dà Proj ct
laut Zairo Soed Far.: Casb Flov Statment (in U.S. $000)
and Rate of Return Aalysie
1      2       3      4       I      à       7       a       9     le      Il      12     13      U4     1s      la      il     l       28     2
013810     10.6  200.0   3.0   33.20 3u.    24.30 284.3  n31e.  4273   4n.30  37n.30 3 30 »316    37.   371.   47U.   471-»  3n3.0 m31                      1
IJLU        t.  O 7.10  MMte  2».10  W51   377.30 360.6   n.2e  447*0e 4ue10 406.   4U.10  40610  416.10 46.10  406.10  40610  406lO  41l.  40610
a         -44.0 -44 .     -e- .  -11.0U  -3.le  131.00  66.30  01.M   Z         14.   113.   114.O 128.0 1e 7.0  114.0   62.00  14.0  113.10  114.00  154.0
N m  vI f    1( SIIVIM  AT à Uml     un1 f ILS
1.1   U        la  LP 203   U 1 M   s          le s 10 0i2n 0L a0      I            L a« 2ff1L413 lm
C.1             -140.7        37V.      2Z4.3       702.      -3.2        -21.7   -1.00.2        -30.1      -166.0      -73.2
W  lot           -31.l      -163.6       22.8       M4        -3.6        -72.1   -1,32.!    -17.           -767.1     -M.5
IF 20            -.4        -364.8     -170.4         1.1     -737.8      -2.4    -143.8         -m.1       -1.7   -1.840.9
IF  0          -110.1       -6.0       -702.5      -223.0   -1#142.0   -l1 .S    -2oM.01    -1.377.4   -1.572.   -1.741.0
III l2.7                     238.2      42.7          2.1     -1D.0       -0.3       -0.0        -16.2      -34.6    -13.8
-  2              254.0      40.1        2.0    1.186.1         67.1      -118.0     -4704         32.2     -163.2      -1.4
M ME               .t      1@444.6    1.23I.1    1.780.6       67.6        405.1      -74.3       636.       440.        20.7
LU I 1                -          -          -           -          -           -          -      -131.0     -326.1      -4.6
LA 2                                                             - -  -  -  -  -          -           -     -11.4       -207.6
L  3   E         _           _          _          _           _          _           _          _                      -101.7
:UU ITUO IF KIMlll OF OEI S
0.1     uP 10z    1U 20!        P ue01   nUE 10!      MM 2 0 1MM! LUI WMLA 2 TWB LU 3  IE
C-1               0.127     14.740     20.18       36.427     -0e3       -17.44        kE         4.673      3.230      2.48
F l0              .41        8.127    11M         28-.3     -12.U4    -7.W7           ME         0.2s7      0.174      0.131
20              -9.407      1.234      8.1        23.351    -43.2N         unE        l         -4.069     -2.11      -2.00
op I               MEE    -s13-0       -17.D44      1.127        MME                   lm       -16-.      -I032Z   -7.574
1 1a             11.437     21.0       27.000      44.97       1.27       -1.643         E         .307      6.3u       1.02
2M !        23.31      29.81       36.427     55.064      16.272      B.W27       NIE                   10.18       7.M
10          62.d09     73.102      05.843    18.777      11.90       41.W0        0.127     35.30      24.0        18.318
LU  I 1163 nu-                              -           -          -           -          -       8.127      4.673      3.230
U  21E                                                                                               -       8.127      4.673
LU 3                  -          -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -        .127
Im«w  U.t.. e at. iof Mt SUm
a                      8-13I



t~ ~'li i}  1h [3 jt   t                                  s8uS
Ut t   i lia 82                                                         dlFgb688        



-70- 70e 19
ZII
SEEDS PROJECT
Roturn to P Fanor' Ply laber
(ice Fam !xbl, [Arta: 1 ha])
WIth lccl Seeds               Vco  tzoUa Sds Prd   atl/
Ito                  PrlOEd at 5.5 ZaB   2DZke2/   2       ËZ7        1       
Lab  days                   137                160           160        175       16
SeedIMng rate (1/ha)         60                 60            60         80        60
yLad (kg/ha)                700               1,200         1,20D     1,600       975
Pro1uoer pr1e (Z/kg)          5.5                5.5           5.5        5.5       5.5
Produxtim 0st (Z)5/         575               1,5           1,820     2,000     1,520
(rs  ln  (Z)              3,850              6,600         6,600      8,800     5,360
met iic.e (Z)             3,275              5,080         4,780      6,800     3,840
Ine to fm- ly
labor (Z/anday)              24                 32            30         39        24
Tqxwoeiet ratio of
i' to fu lybo                1.00                1.33          1.25   163 25       10
l/ Modeln n buoh fallow wito  usEe of fert«lizers.
2/ Averag seed prie ln yenr 1 establiated at about 15 Z/kg.
3/ If yld are f1essd by better hmbmdry tec,iques, in partilar an lnceaed plant
p lation, return to faimers ie  lises                  . If produy r prices drap lm
3 Z/lIn &I  t periodm, the sal3  prioe of 20 Z/  for eatrolied seeds mtad gle equi
cot returns to faly labor but wul ro  oastitte en ilogive to by seeis ai1   the
y1elds e  >u3dbe aboit 1,E0 1g/lu. At tbst level, tbe incresse ln ren to faiy
imld be about 25L
4/ At a yield of 975 1g/a the return to f.Wly labewr.th ontroled aed lail soeMs is tbe
a.
51 laterlales Jwi  boe and tool3 at a cmmt of 20ZAg au! 8(flb respectivly.
Note 1:  n see ams re is pl          after forest cesring, vith rlce yedid up tO
1,OOD kg/. ilîe le  retoen to fLly labor voed ot ctge g rh, ln Mpite of a
lomr beeding rate, doe to «a lr (3D I)  ded for forent cleiMg, p-aiti,
etr.
Soe algo mot 3 of -e  u5u1.



- 71-
TAIE                      ~~~~~~b1  Zl
- PLoloe
(." 1i wl à  1fl
Vith 1oIS.b WiI                         od Semi Prls Ac 
lto             klo~~~pie  et 7                        &&F 2S-- 5 3 1      5?
Taor d.y                   143                 160           160       180       160
ssid,'tut.O     .)          35                  25            25        25        25
YUld (<b/A)                90D               1,300         1,30D     2,000      1,060
PMkIaoe Prim (Z/lu}          7                   7             7         7         7
Proatiam cmt               525               1,005         1,255     3,170     1,005
(afl 1nr_ (<Z/h           6.3CO              9,100         9,100    14.000     7,405
Ne 1n  (Z/tu)             5.775              8,095         7,U45    10.130     6.00
Imm te f tly labor
(Z' i day)                  4                   51            49        60        40
Tqroeit Mt'O Cie
1nwm to fa.lyléo             100                 1.3           1.20      1.50      1.00
F1 Fi 
=,lld mmuit
Immto faudly lébr
(Z/u day)                   <6                  51           49         60         n"6
lqromntra                  1.00               1.11          1.07      1.30       n
il m_rI0 pc        e p n l r 1 u«dtS t    dia 25 ZAk.
2/  idai m ddi wi   of fntlior: 50 lg e 20 Z/A%. putkld  25 Z, hi. qqVy .qui
20 Zn M caotructSfioei, 1l 250 Z.
3/ At a yled of 1.060  /hau tu rubun t» fudly Ibiodth antrol   i a od cl mi te du
4</ Ot1w coe lw niais wua fwotlIa  am: bq_ <20 Zbe)  i tool. (<D Z/bu).
5/ Fo     esl buy f roe ralgtâo te  FI or 1Q2 d  waraeld WUm min. ddh 'cdd
gLv y.leda et abat 1.10D 1/tu. f %udd My fur  *  sad  a ploe o *oet 10 Z/ll.
In duc cm tbe pft ftm wxrolid  mib ua nuu  be axoe I bettot Imam*ty ad the
ue  of fertIkar.
Note 1: Du autloe fur sau gloe la bt 90 Z/lu for du rmp.Uw .oem te  faly
Idbw to be qml.  .oes te, d     fu L     mi%    &all  ua         In  pnoel due
vield a
tu iros  rawn tO fLay li w tnoea by e Imm 25. In t-ca duh
_u         ud iEdo uU  be *m   30 Z/g.
?ae 2: If f mnu g-I     thie leur  t, k       tLprs du proe cmo t* 4 ZAtC. a  11dd
l       _      x     _ du  mu  wloe mm be 25 Z/kg, audi te the  ojotttd  sla. g .
Ibte 3: The Snc   nma tDa Lai7 Ibor la o        £r1ly diosa du  ra    cmat c blIal
ié. éoe  14 Z/k.



t,            w            
§^ lj  e  [zi  |[l  te  gxtx1[ f !    %I
I  S   S   S       X}i1
§~~~m                             1  fte62   88|;
I!ir§ tl tks                                       l.1
W    |^    8     œ               88>        i.:
[       le 0  9              s.#



*73-                                   Table 22
ZAIE
Seeds Project
RetUm to       SW m FaLY labor
(SoyB    Farm Hdel, [Area: 1 ha])
W7ith Local Seedr,              With Cantrofle  Seeds Prioed at
_ta.                   PriCed at 8 Z/kg         25 Z/kg1/    3            25 Z/k3  25 Z/k'4!
LabordaYs                     168                  185            185         219        185
Seedig ratio (kg/ha)           0                    35             35          35         35
Yield (kg/ha)                .500                  800            800       1,000        630
PrOdxuce price (Zfkg           8                     8              8          8          8
Praducticm Cauts (Z)5/        52D                1,155          1,505      2,400       1,155
GrasS income                4,000                6,40D         6,400       8,000      5,040
Net income                  3,480                5,245          4,895      5,600      3,480
Incaoe to family labor
(Z/un day)                    21                   28             26          27         21
IUprovement ratio of
incone to fanily Labor          1.00                 1.33           1.24       1.29       1.00
V/ Averae seed priOe in year 1 esttmated at about 25 Z/kg.
2/ TIe pri e Of 35 Z/kg is asUmed to be tht xi:nmn nmrket prdoe beOee: In tbe farner's
pereption the hIcrease of finome to family labor *huld be about 25%.
3/ Model with better lmsbsndry and fertilizer use (2,000 Z), diæaese aitol (50 Z for
Lcalms), equipmet hie  (20 Z). Suri  aeaures appear to te justifiei If yild ineases
can be obtained to about 1,000 kg/ha.
4/ At a yIeld of 630 kg/ha, the returne to fuly labor iith cantrollel or oema        seed ls the
sao"e.
5/ For nDdels withwt ferilir mterials inludie begs (20 Z/bag) and tools 80 Z/ha.
See also note 3 cf miize  md&l.



-74-                                 Table 23
ZAIRE
Seeds Project
Project Cash Flowa/
(US$ '000)
Outflows                          1986        1987     1988        1989       1990
A.  Seed Farms:
Kwilu Ngongo                   266.5      175.6     198.0       161.4     205.4
M'Poy                          202.1      701.2     738.6       769.4      689.7
Shaba                           31.3     265.5      591.3       475.4     431.2
Pindi                          156.1     514.3      442.3       522.4     250.3
Haut Zaire                      59.2     215.1      384.0       391.8     488.1
Sub-total Seed Farms               715.2   1,871.7   2,354.2    2,320.4   2,064.7
B.  Bureau National de Semences  246.9        341.5      422.8      430.3      448.1
C.  Quality Control                  9.4       56.3      134.1      152.9   1,236.8
D.  Assistance to Research         251.9   1,045.2      678.6       437.4      229.3
E.  Assistance to Other Farms        3.9       34.2      44.4       108.9      112.3
F.  Studies Pilot/Projects         133.7      167.7       16.9      i97.5      160.4
G.  Technical Assistance           333.6      767.3    1040.7       666.0      286.4
H.  Professional Training          110.1      361.1     326.5       380.9      552.6
TOTAL                            1,804.7   4,645.0   5,018.2    4,694.3   5,090.6
Inflows
A.  External Financingb/         1,647.0   3,921.0   4,027.0    3,502.0   3,675.0
(IDA, UNDP)
B.  Seed Farm Sales                  -        301.2     523.6       699.1      945.8
C.  Government                     163.1      400.5     434.2       449.4      503.3
TOTAL                            1,810.1   4,622.7   4,984.8    4,650.5   5,124.1
a/ Based on ProJect Cost Tables.
b/ Includes unallocated amounts to finance physical contingencies.



- w
Get P»1«ui Xb Flo
kcr    1            2           3          4   _                 6          7         a         9          10        aI         12        13         15        IS         16        17         la        19         D9
A. 0fl
I .   h ktlt/               163.1       4M.5        434.2       449.4     563.3       -         _          _          -         _          _         _          _         _          _         _          _         _          _        _
2. 9çrct to ff 'li           -           --                      -          -        852.2      837.6     895.1      893.0     529.5      526.4     B  .6      895.6     835.6      873.1      668.0     821.8      836.4      M5.6    856
3. Ijw.s ta lm
a) tm    e   dmUeV   t142,6         125.5         99.8       74.2       39.0      10.0       -         -          -         -          -                    - _        _         _          _         _          _         _
b> SemI.     du,e/       14.3        40.0         7e6       111.0      169.8     213.2      114.1      114.1     114.1      114.1     112.9      111.8     110.6      W.5       1013       107.2      106.1     104.9      103.8     0I27
c) vrtndpctn  ven;    / -            -            _          _          _         _          _         _          _         _         152.1      152.1      152.1     152.1                IS2,1 152.1                     122.1  152. 1  2.1
lm  0èttik                  I.0         566.0        612.6      640.6      772.1   1.075.4      951.7   1.(A.2       997.1      943.9   1,101.4  I1,O9.5   1,068.3   1,067.2   1,133.5   1,W.3   I,083.0   1,093.4   1,061.5  1,060.4             ,
*.  Watm
1. mt I1#/                  -           Dl.2    523.6   699.1   945.8    -                      -          -         -          -          -         -          -         _          _         _          _          _         _         _
2. Tm O    jt a=
pcstt                    _           _            -          -          -           0.5      34e.5      113.5     243.0     490.5      600.0      693.0     641.0      463.5     335.5      ISO.5     495.S      60.0      693.0    619.0
TM    laz                    -          Dl,2         523.6      697.1      945.8      370.5      3$LS      113.5      243.0     490.5      600.0      693.0     641.0      463.5     385.5      150.5     495.5      <37.0     693.0    619.0
c. Net c    ne1            <3MI.0>     (254.8)      C 89.0)      vij5      173.7     (104.9)   (603.2)   <895.7)   (754.1)   (453.4)   (501.4)   (376.5)   (376.5)   (M3.7)   (7480)   (976.>)   (577.8)   (493.4)   (368.5)  (441.4)
as  It i        *tint indtthe I fum fu U b.  u tnf.rrml to thu prvt« mc  in yr 5. thltU dtn  di  famr u8, aith?nfi tedt k>.ully C nwm  reuam vmI  noermly rdjmn vddth tIn                     f    ad 'MI  O* rammt tto ti  Treul.
?um         fr the n le ed the ued fz   mlid be amtltinl Qarn i      mt   v .  omrru.t qm rt to l2<1 6d emvi mut   cein  dm lie m_ f                tU1 a2tbm.
bi  num   to + e  1.d   par yr d .iuebuid oe.it    u.nt.
ci   munt  te 3/4 cf 1.06 per yer cf di,zuad cealt mat.
d1 Ilti ta 1.(X par yr ef 1pi1pil, (IS$152.1 tldma) irm yre h  10-4 ad 3I  par yur etf  wipul (16456.3 thumavd) *ro ym  21-10.



Table 25
Page 1 of 2
ZAIRE
Seeds Project
Economiy Analysis
Rate c_fReturn/Net Present Value
Sensitivity/Switching Values
(U.s. S.op )
BENEFITS                               I        2       3        4        5        6        7       a                 10     il       12      13       14       15                17,     i5       17       20
~~~~~~~. ._ ... .._._. __ ......_._........   ..__                                                                                                                16   17........... ... 1..  2.0..... __
B.1 Maize                              -        -       -   I       2510.10  3611.30  4311,00  4845.00  5255,30  5585.90  5585.0  5585..0  5890        590  555.10  555.10  58O.10              2&2J0   2.2 ô5o
B,2 Soybeans                           -    1.70   15.40   33.10   16.30  155.50  176.00  1t6.20  241,80  262U10  262.10   262.10   262.10  262,10  262U10  262.10  2U.10  26  10  2.10  e2.10
8.3 Croundnuts                         -    16.60   4110   140.60  240.70  3m.00o  510,60  610.50  701,20  78.40   7.40  789.40   7.40  M.40   M.40   M.40  789.40   M 789.* 7 9   799e4
8.4 Beans                              -    0.70      6.00   26.80  "930  1480   202,70   26060  351.20   419,60   419,60  419.60   419.60  419,60  41i9.0   419,60   419.60   419.60  419. 4   419.40
B.5 Rice                               -        -   10,20   41,60  100.90   106.50   135.40   167.20   213J00   259.10   259.10   259.10   259.10   259.10  259.10   M59.10  259.10  21.10   259w.2   2W891
B.6 Cassava, Coattes                   -        -   29,30  200,90  1130,00  4185.00  97.00 1447.50 2027.00 20458.o 20458.00 2848.00 28450.00 20458.00 28458.00 2043.002450.002045800 20450.8 o4 2.0
8.7 Cassava, Leaves                    -        -    10,20    70.70   375   1472.00  3230,40  5152,00  7360.00 1 96O 1000,60 1060 1000,60 I09.60 10009,60  o000960 1009.60 1o00.60 1o000.0 1                .o     T
B.8 Cassava, Cuttings                           -    1.6O    11.00   62,10   230.00   506,00   805.00  1150.0  15U4.00  1U.oo   U.400  1564.00  IU4.00  15U4.00  15U4.00  1564.O  15U400 1U4e0   14 tO
COSTS
C.1   Inveutment                 143t.20  375.70  3258.20   M. 40  2150.40  397,20   U3,60  1162,50  1137.50   703.30  478,90   315.10   368.00   m3.a00       2.30 m72.20   612.60  471.M0    3.L0   22.00
C.2   Recutrent                   300,20   570.1   897.   1093.40  1464,20  1837,70  2051,70  2374,10  2403.70  2474.70  2474.70  2474.70  2474.70  2474,70 2474.7  2474,70  247 74.70 2474,70  247479  247497
C.3   On Faro                          -   23.30    80,00   634.90  2151.30  153.40  6252.30  825530 11441.50 14243,80 14253.00 14243.00 14243.00 14243.00 14243.80 14243.80 142431.8  1424380 14243.0  1010
Total Benefits                         -   19.00   121.60  111.70  4644,10 103?4.10 11315.10 2412.00 36207.50 47347.70 47347.70 473470 47347&70 47347.70 47347.70 47347.70 473.70 47347.70 v347.70 47347.70
Total Costc                      1739,40 417790  4236,10  4234,70   765.S0  581830  8875.6O 19789.0 142o70 17421.80 17240 17o34,40 170.50 17252.3017700.0 1761.7» 17411,10 17197,40 17034.00 1674*0.
Net Benefite                    -173.40 -415.970 -4114.50 -3035.0O -1121,00  4576.e6  9439,50 1402.;'0 21224.80 29925.0 30140430 303l3.30 3026L20 300.4  29646.90 29657.00 2993.60 30150.30 10313.30 07,20
Economic Rate oE  Return: 43.621                                                                                                                                                sr
a)   Due to perishability and difficulty of transport it has been assumed that only 50   of the incremental  leaf production vould
be conumed. In the event that increased supply vould cause the price of leaves to drop by 501, the project's ERR vould be
about 40S.



Mfl5EIIl VUOECF MET ST5IU AT A DIUT  RATE O  13.51
ITOT    U1  102      W 270     U1 502   W     102      Ul4 202   MII 501 LU  1 YM  LS 2 tUJS LMS 3 tMO                                      _
CTOT           4lI064    73o9374    U06.0,5  122o461.1   4fi653           7544.2    1.150.9   47,M 3    34g664.5   23,4631.
1W SOI         55.e55.1   67,17,    00.1is.1  I16,S11J   43.72n4         31.5,M   -4.7195    41U426J    289714.e   17.513,3                             UPMSA IT                   mm
UW 202        4n.s5   42.03s5    74i167%6  110.560*   37t774.4   25.443.3  -10.750,0   35s476.4   22.763.6   11.56U2.                *T                   ' l                           'h
U1 50M         32054.!   44ol5.2   56163   92709.5   11.123.0              771.9  -20.601.4   17,625.0    4912.2   -6t200.5                            1 840.40 _   ol65.6       -35_.57
UN to2         479756è0   79,17.9         l 92A.I    120,412.3   55U5.7   43p494,6    7,101.4   53427.    40.o64,9   299414.2                              X 8434U    OU-60i6270 o -732,1m
M  201         73.707.3   05.130.4   17.4   134.362,7   61,574.2   41.445.1   13,051,1   51.270.2   46.565.4   35.3647                                  2     4 5U
S 50           9115,5.6  103#681.7  115.020,8  152o214.1   7t.427.5   47,216,4   30.103.2   77o129#6   64#416,8   53:216.0          1.3                 2.511,04   -60#6200,4    -52245.54
LA  I TMAs            - 5                                                                  -   541.54.9   41.742.1   30. 41 4                           1     23.95   -e0622.40    -7.220.
LA 2 l-                                                                                                     47,7.m    36,777.2      t u     .      l      17.04  -61.e004        -ném
LAU  3 TEMO           -          -           -          -           -           -          -           -          -   42.271,3      0.7                24.3,71   -37o467.64      -253.
Il                 3.002.81   -50,003.46   -1,t1L
INEUL RAUTES  f ITM OF ET STRE                                                                    Ci'1,1,92   72n917.27                         55M27
C.2               10.511,75    72.318,11      so7.m
C,3               37V1.0U      M6022          163.lU
BiOt     1t 101      tP 202     IP 50    US 10           l 202 SM W    50  LAI 1 tEE LA 2 TM LU 3 Ts             TOTAL METtS    1210310.98    11.504,53        -50.85
CTOT             43,17       47,222     50.511      5,076      31.616      358006      14.54      32.735      25.657     20.7        TTo 'T            50  1m23                    1 7               . 
t  lum           3.1989      43.il      46.0        55.316     35.957      31.336      |9132      29,817      23.224     18.730                                                                        'Cir
U1 20            36644      40,3l5      43.617      52,071     32.55       27.16       2*357      27.111      20.171     14.037                          O     - I u ai0C3.     -064
w  501           27.816      31.U7      35.00"      43.617     23,31P      17.851       IOE       11,172      14.1       11.4        In       R       ut 1ni r 43b*1
l02             47.602     51.216      54.535       3,202     43.617      39.142      19.22      35,123      20,11      23051 
NS 201           52.071    *55.715      51.074      67.102     40,073      43.617     2502        31,459      31,247     25.546 
NS sa1           705.23     74,459      70.121      17.07      66o.261     61,59      43,617      53,622      42,.       35.3n
LU  I                 -           -          -           -          -           -          -      43.6l7      32.735     25.657
LuI 2 TEES            -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -      43s617     32.735
tu  3 à *M            -           -          -           -          -           -           -          -           -     43lil7



-78-                            Aunex 1
Page 1 of 2
ZAIRE
Seeds Project
Production of Major Foodcrops
1.        Although statistical data are unreliable and often contradictory,
the folloving information indicates the general trends in foodcrop
cultivation and production.
2.        Cassava is grown in all regions, but the greatest potential for
development îs in the belt from Bas-Zaire to Shaba, and in particular
Bandundu. Although in coipetition vith maize and rice, cassava remains a
staple for a large part of the population. Estimated annual output (about
13 million tons in 1983) naeets most of the requirement. Yields are low
(7 tons/ha) due to poor cultivation techniques. Farmers generally
plant local varieties, often susceptible to various diseases and pesta.
The National Cassava Program (PRONAN) has, with assistance from the
International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA), developed more
resistant sad productive nev varieties, but performance under mixed
cropping conditions and other secondary characteristics are still being
tested. The improved varieties have been diffused on a limited scale ouly.
3.        Maize, the second most important food crop is grown especially in
Shaba, Xasal and Bandundu, which together accouant for 60Z of domestlc
output. Traditionally, maize farmers use their own seed, which has often
deteriorated to such an extent that average yield rarely exceeds l ton/ha.
For some years, the National Maize Program (PNM) bas been producing
composite varieties (KasaI, Salongo, etc.) with higher yields at farm level
(2 to 3 tons/ha). The National Fertilizer Program (PNE) has also helped
raise yields by introducing fertilizers. Whereve. farmers received
adequate a,ricultural services and price incentives, they have responded
positively to new techniques, vith impressive results. Maize cultivation
occupied 600,000 ha in 1970 and 720,000 ha in 1981, a 20Z increase. The
area is estimated at 800,000 in 1983. During the sa-me period, output rose
from 430,000 tons to 640,000 tons a 40% increase mainly due to increased
co-ercial farming. Production in 1983 vas 630,000 tons, but still annual
maize imports total 200,000 tons or more. The major constraints to higher
output are the lack of improved seeds and fertilizers, defects of the
marketing system and veak extension services.
4.        Rice ls grown as upland rice in all the forest region of
Bandundu, Equateur, Haut-Zalre and Kivu which together contribute 80Z of
total production. The Equateur region (especially the district around
Bumba) accounts for 20Z of domestic output and supplies 60% of the rice
consumed in Kinshasa. The most coumon variety is R66 and to a lesser
extent R46,R60. In addition, the National Rice Program (PNR) has, with
Chinese Assistance, introduced and developed irrigated rice cultivation in
some regions, but the system is belng adopted slowly in spite of its higher
ylelds (up to 4tons/ha). The total area under rice vas lncreased from
about 240,000 ha ln 1970 (5,000 ha irrigated) to 290,000 ha ln 1980; output



-79-                               Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
was 179,000 tons and 240,000 tons respectively, with low average yields
(700 kg of paddy per ha). Currently, rice imports are about 60,000 tons
per year and increasing, because rice (and bread also) is gradually
replacing other food crops as a popular food ingredient . Constraints to
accelerated production increase are: (i) the lack of improved seeds and the
delay in diffusing of new available varieties; and (ii) lack of adequate
marketing ana extension services.
5.        Groundnuts and other edible legumes (beans, peas, etc.) are
staple crops in certain regions (Bas-Zaire and Kivu) and supplementary
crops in others. They are usually a component in crop rotation, and are
very often found in association with maize, and cassava. The area cropped
under groundnuts increased from 384,000 ha iuk 1970 to 465,000 in 1980, and
those for other legumes from 200,000 to 250,000ha. Yields are very low
(0.7 ton/ha for groundnuts and 300 to 600 kg per ha for other legumes),
mainly because of seed-borne diseases. Average yields for peanuts are
dropping while those for other legumes are more stable. The production of
healthy and improved seed would be the most important step toward
increasing output.  Currentlv, soybean cultivation is expanding rapidly but
seed supply is inadequate to meet the demand.



-80-                          Annex II
Page 1 of 3
ZAIRE
Seeds Project
Cultivar Improvement
Maize
1.        PNM made important progress in improving maize composite with
CIMMYT assistance. PNM's first effort was the selection of improved lunes
from crossings of SR52 (Zambia) with H632 (from Kenya), resulting in its
firat maize composite Shaba Safi.  Thereafter mexican varieties vere
introduced (mainly Tuxpeno and Eto), and selections were made from the
crosses of their Fl vith Shaba Safi, resulting in the currently best known
cultivars Shaba (for highlands above 1,000 m) and Kasai I and Salongo I
(for 500-1,000 m altitude) and Salongo II for middle and low lands.
Selection focused mainly on production improvement and altitude
adaptation. Less has been done on disease resistance and lodging
characteristics. The selected cultivars are disease sensitive in the
second cropping season, when mostly GPS5 is planted, whlch is more
resistant. PNM will shortly focus more on disease resistance under USAID
supported project, and vith technical asssitance from IITA, especially for
the introduction of virus resistant varieties.
The most important available and widely cultivated cultivars
are:
Variety    Origin      Lineage     Suitable for  Potential       Remarks
altitudes    in tons/ha
(in m.)
GPS 5    Gandajika   15 locally   500-1000           6-7        Sensitive to
1960        selected                                   lodging, some
uines                                     resistance to
mildev.
Mainly for
season B
Kasai I   PNM        Tuxpeno       500-1000          6-8        Mainly for
1972-80    x Eto                                      season A
Salongo I    -       10 best          -              6-8        Mainly for
families     500-1000                     season A
Tuxpeno
x Eto,
IId cycle
Salongo II   --                    0-1000            6-8
Shaba                 (Tuxpeno
x Eto)       above 1000        6-8
x Shaba Saf i



-81-                           Annex II
Page 2 of 3
PNM also participates in the international varietal testing
program of CINMYT and, as a result, it is nov testing Pool 24 (including
Salongo) at the Gandajika and Kaniama research stations.
2.        Dufling the period of assistance by CIMKYT the PNM focussed on the
production of maize composites, instead of hybride, because: (i)
composites, vith a broader genetical base, would be better adapted to the
variable groving conditions at the local level; (ii) saall farmersa, the
majority of maize grovers, would have difficulty buying annually the more
expensive hybrida; and (iii) yields obtained from composites vere equal to
those obtained from hybrids under low-input conditions. These assumptions
are valid under difficult economic conditions. However, it is not certain
that they remain 80 if cultivation incentives improve and farmers are
better trained. In addition, the system of multiplication of base seeds
used so far is one of continuous selection in successive generations, as
opposed to a system of conservation of pure lines, whose progeny is blended
to produce the composite. The continuous selection changes over time the
character of the reproduced varieties and has a risk of consanguinity. In
order to maintain high quality of composite base seeds PNM has to import
original parent lines from CIMMYT. Recently interest in maize hybrid
selection is growing, and the new PNM program would look with IITA
assistance into the possibilities to develop hybrids in Zaire. At
Gandajika, hybrid selection started already before 1970, and the program
could be resumed.
Cassava
3.        Cultivar improvement for cassava vas revitalized since 1974 under
the PRONAM program. The Belgian research and later INERA had already
indentified some promising cultivars, notably the 02864 (para 2.04), which
has proved its bacteriosis resistance during the epidemic disease outbreak
in the 1970's. However, it iB not resistant'to other diseases. PRONAM
foeussed originally on disease resistance and tuber production and started
a biological pest control study, since the mealy bug developed into a major
threat. It alseo included In its research program other criteria (such as
leaf production and taste, size and color of tubers, taste and toxicity of
tubers and behavior in mixed cropping systems). So far two bacteriosis
reslstant cultivars have been selected, which are now belng tested at the
garmers level. The best known cultivars are:
Variety        Origin        Particularly        Potential      Remarks
suitable for       in tons/ha
02864         Mvuazi           Bas-Zaire          15-20       Resistance to
1960                                            bacteriosis,
not to other
dise.a&q
F100           Bandundu         Bandundu           n.a.       Sensitive to
mozaique and
bacteriosis
30074/2        Mvuazi           Bas-Zaire          25-30      Resistant to
1981                                           bacteriosis
30085/28       Mvuazi  "q                            ""
Eala Amer      Yangambi         Equateur           15-20
Mumbala                         Bandundu
Mundele



-82-                            Annex Il
Page 3 of 3
Rice
4.        Rice research started at Yangambi before 1960, and the best known
cultivars selected are R66 and 2031. Research vas interrupted in 1960 and
later on resumed in 1970 by lntroducing IRAT and IRRI-lines. Work on
irrigated rice started vith support of Chinese bilateral assistance.
Moreover, the main crop remalns upland rainfed rice.  Most farmers have nov
used their own seeds over 20 years and yields have dropped substantially,
and the purity of base-seeds ls not rigorously controlled. The main task
of PNR vill be to produce and distribute controlled rice seeds. The major
tested cultivars are:
Potential
Suitable     Yield
ton/ha
Variety        Type              Origin           Regions        (paddy)
R66, R46       Upland           Yangambi           All Zaire       1-3
2031X)                                                             1-3
Peking 72/5    Irrigated        China              Bumba           3-5
Bas-Zaire
x/ Crossing of R66xIR8
,rom a total of about 30 cultivars of irrigated rice, six were
selected as suitable for Zaire (K 017, Taiwan 1 and 5, Peking 72-5, IR8 and
Zoungué). From a total of about 35 upland rice varieties, (from IET, IRAT,
IITA a.o.) none has so far been released or distributed, although
experimental resulte indicate a potential yield level of two to four
tons/ha.
Grain Leguies
5.        Less vork has been done on grain legumes after 1960.  Some bean
varieties have been selected at Mulungu (Vulma, C8, C10, C15) but they
still have to be tested at varlous ecologinal zones. A great number of
imported seeds and some local varieties are aloo under observation at
Mvuazi, Gandajika and Mulungu. For Soja the PNL has tested varieties for
the various tcological zones. They consist mainly of the SJ groupa
selected at Ya:.Zambi and imported cultivars. The major problem for yield
improvement is th> bad phytosanitary situation of legume cultivation. The
selection of disease free base seeds with assistance of IITA under the
National Commodity ProgrDas (PNL) has the highest priority.  The first
multiplication of seeds should also be carried out under supervision of
research staff vith respect to, disease control, cultivation techniques,
harvesting and storage.



-83-                         Annex III
Page 1 of 2
ZAIRE
SERDS PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A. Sector/Sub-sector Reporte and Studies                        Document No.
AI.   DADR, 'Plan de Relance Agricole 1982-1984"                 108.515 A
June 11, 1982
A2.  DADR, "Evaluation du Plan de Relance Agricole,              108.515 B
1982-1984" Ocotber 1983
A3.   EAPCA, "Zaire:  Updating Report on the Implementation    109.296 A
of the Agricultural Recovery Plan, June 1982 -
October 1983" December 16, 1983
A4.  Dep. du Plan, Bilan du Secteur Agricole
Draft September 1984
A5.   USAID, Applied Agricultural Research and Outreach,
Project Preparation Document, September 1983
A6.   (Rapport Provisoire) Groupe d'Etude de
Réorganisation du Système National de Recherche
Agronomique du Zaire, December 1984.
<avec collaboration de l'ISNAR)
B. Project Related Reports and Studies
3l.   DADR, Schema Directeur du Plan Semencier, June 1982
B2.  ICD, (Industry Council for Development, New York)           108.770
"Le développement de l'industrie Semencière
Nationale au ZaIre", Rapport de la mission de l'ICD,
Décembre 1983
B3.  DADR, IBRD, Rapport de la mission de prépar&:ion pour
le projet d'Assistance au Plan Semencier national,
May 1984
fl4. BUNASEN, le développement d'une industrie Seudncière
au ZaIre, September 1984
B5.   DAI (Developement Alternatives, Inc.,                      108.267
Washington DC) Production of MaIze Seed for
North Shaba, June 1983
.-4



-84-                            Annex III
Page 2 of 2
Document No.
B6.   UNDP/FAO "Support i la mise en place d'un Bureau
National de Semences" Document du Projet, October 1984
B7.   Ministery of Foreign Affairis, Italy "Identificazione
di un programma di sostegno nel settore della ricerca
agronomica per la Republica delle ZaIre" July 1984.
Prepared by the "Instituto Agronomico per l'Oltremare"
Florence.
B8.   Arrête Departmental 100003 du mai 12, 1984, portant          109.393
création et organisation du Bureau National Semencier
C. Implementation
Cl.   Implementation volume (Table of Contents)
Annex 1 - Agricultural Research
Annex 2 - Techaical Aspects of Seed Froduction
Annex 3 - Seed Marketing
Annex 4 - Participating Agencies and Parallel Activities
Annex 5 - Organization and Project Implementation
Annex 6 - Procurement and Disbursement
Annex 7 - Standard Cost
Annex  8 - Cost Tablus
Aunex 9 - Fara Mode-.s
Annex 10 - Financial Results
Annex 11 - Economic Analysis
C2.   Working papers on:
1. Kaniama Kasese
2. Upland rice
3. Situation Sanitaire de Légumineuses (Report of
Mr. H.M. Maraite)
4. Background documents F.C.D. and B.C.A.
5. Information on markets/prices
6. Climate data (Report 1975, Service Climatologlque)



ZNRE
SEED6 PROJECt
Depafnwnt f Agrdculture and Rurtl Doebopmont
Organafotnal Choat
Sbr CU-i*a a
Ge. S~OeVI
OCR ci Co X
I  IS
T  E  mg 1,ffi X  E tnrt c
IEkAB4 PPGAM            m.ici
c a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ow Cima
F*LimRl OGR M 
Om                              (Mo)l
- G6t1_o - K._                      o (C 5u)
_~~~~~~~                                           I
*ei I 4  oego'» Iw oe' d~w~ p    OeI* d*- G Ps                                                                             r
.4 uu'i  ~dwcm n'W oeoeW   poinda «*N                                                                 Ioeà-uinitràm
P  (  dé*')  h  b vh @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



ZNRE
SEEOS PROJECT
Oaonzomlon  Chatt 0<.Agd .ufu  Rooeah
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dpb .    Co
$_O  P«*                         g. _    *l
C 9I                                                      r(  )
p«Vo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
K41c*a'         Ko 7Y'                       LOu'
Gaoewo          Goea'          Iw~ <rof (o*Wa
o h@ eills oe                                            LiIpWM
t1~~~~~~~~~~~~t
thIFTMceM les  CECm   PaHU
M    21904     Mwh~



ZNRE
SEEDS PROJECT
Organizalional Chait BUNSEM
NATIONAL SEED BUREAU l
~I
I                                     I 
I        ~If
I                 Coordinaxtin apEWntechnlo41 ostanc <ios 
__I
-          HIerachIca ReltioIns                         ' 
- - --- Fijncflon,i Relations
Wodd Bae*-26843           W



ZAIRE
SEEDS PROJECT
Project Implementation Structure
STATE COMMJSSOJNER                                                  STATE COMMISSIONER
SCIENflRC RESEARCH                                                AGRI. & RURAL OEWLOP.
STATE       I          I
SECREIARY
_______I                               ~~~~~~~~~~~GENERAL  J   NA1IONAL 
NAnW  INSM1UTE                                               SE<*:IARY           SEED OARD 
OF AGRIC. RESEAMCH_T
INERA
SIUDIES &             DEPARIMEMNT OF GENERAL
PLANNING UNIT           ADMINISIR. OF PROJEOCT
j              I                     ~~~~~~~~~~MonHolro %xk
program ilemenftoin
|          r  ~~~NATIODN4L COMMODITY  ||SEED QUALIIY   |i                          | DEVELOPMENT'PROJECTS|
j          | ~~~RESEARCH PROC       |               | CONMROL SfSI  |j                   PRIVATE ENTRMOES
Controcts for base-soed production iContracts fot s»d productbn
!exterWon & mcoketrhg
I~. 
Legends                                                                         EED PRODUCTION
Herorchical Retlobnhlpse
- - - -- nFunctiobnl or Technical Relolnhhlpsa
-  s -  S -  Controctual Reodbnships
Decembe< 1984
WotW  ank-26541



-                    ~~~ ~        ~ ~~~~-89-  Chart 5
æi            _g    jI 31X
i             I                       IIII1
o    J L3S4t;
f . : - .  . .. ..



_"L     1                 _I m 1  El Tl:::L 
]  4    1 1-Il                  1 .11--II  tW
s s<M I1 j                             XIi _ L  
d;       ~~~~~~111 I   Il             S
.~~ ~ .I4i                     I   i  __.           __
,, ~ ~ I I j ,                         I           I..... .



U S  /  CHAD /    NIOM                                                                                                                                  t . n 241 @ a I 1
P.H C ~     JUOAN             ,CWTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
t@ o.[!ç~                 SIJCA>A     q CG   VJ   l   ;  ErHI  ;f                   f                        ~SUDAN
80.~~~>A
`                 APAWIXNN RIS _.'sA     .,                                          )_> 
GA            ZAIRE    f  o.; 
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~ 
-  t£ AM - B I  TANANIAAI
_                    {                                  \  '  "  ':            '          :        s          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UCANDA
_A ON                      PEOPLES REPU*S
OFT                              'TE   ' CON
K-IVU            RWANDA
=tNA~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N   R!T
l$        Ir       X                  s!         *              to          <            5E Z A 1 R E;N
DEVELOPMENT STRUCTURES                                        t\          l ,                                t; 
MAJOR  FOODCROP AREAS                                               _    ;         .               '.;
MAJOR~~~~~~~~~- 9UA WVILPMCN PROJICNM               0  Nam                              v  ,  f _        _         U
IPNS IUS101USO COTON COtANID                                    zt_3 f              :.  t.   
ptiKo IIPACY19M  SOTEXCO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                             okiUtiU~
CCOtRIU rrol         ~~~~111 La COTONN   Ip tE<,  R                                                        w     tLi                  s «
4 R'.NVT1 NOUNaw IPCIA)UACAID    fiL)                                                                                                             1AN* ANIf
CO AK tlOAOTZI FESt CZAIR                                                                                       .
tfOoùucEN  SuTRUGCTRES&                                                                ANGOLA I    /                       /                    h        ww_
_NORTt AIT RAL o    nVCot PWNY PROJICTU.
, !~~~~~~~~~IYR IUl.l1 IOA'CIOIVPACI                  uw mmt t   1 \  _rl_
MIR LU IA (IFAIeDI               I     «o tita 0  ma                                                        ZAMBIA 
-o.,                 4R  T     C   B.,x O    N.s   cIpt!i;
PNS I IJSIO ntto   tb  CIC    nt                             RqIoAa   efl.uI Iy I                                                            u!u at
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....Ue                                                                                                Lt
DECEM_EIR 19484



tCH4AO/
4 v--  t:  t    woF    ,                              CENTRAL AFRICAN REPU4LIC
| T"«ANIGIRIA    /                                                                                                                                           S
*                                                                  (ewau , . ^-
GAICN  ~   ZAIRE
:                                                    ..                                 20             1             24                          xr t~~~AAh4~   .
y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UAD
A BON                     (PEOPLE'SFU
: ::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LI
A -  TL A NT r...                                            01N  ÇT CSANZANeNTAI                                                                         '
O ClAN
Ir .
SEED PRODUCTION AND AGRICULTURAL
RESEARCH CENTERS
*  44nà ,'uIfOA                 Rtffl Pum
C..~'u u.e4a', coned   -   MNtb, .a.o,m.  ruAA.
4 0 .pis.cre          wb8o,m m
t    *                  O <NViAP O,~~~~bff 4NOMA iO,IO,S Sim                                                                                                                   40»«m"wf
OECÉMBER 1004-



LtAu    MM    j                                                                                         or14' 
[LCNTRAL AFRICAN RIPUJLIO
GIt sts_t- 44                                                                         J- S      \ . i   M    IUDAN
MUENA ~ ~ ZIR
i          «» tsk~~~~~~~~~~~C + TH                                ANOL /NRe                               g1             C    -
-   -"*?                 * 0A10N4*%    Z/.d_ U N
OCIAM                             I
- i"ao^*__-r - (\~ ti
RASONFLAN ELVTO
h *t .      _._. { ZAMBIA     -              -       §     t      ;  ,  Y     ,  S   M
._ --A .........  t I  Y    ANE                                                                                     ACEFER Ni-
Y"# ~ ~   ~    ~    m






