Documet of
The World Bank
FOIR oFFIcIL USE ONLY
CÈK /6'5 ;A∆
Reioft No. P-4091-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPNNT CREDIT
IN AN AMO1JNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 15.1 MII.LION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
SEEDS PROJECT
May 24, 1985
Khh doome.t hm a rIellf   djglom ud  ay be  d by recpbets .lY lu the perfonmuc of
theAr ece dudls lE cmataikmuy na  orwlse be dlsdo.ed wi<homt WorMdUuak m1 --ztiou.






CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:  Zaire (Z)                        Z 1.00 = 100 makuta
Exchange Rates:l!
March 11-15, 1985 (average)                        Z 1.00 = SDR 0.0219
US$ 1.00 = Z 48.015
Z 1.00 = US$ 0.021
WEIGRTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           =      3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)      =      0.62 mile
1 sq kilometer (km2)  =      0.386 square miles
1 sq meter (m2)       =      10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)    =      1.13 cubic yards
FISCAL YEAR: January 1 to December 31
ACRONYMS
BUNASEM    National Seed Bureau
DADR       Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
DES        Department of Tigher Education and Scientific Research
FA&O       Food and Agriculture Organization
IDA        International Development Association
VNERA      National Institute for Agricultural Research
ISNAR      International Service for National Agricultural Research
ONATRA     National Transportation Office
PNM        National Maize Program
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
REGIDESO   National Water ComDany
SOFIDE     Development Finance Company
SOTEXCO    Cotton Textile Company
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
1/ On September 12, 1983, concomitant with a devaluation of 80 percent,
Zaire introduced a transitional dual exchange rate regime consisting
of an official rate and a free market rate, shown in parenthesis
above. The two rates were unified on February 24, 1984. Since then
the rate has floated on a weekly basis.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
SEEDS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:    Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary: Department of Agriculture and Rural Developuent
Amount:      SDR 15.1 million (US$14.9 million equivalent)
Terus:       Standard IDA terms.
Project      The project vould be the initial five year time slice of a
Description  long term effort to establish a viable seed industry in
Zaire with increasing private sector participation. The
project would increase the production, diffusion and qua-
lity of controlled seeds of the main food crops in Bas-
Zaire, Bandundu, Kasai Oriental, Shaba and Haut Zaire.
Project activities would include: (a) establishment and
operation of a National Seed Bureau; (b) assistance to
research stations for the production of base-seeds; (c)
establishment and operation of five seed farms; (d)
assistance to other existing seed farms; (e) development
of a seed quality control systeu; (f) training; (g)
special studies and pilot projects; and (h) technical
assistance services.
Project      The project would improve yields of food producing farmers
Benefits     directly by providing seeds and cuttings of higher produc-
tion potential, and indirectly by increasing the cost-
effectiveness of other inputs such as fertilizer and
labor,  The project would thus improve the annual income
of about 10 percent of the suall farmers in Zaire. Produc-
tion of maize, cassava, rice, peanuts and grain legumes
would increase significantly, thereby assisting Zaire in
its goal of achieving food self-sufficiency. The project
would also assist in developing a self sustaining seed
industry and a seed quality control system, train the
required technical staff, and initiate the necessary seed
legislation.
Project      The project's main risks are those associated with the
Risks        overall situation of the Zairian economy, including short-
ages of local professional staff and of local financial
resources, and the proper coordination of all agencies
participating in the establishment of a seed production
structure. The impact of such risks on project implemen-
tation would be reduced, to an extent, by the requirement
T1IIsdocumcot ba a suied distibution and may bc used by recpients only in the peformance
of tekoficrial dutie& ts contSents may n otherwue be dickoed without Wodd Bankauthohfiz.



<il)
that seed production units be managed by entities accept-
able to IDA; and that Government appoint a qualified
expert as Director of the National Seed Bureau. Continued
improvements in resource allocation and financial manage-
ment in the agricultural sector are expected to alleviate
the risks linked to potential delays in the provision of
Government funds. An intensive staff training and tech-
nical assistance program would also support project imple-
mentation. At the project level, major risks are the
adequate supply of base seeds needed for seed multiplica-
tion and farmers' receptivity to the use of improved seeds
at commercial price levels. Consequently, specific pro-
visions are made under the project to assist research
stations responsible for the production of base seeds, to
promote seed sales on the basis of marketing strategies
adapted to regional conditions, and to further strengthen
on-going extension services.
Estimated Cost:
(US$ million)
Local       Foreign      Total
National Seed Bureau                  0.79          0.66        1.45
Seed Farus                            3.56         3.56         7.12
Assistance to Other Seed Farms        0.05          0.18        0.23
Seed Quality Control                  0.57         0.49         1.06
Assistance to Research Centers        0.77          1.32        2.09
Professional Training                 0.37          0.97        1.34
Studies and Pilot Projects            0.11         0.39         0.50
Tecbnical Assistance                  0.40          2.15        2.55
Total Base Costs                      6.62          9.72       16.34
Physical Contingencies                0.40         0.52         0.92
Price Contingencies                   1.78          2.21        3.99
Total Project Costs                   8.80         12.45       21.25
(of which Taxes and Duties)        (0.06)         -          (0.06)
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local       Foreign      Total
Goverament                            2.01          -           2.01
Sales of Controlled Seeds             2.47          -           2.47
IDA                                   3.75         11.13       14.88
UNDP                                  0.57          1.32        1.89
Total (including taxes)               8.80         12.45       21.25



(iii)
Estiuated Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal years      FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY9O    FY91
AnnuaL               1.5     2.4      2.8     3.1      3.0     2.1
Cumulative           1.5     3.9     6.7      9.8    12.8    14.9
Rate of Return: 44 percent (over 100 percent of total project co0tS)
Appraisal Report: Report No. 5427-ZR
Maps: IBRD 18447, 18448, 18449.



REPORT ANU RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A SEEDS PROJECT
1.         I submit the f olloving report and recomiendatioi on a pro-
posed development credit to the Republic of Zaire in the amount of SDR
15.1 million equivalent (US$14.9 million) on standard IDA terms to
finance a Seeds Project.   The Project would be co-financed, on a
parallel basis, by a grant of US$1.9 million equivalent from the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP).
PART I - THE ECONOMY1/
2.        The latest Grey Cover economic memorandum vas distributed to
the Executive Directors in April 1985 (Report No. 5417-ZR). Its major
findings are reflected below.
Background
3.        Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in teres of area
and the fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita,
estimated at about US$160 in 1983, ranks among the lowest in the conti-
nent. Approximately one-third of its population of about 30 million
live in urban areas, and the population density is 12 persons per sq.
km. Urbanization has been proceeding at a rate of about 7 percent per
annum, or more than twice the rate of population growth.   Although
agriculture (commercialized and subsistence) normally accounts for 30
percent of GDP, it provides employment and income for more than three-
quarters of the population.   Mining and mineral-processing normally
account for about 18 percent of GDP; this sector has traditionally been
the largest source of public revenue and provides more than two-thirds
cf the country's export earnings.
4.         When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it vas ill-prepared
for the change, both technically and institutionally. The first six to
seven years following independence vere marked by violent political
strife and a severe disruption of the economy. But after the restora-
tion of political order and stability in 1967, GDP grew by about 7 per-
cent in real terns annually until 1974. Since then, however, Zaire has
been experiencing serious economic difficulties which are attributable
1/ This section, amended to reflect the latest developuents, remains
substantially the same as Part I of the Presidentts Report for the
Lulua Agricultural Development Project (P-3907-ZR) dated December
13, 1984.



-2 -
to both external and internal f actors.  The veakness of vorld copper
prices through most of this period was a major contributor to both the
severity and the duration of the crisis.
Evolution of Current Difficulties
5.         Until the late 1970s, Zairels attempts to cope with the cri-
sis vere uneven and uncoordinated. As a result, by 1978, commercia-
lized GDP contracted to about 10 percent below the pre-crisis (1972-74)
level; the overall budgetary deficit attained a record level; and def-
icit financing, together vith the worsening shortage of basic consumer
goods, fuel and intermediate products, pushed the annual inflation rate
to about 50 percent. Although the decline of GDP vas arrested in 1979,
the economy continued to face serious difficulties that year.   The
expansion of credit to the Covernuent (to f inaxxce the budgetary defi-
cit) and to the rest of the economy continued to exert pressure on
prices, which rose by more than 100 percent in the capital city during
the year.  The balance of payments also remained under strong pressure,
as evidenced by the continued accumulation of external payment arrears
- a trend which had started in 1975. Although two stabilization pro-
grams, supported by the IHF, were adopted and three debt rescheduling
agreements under the Paris Club vere concluded during the 1975-79
period, these could not be iimplemented and therefore brought limited
relief.
6.        The year 1979 saw the beginning of more systeuatic efforts by
Zaire and its major donors to deal vith the crisis. These included a
new stabilization program supported by the IMF; debt rescheduling
agreements vith the Paris Club (December 1979) and the syndicated pri-
vate banks (April 1980); the preparation of a public investment program
(PIP) for 1979-81 with the help of the World Bank; the installation of
external advisers at the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance; the
revamping of some institutions (the Customs Office, the Ministry of
Agriculture, the Investment Commission), and the creation of others (a
Central Pay Directorate at the Ministry of Finance). These and other
efforts produced considerable improvements in 1980.  GDP expanded by
2.4 percent in real terms, aided by a strong recovery in copper produc-
tion. The budgetary deficit vas reduced substantially, and the infla-
tion rate vas cut by more than half - to about 44 percent - despite
the devaluation of the zaire by about 30 percent vis-a-vis the SDR
early in the year. At the same time, Zaire observed all the perform-
ance criteria under the new IMF-supported stabilization prograim and
complied vith the debt rescheduling agreements vith the Paris Club
and the syndicated private banks.
7.        Largely on the strength of this improved performance, in mid-
1981 Zaire adopted a three-year prograin of economie and financial
adjustient supported by an -Extended Fund Facility" (EFF) from the IMF
in an amount equivalent to SDR 912 million. Zaire also concluded (in
July 1981) a new debt rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club. Hov-
ever, economie performance during the year fell below expectations
because of external and internal factors. The Veakening of the copper
and cobalt markets caused Zaire's merchandise exports to fall by about



- 3 -
US$540 million (or 26 percent) in nominal terme. Real importe vere
lover than in any year during the crisis and amounted to 40-50 perce t
of the pre-crisis level. As a result of these developments as vell as
a weakening of fiscal discipline, the budgetary deficit expanded four-
fold in nominal terns - to the equivalent of 7 percent of GDP. Zaire
could not comply vith either the criteria under the EFF or the July
1981 debt rescheduling agreement; it began accumulating external debt
arrears in the third quarter of 1981; and the EFF was formally cancel-
led effective June 21, 1982.
8.          World copper prices fell sharply in 1982 -  to the lowest
level (in real terms) in more than 30 years - thus accentuatlng
Zaire's economic difficulties.   By year end, external debt arrears
totaled about US$940 million, of which US$690 million vere on public
debt and US$250 million on commercial debt and invisibles. The budget-
ary deficit expanded, too, to about twice the level of 1981 (in nominal
terms), and vas equivalent to about 10 percent of GDP.  After recover-
ing by 2.4 percent a year in 1980 and 1981, GDP contracted marginally
(by about 1 percent) in 1982; the inflation rate edged upvard, averag-
ing 37 percent; and the exchange rate came under strong pressure, the
spread between the parallel market rate and the official exchange rate
cf the zaire rising to 3.5 to 1.
Government Action
9.        In mid-1981, in conjunction with the medium-term program sup-
ported by the EFF (paragraph 7), the Zairian authorities took a number
cf interrelated steps toward stimulating supply, keeping the growth of
demand vithin appropriate limits, and improving foreign exchange mana-
gement: the zaire vas devalued by a further 40 percent vis-i-vis the
SDR; interest rates vere adjusted upward; and the existing price con-
trols on most goods vere removed in order to stimulate the private
sector.   In addition to completing a revised PIP for 1981-83, Zaire
began preparing an Agricultural Recovery Plan designed to bring about
improvements in the folloving areas:   (i) strengthening of institu-
tions;  (il) pollcies  for  pricing,  marketing,  credit,  and  foregn
exchange allocation;  (iii) implementation of on-going projects; (iv)
investment prograxming for the sector; and (v) research, extension and
training. The Recovery Plan vas discussed at a meeting of the Consul-
tative Group for Zaire held in June 1982.   The Zairian authorities
cooperated with the IMF and the Bank in the preparation of a fiscal
study which comprised the budgetary process, (with emphasis on the
control over expenditures), tax reform and the tax regime of G-camines
(the state-owned company producing most of Zaire's copper and all of
its cobalt). This study vas completed in May 1982, and since then, a
number of reforms recommended by the study have been adopted by the
Government.
10.        In 1982, Zaire made additional attempts to improve economic
management and institutional performance. The Ministry of Agriculture
was significantly reorganized as part of a broad program of institu-
tional reforms for the sector.   The Government appointed new, more
broadly-based Executive Boards for GÈcamines and SOZACOM (the state-



- 4 -
owned company marketing tbe bulk of GÈcamines' output); important
changes vere made in the top management of GÈcamines; and a nev market-
ing arrangement between the two firms vas approved. Furthermore, the
Goverument announced the decision to privatize- the ownership and/or
management of 37 public enterprises, and it further relaxed the remain-
ing price controls.   The Government proceeded at the same time to
implement a policy of 'decentralization whose apparent objective is to
give Zaire's regions more autonomy.
11.        The year 1983 witnessed more systematic efforts to reestab-
lish the conditions for recovery.   First, in order to facilitate the
negotiation of a new agreement with the IMF, Zaire implemented a
'shadow program for six months, focused on reducing the budgetary def-
icit and lmproving financial management. Second, as part of a program
of major changes affecting the mining sector, the tax regime applying
to GÈcamines vas substantially revamped in line with the recommenda-
tions of the IMF/Bank study referred to above (paragraph 9). Third, in
September 1983, Zaire started implementing a series of economic and
financial measures as a prelude to a formal agreement vith the IMF and
a debt rescheduling linked to it.  In support of these measures, in
December 1983, the IMF approved a 15-month Stand-by Arrangement in an
amount of SDR 228 million (US$246 million), equivalent to 100 percent
of quota. The IMF approved concurrently the purchase of SDR 114.5 mil-
lion (US$124 million) under the Compensatory Financing Facility. This
vas immediately followed by a meeting of the Paris Club at which the
creditors agreed to reschedule outstanding arrears and maturities fal-
ling due in 1984 at terms compatible vith the IMF agreement.  In the
meantime, the authorities prepared an Interim Economic Recovery Program
which brought together under the same framework the program of economic
and financial adjustment and an updated three-year public investment
program.   The Interim Program vas presented to a meeting of the Con-
sultative Group which vas held on December 21-22, 1983. The partici-
pants concurred vith the appropriateness of the measures taken by Zaire
as vell as vith the priorities of the publie investment program, and
indicated their willingness to increase their support to Zaire in the
medium term.
12.          The adjustment measures announced in September 1983 and
Lzcorporated in the IMF program comprise the following: (i) the imme-
diate devaluation of the zaire by about 80 percent vis-‡-vis the US
dollar; (ii) the introduction of a transitional dual exchange rate
regime consisting of an official rate and a free market rate, leading
to the unification of the two rates (i.e., a total 'float") in February
19842/; (iii) a substantial liberalization and simplification of the
exehange and trade system as a whole; (iv) a comprehensive revision of
customs duties involving significant reductions in tariffs on essential
foodstuffs, raw materials and intermediate goods and major increases on
luxury goods; (v) a considerable adjustment and liberalization of the
interest rate structure, including the lifting of all administrative
2/ The two rates vere unified on February 24, 1984 at US$1 = Z 33.0.



- 5 -
controls on lending rates of commercial banks (except for those appli-
cable to the non-coffee agriculture sector, for which they are 15 per-
cent); (vi) the further decontrol of prices, including producer prices
of all agricultural commodities; (vii) the adjustment of petroleum pri-
ces to take full account of the change in the exchange rate: and (viii)
the decision to limit vage increases in the public sector to about 40
percent through 1984, vell below the estimated rate of inflation. The
objective of the program is to improve Zaire's balance of payments
position and to begin reviving the economy. On the fiscal side, the
program aies at eliminating the budgetary deficit (not counting exter-
nal debt payments)  in  1984,  thus bringing down  substantially net
governeent borrowing from the domestie banking system.
13.         Zaire's latest public investment program covers the years
1983-85. The thrust of the program continues to be rehabilitation of
existing capacity and infrastructure.   The new program represents a
step forvard in several respects.  In particular, it is the result of
an attempt for the first time to tailor the program to resource avail-
abilities using a macroeconomic scenario. It is 13 percent smaller (in
zeal terms) than its predecessor for that reason and the projects have
been selected with a v4gw to minimizing foreign exchange requirements.
As a result, the new program's external financing gap (US$290 million
over 1983-85) is mich smaller than that of the last one in both abso-
lute and relative terns. Furthermore, the program is consistent with
both the stabilization program and the investment budget for 1984.  The
program has benefitted from a continued effort by the Zairian authori-
ties since 1979 to identify and either improve or eliminate problem
projects. The monitoring effort vas strengthened in 1982 and 1983 and
is to be intensified with the on-goaing introduction of a new project
control and supervision system and strengthened inter-ministerial coor-
dination. At the Consultative Group meeting held in December 1983, the
participants took two important steps relevant to the execution of the
Public Investment Program. They agreed on the appropriateness of con-
vening co-lender meetings on transport (highways) and GEcamines, and
they endorsed Zaire's decision to reactivate the External Resources
Coordination Comsittee (which had not met for about two years% partly
in order to review progress in providing Zaire vith assistance, finan-
cial and technical, required in the crucial and difficult years ahead.
The colenders meeting on highways vas held successfully on March 4,
1985; the meeting on Gecamines is currently scheduled for the fall of
1985.
Current Situation and Direction
14.       The economic situation continued to improve in 1984, aided by
some favorable external developments, and Zaire's effort to implement
both the debt rescheduling agreement and the IMF program.   Export
earnings are estimated to have increased by nearly 20 percent in
nominal terns despite the sharp drop of copper prices, because of
larger receipts from cobalt, diamonds, coffee, and petroleum.   The
export gain has, however, been partly offset by the larger external
debt payments which Zaire has been making in compliance vith the debt
rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club. But, Zaire has benefitted



- 6 -
from larger purchases f rom the IMF, as vell as increased external
capital diabursements. Based on preliminary data, merchandise imports
in 19'4 registered some increase in real terms for the first time since
1980.  The budgetary deficit vas in the order of three percent CDP
(compared to four percent in 1983), a result obtained at the cost of
limiting nominal vage increases vell below the inflation rate.   The
sharp decline in inflation vas by far the most dramatic change in
1984. The average inflation rate dropped from 76 percent in 1983 to an
estimated 52 percent in 1984. During the December 1983-December 1984
period, the consumer price Index in Kinshasa rose by only 17 percent,
in marked contrast to the increase of 100 percent registered in the
preceding 12 months.  During 1984, according to preliminary estimates,
Zaire's GDP grev by about 2.5 percent, compared to 1.2 percent in 1983
and -2.2 percent in 1982.
15.        Zaire's exports are expected to improve in the next three
years assuming a recovery of copper prices, but the resource
constraints vill remain severe, in part because of the external public
debt burden. The latest Paris Club agreement affects only arrears and
1984 maturities; although as a result of the agreement the debt service
ratio in 1984 has been reduced to 18 percent, the contractual debt
service due in 1985-89 is equivalent to nearly 35 percent of projected
exports of goods and nonfactor services - a ratio which seemsincompa-
tible with even a modest economic recovery. Moreover, as a result of
the sharp drop in commitments over the last few years, the undisbursed
project pipeline - the source of future disbursements - han been
reduced to US$540 million by end 1984, compared to USS1.2 billion in
1975. While the donors have indicated their disposition to increase
their aid to Zaire progressively, this will take time and depend on the
improvement of external confidence.
16.        Overall, Zaire seems In a better position to make progress
than two years ago for several reasons.   First, the measures taken
recently, with the possible exception of the hasty creation of a
central procurenent agency for all parastatals, are more comprehensive,
more coherent, and better prepared than before. A case in point is the
adoption of the new fiscal regime for GÈ&amines, which enables both the
Government and the company to improve resource planning, and the
revision of the Customs Code to complement changes in the exchange rate
regime.   Second, some of the improvement which has taken place,
especially in the budgetary sphere in 1983, is structural in nature:
some expenditures have been curtailed for good (e.g. through efforts to
rationalize the government payroll); and some categories of revenues
(e.g. customs, tax contributions by G&camines) have received a
permanent boost through the exchange rate adjustment.
17.          Developments since 1983 represent a net and substantial
improvement, and Zaire has met most of its obligations towards the
IMF, and complied with the Paris Club agreement. Stabilization efforts
are expected to continue under a new stand-by arrangement for the equi-
valent of SDR 162 million over twelve months, approved by the IMF in
April 1985.   Medium term prospects remain, however, severely con-
strained by a number of structural and financial difficulties: weak



- 7 -
commodity prices, declining aid flows, and the 'external debt burden
(para. 15). Any recovery and development scenario crucially depends on
the continued efficacy of short-term maacroeconomÔc management, as this
is key to creating the confidence needed for an expansion Gf commit-
ments or flrther debt rescheduling.  Short-term efforts should, bow-
ever, be completed by adequate sector-specific, production-oriented
policies in the context of ledium-term sector strategies.  Finally, the
pace of recovery vill also be determined by the willingness of the
donors/creditors to show increased flexibility to adjust their assist-
ance to changed circumstances and needs, or to reduce the reaction
time.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
18.         From 1969 to date, the Association has approved 38 credits
totalling about US$580.0 million for agriculture, transport, develop-
ment finance company operations, vater supply, power, petroleum techni-
cal assistance and education projects. The Bank Group has also exten-
ded grants totalling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two
planning assistance projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan
of US$100 million for the Gecamines Mining ExpAnsion Project, which was
cofinanced by the European Investuent Bank and by the Libyan Arab
Foreign Bank, and which provided for special repayment arrangements
linked to the project's export earnings. A Technical Assistance Credit
vas approved in 1983 to assist Gecamines with its efforts to restruc-
ture its organization, improve its manpower and prepare a long-term
rehabilitation aod expansion program.   The IFC, which has a US$1.3
million equity participation in the SociÈt&  FinanciËre de DÈveloppement
Economique (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million lo'an in 1978 for an off-
shore oil production project, and a US$230,000 loan in 1982 for studies
related to the development of an aluminium complex at Banana. In 1985,
IFC has approved a US$6.25 million loan to, and a US$528,000 equity
participation in a textile company (SOTEXKI); a US$15.0 million loan to
the  Grands Rotels du Zaire-; and a US$100,000 equity participation in
a cotton farming operation. Annex Il contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1985.
19.        A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been
institution building.   The development finance company (SOFIDE) 'vas
established in 1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA. The major trans-
port agencies, ONATRA, Soci'tÈ Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
(SNCZ), RÈgie des Voies Fluviales (RVF), RÈgie des Voies Maritimes
(RVM) and Office des Routes (OR), bave received technical and financial
assistance  from  the Association,  whiich  also  helped  establish  the
National Livestock Development Authority (ONDE). In the case of Geca-
mines, the Bank loan originated a dialogue, still ongoing and now
supported by a technical assistance credit, intended to define ways and
means to strengthen the management, financial position and planning of
the company.



- 8 -
20.       Project implementation has been satisfactory in spite of
difficulties resulting from the country's inadequate manpower and mana-
gement capability and, in recent years, because of the economic
crisis. In the last two or three years, release of the required
budgetary funds has been difficult periodically because of budgetary
constraints. Lack of foreign exchange to finance spare parts and fuel,
and the deterioration of the transport network and marketing system
have resulted in severe supply problems for most projects. Recruiting
and retaining adequate staff has also been difficult.  In January 1980
the Bank undertook with Zairian officials an overall review of Bank
Group projects which, for the flrst time, provided an integrated view
of implementation problems; this resulted in an acceleration and impro-
vement in the utilization of Bank Group assistance, particularly in the
agricultural sector. A second overall review, focussing on macro-
economie and sectoral issues and on their impact on project implementa-
tion, took place in Mav 1983 and assisted the Government in formulating
the important economic measures of September 1983 (para. 12).
21.       Sixteen credits and one loan have been totally disbursed.
Completion reports have been issued for all projects. Performance
Audit Reports have been issued for the First SOFIDE, the First, Second
and ThÓrd Righway Projects, the River Transport Project, the Rail/River
Project and the First Education Project. The conclusion of the audit
and completion reports was that the Bank Group's impact on institution
building had been mixed. All project entities had encountered operat-
ing difficulties beyond their control as the economy deteriorated,
financial resources grew scarcer and the problems besetting the invest-
ment environment were exacerbated by the Government's zairianization/
radicalization measures. Nonetheless, effective administrations had
evolved in REGIDESO, SOFIDE and the Office des Routes, the highway
agency. Performance of ONATRA, the port and river transport agency,
had not improved as a result of the first River Transport Project but
did improve under the Rail/River Project. More attention to institution
building activities would have been beneficial in the education sector;
administrative veaknesses in the Department of Education vere cited as
partly responsible for poor performance under the First Project and the
inability to implement investment components under the Second Education
Project which resulted in cancellation of US$18.8 million in February
1983.  In the case of GÈcamines, the delay in project implementation
and reorientation of project scope from expansion/rehabilitation to
rehabilitation only vere not attributable to institutional veaknesses,
but rather to a combination of external forces (copper price decline,
Shaba invasion) and domestic economic crisis; nevertheless, positive
results vere achieved in the areas of tax reform, marketing and
management through the dialogue established under the Expansion
Project and continuing under a Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1336-
ZR). Partly as a result of the project, Gecamines production had
returned to the full capacity level. Bank Group support to all of the
above mentioned entities is continuing through follow-on projects



- 9 -
designed to address the issues raised by the completion and audit
reports.
22.       The rate of disbursement to Zaire (19 percent for fiscal
years 1982-84) is average for the Eastern Africa Region. While dis-
bursement performance in general is satisfactory, difficulties have
arisen in several projects. In the case of early credits for trans-
port, education and livestock (Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR), the
lack of a strong project entity caused implementation delays. Economic
conditions vere also a factor in sloving project programs in instances
where government counterpart funds vere not available (Third Highway,
Credit 660-ZR; Second Education, Credit 624-ZR) and where the invest-
ment environment experienced slow recovery from the aftermath of abrupt
nationalization (Fourth SOFIDE, Credit 710-ZR). Future project imple-
mentation should be less affected by the above influences given the
strengthening of institutions under subsequent projects and efforts by
the Governient to improve budgetary support of IDA-financed projects.
As of June 30, 1984, the Bank Group's share of Zaire's total debt dis-
bursed and outstanding vas about 6 percent.
23.       In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have
been directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development
of the agriculture, industry/mining and transport sectors, in part
through the design and implementation of appropriate new policies.
Initial efforts in support of the energy sector include the Shaba Pover
System Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1224-ZR) and the Ruzizi Il Regional
Hydroelectric Pover Project (Cr. 1421-ZR). Our lending vill continue
to assist the development of the agriculture sector vithin the frame-
vork of the new Agricultural Recovery Plan (see para. 9 above); to
promote the development of the industrial and mining sectors; and to
support the transport sector. In addition, further support will be
considered for the energy sector to develop pover, and to minimize the
cost of supplying petroleum products to the country.  An Education
Technical Assistance and Training Project to improve the management of
the education sector and relevance of education programs vas recently
approved. Preparation is under way for an industrial sector credit
which would assist the Government in identifying and implementing
priority policy changes in the sector, and finance imports of spare
parts and essential equipment; a technical assistance project to
improve investment planning, budgetary procedures, and parastatal
management; and a rehabilitation project for Gecamines.
PART III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
24.       General.  Zaire covers about 2.3 million km2, and has con-
siderable agricultural potential. Straddling both sides of the equa-
tor, the country falls into four major ecological zones: (i) rain
forest -cuvette centrale-; (ii) mixed forest and savannah; (iii)
savannah belts; and (iv) tropical uplands. Though about 30-35 percent
of the total land area is estimated suitable for agricultural develop-
ment, only about 5 percent is currently under cultivation or developed



- 10 -
as ranches.  A wide variety of agricultural commodities are grown in
Zaire. The major staple food crops are cassava, maize, rice, bananas,
and beans. The most important industrial crops are cotton, palm oil,
and sugarcane, while export crops include coffee, tea, rubber, and
cocoa.   The livestock sub-sector comprises cattle as well as small
ruminants and poultry; insects and fish are another important source of
animal protein for the local population.   Zaire's forestry resources
are  considerable,  but  remain  largely  untapped.    Rural  population
density is highest in the savannah belts and tropical uplands, and the
population growth rate is estimated at between 2.2 to 2.8 percent per
annum. Rural per capita income, about US $110, is among the lowest in
Africa.
25.        Production Trends.  Agriculture provides direct employment
and support for 70 to 75 percent of the active population, as well as
to an additional 10 percent employed in agro-industrial processing .
Its share of GDP has stagnated in recent years at around 30 percent,
while agricultural exports have decreased in both absolute and relative
terms. In 1968, an estimated 433,000 tons of agricultural commodities
vere exported, representing about 18 percent of the value of total
exports; in 1981, these figures had decreased to 146,000 tons and 10
percent, respectively. During this same period, agricultural imports,
in particular food imports, increased to represent about 10 percent of
total imports in 1981, with maize, wheat, meat, fish, and sugar being
major  import  items.    This disappointing performance  stems from a
variety of factors, including:   (i) difficult transport conditions;
(ii) inadequate or unclear marketing and pricing policies; (iii) weak
agricultural institutions; and (iv) limited resources devoted to the
sector.
26.        Recognizing the adverse impact Government policies and weak
sector management vere having on sector performance, the Government
began implementing an Agricultural Recovery Plan in 1982 (para. 9)
which addressed the major veaknesses outlined above. Although it is
too early to draw definite conclusions on the impact of this program
(data are incomplete and often unreliable), agricultural production
appears to be recovering, albeit slowly. Foodcrop production appears
to have grown roughly in line vith rural population growth; production
increases have been recorded for industrial crops such as sugar and
palm oil; and marketed meat production has shown a sharp increase.
Within the foodcrop subsector, maize production increases have been
particularly strong (about 10 percent in 1983 over 1982 levels), which
should have a positive impact on the food import bill.
27.        Cultivation methods.  The level of technology deteriorated
since the early 1970's due to economic difficulties. Applied techno-
logy in food-crop cultivation remains below levels already obtained in
the past, due to the lack of inputs, particularly fertilizer and seeds
of good quality, and lack of price incentives for small farmers.  In
areas with better agricultural services and input supply, farmers have
reacted strongly by improving husbandry techniques. Sustained growth
in the agricultural sector requires, inter alia, strengthening the ins-
titutions responsible for agricultural research, and supply of improved
seeds, activities currently given high priority in Coverument planning.



- il -
28.       Structure of Production.  Modern (large-farm) and traditional
(small-farm) production systems coexist in Zaire's agricultural sec-
tor. About 40 percent of agriculture's share of GDP is contributed by
the modern sector, and about 60 percent by the traditional/subsistence
sector. Tho modern farm sector is composed of large, corporation-owned
plantations as well as individually owned farms and ranches. The prin-
cipal conmodities produced are palm oil, sugar, rubber, tobacco,
coffee, cocoa, and cattle. Modern sector output has declined since
independence due to nationalization measures in the mid-1970s, the
general economic crisis and shortage of foreign exchange, and the low
priority given to agricultural investment by the Government. The
small-farm sector comprises an estimated 3 to 4 million farming units.
A bush-fallow production system predominates, and farming techniques
rely on hand labor and simple tools. The principal crops grown are
cassava, maize, rice, bananas, beans, cotton, groundnuts, coffee and
tropical fruits. The traditional sector also accounts for about 60
percent of the national cattle herd.
29.       Sector Issues.  The Government of Zaire has in the past
sought to regulate and control the marketing and pricing of many agri-
cultural products. Governuent measures have often had a negative
impact on production and marketing, as local authorities frequently
intervened to hold prices down and to impede the circulation of goods
across regional borders. Recognizing the costs of contradictory and
unclear policies in this area, the Government began a gradual process
of liberalization in 1981, culminating in 1983 in the complete freeing
of producer prices and abolition of local authorities' rights to inter-
vene in this area. Complementing price liberalization efforts, the
Government also moved to eliminate regional barriers to trade, freeing
the circulation of agricultural goods vithin the country. While these
measures are too recent to permit a comprehensive evaluation, preli-
minary information indicates that they are having a powerful impact on
production and marketing.
30.       Another issue which has particular significance for agricul-
tural development in Zaire is the role of the Agricultural Extension
Service.  Since its establishment before Independence, the Agricultural
Extension Service has operated as an enforcer of norms set by the
Department of Agriculture (DADR); farmers who did not cultivate the
surface area stipulated by DADR were subject to fines. Known as
imposed cultivation', this practice was originally introduced to
encourage the production of export crops such as cotton; it has per-
sisted to varying degrees in different parts of the country, particu-
larly where there is competition between cash and food crops. This
approach has resulted in the farmers' aversion to dealing vith exten-
sion agents and to accepting the technical packages they try to dif-
fuse. Government has agreed to phase out this practice (Development
Credit Agreement for the IDA financed Lulua Agricultural Development
Project, approved on January 8, 1985). Inadequate links vith agricul-
tural research, and the limited supply of improved seeds have com-
pounded this problem. These related issues are nov receiving greater



- 12 -
attention through emphasis on the definition of an agricultural
research strategy, and the improvement of the National Commodity
Programs (para. 33). These prograus, which have supported farm systems
research, could help reorient the extention services froim crop-related
tovard farm-related interventions. Other important issues are veak
sector management and delays in budgetary contributions to projects.
With IDA assistance, Government has undertaken an action plan to
improve financial management in the Ministry and the projects.
31.       Sectoral Institutions.  Traditionally, the role of Government
institutions in promoting and regulating agricultural development in
Zaire vas relatively limited while the private sector dominated the
development of modern agricultural activities. In the mid-70's, the
Governuent tried to expand its role but with little success - in fact,
causing considerable disruptions to the sector. More recently, the
Governuent has established and begun to implement a new agricultural
policy relying essentially on the private sector (para. 29). The
Department of Agriculture and Rural Develoixent (DADR) is responsible
for agricultural policy, extension services, crop and veterinary ser-
vices, technical supervision of parastatal institutions, rural water
supply and cooperative development. It has recently been reorganized
and is receiving technical assistance support under an IDA financed
project.
32.       Other Government agencies which provide services to
agri cultural and rural development include:  the Department of Primary
and Secondary Education and the Department of Higher Education and
Scientific Research, vhich provide agricultural education and agricul-
tural research services; the Department of Public Works and its opera-
tional arm, the Roads Authority, which are responsible for developing
and maintaining a large part of the national road network; and regional
and local authorities, which are responsible for rural road main-
tenance. In addition, a number of parastatal institutions have res-
ponsibilities for agricultural production, marketing, and regulations.
The private sector is playing an increasingly important role in pro-
viding extension and road maintenance services. Credit to the sector
is provided by SOFIDE (a development finance institution), the Agricul-
tural Credit Bank, and a para-fiscal system known as Development Agree-
ment Funds.
33.       Agricultural Research. Research on foodcrops, perennial
crops, and livestock is the responsibility of the National Institute
for Agronomic Studies and Research (INERA). Four National Commodities
Programs (maize, cassava, rice, and grain legumes) are also engaged in
applied research in collaboration with international research insti-
tutes, and in the diffusion of results in collaboration with develop-
ment agencies. INERA suffers from weak management, lack of funds, an
inadequate salary structure, a deteriorating physical infrastructure,
and an unbalanced staff structure where qualified researchers are few,
and non-research personnel excessive. These difficult circumstances
are compounded by the lack of a clear distribution of responsibilities
between concerned agencies: INERA vas moved from DADR to the Departuent
of Righer Education and Research (DES) in 1982, while the National Cor-



- 13 -
modities Programs continue to report to DADR. To clarify the situa-
tion, an interministerial comnittee vas established in 1984 to for-
muleLe, vith assistance from the International Service for National
Research (ISNAR), a long-term development plan for agricultural re-
search. Its recommendations have been approved by DADR and DES in
early 1985, and vill be submitted to the Executive Council. They aim at
strengthening and harmonizing all agricultural research activities,
vith a view to unifying them under a single structure. By June 30,
1986, Government vould submit to the Association an action program for
the implementation of the ISNAR report recommendations (Section 3.06 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
34.       Government Sector Strategy.  The Agricultural Recovery Plan
(para. 9) constitutes the basic statement of government strategy for
agricultural development in Zaire. Its main objectives are: (i) to
make the country self-sufficient in food crops; (ii) to increase the
production of crops used as raw materials by local industries; and
(iii) to increase export crop production.  For the short- and medium-
term, the priorities vill be foodcrop development through recovery of
smallholder production, and rehabilitation and maintenance of existing
production capacity. Measures designed to achieve the Government's
objectives in the sector include establishing clear procedures for
cabinet level coordination of agricultural policy; reinforcing DADR's
capacity to plan, prepare, and implement projects more effectively; and
strengthening DADR's policy-making capabilities. Although it is diffi-
cult to assess the impact of recent measures on agricultural production
at this early stage, the Plan represents a realistic and significant
step to address the most important institutional and policy issues
vhich have hindered production in the past. Evaluation of the Agricul-
tural Recovery Plan is currently underway and is expected to provide
valuable inputs for the preparation of the forthcoming five-year eco-
nomic plan (1986-1990).
PART IV. TRE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project vas identified by FAO and IDA, and pre-
pared in March 1984. It vas appraised by IDA in June-July 1984.
Negotiations vere held in Washington from April 29 to May 3, 1985.
Mr. Lendo Muanda, ChargÈ d'Affaires in the Zairian Embassy in
Washington, led the Zairian delegation. A report entitled 'Staff
Appraisal Report, Zaire, Seeds Project-, No. 5427-ZR, is being dis-
tributed separately. A supplementary data sheet is provided in Annex
III.
36.       Background.  Planting material today comes mostly from the
farmers' own seeds, a continually degenerating stock. Even if farmers
vere to renew their seeds every four or five years by buying con-
trolled, or improved quality, seeds, the existing seeds production
capacity vould be largely insufficient to meet such demand. Seed pro-
duction today consists of small scale, scattered, and uncoordinated
activities, vith little attention given to quality. During Project
preparation, private operators vere kept involved and informed. They



- 14 -
have, however, in general declined any direct financial participation
until they are satisfied with the future direction of a seed industry
in Zaire and the establishment of a proper institutional environuent
for this industry. By putting in place such an environment, improving
seed quality control, establishing appropriate marketing policies,
promoting seed sales at realistic price levels, and guaranteeing base
seed production, the Project would aim at encouraging, and gradually
enlarging private sector participation in an area currently largely
neglected.
37.       Project Objectives.  The main objective of the proposed pro-
ject is to increase food production (a key element in the Government's
agricultural strategy) through better availability of controlled seeds
for major foodcrops. The impact of actions undertaken under the Agri-
cultural Recovery Plan (para. 9), such as farmers' training and modern-
ization of cultivation techniques, would be severely limited vithout
the availability of sufficient quantities of seeds of acceptable
quality. The use of controlled seeds, produced under the project,
would help to increase production, thus contributing to a gradual
reduction of imports and moving Zaire closer to its goal of food self-
sufficiency. A related, though longer term, objective is the gradual
development of the institutional framework necessary to promote the
seed industry and to attract private sector participation. To meet
these objectives, the proposed Project foeuses on the technical, mana-
gerial, and institutional aspects of seed production. It has been
designed with a view to maintaining the flexibility necessary to adjust
policies to experience gained during implementation, and to adapt to
local conditions.
38.       Expected Results.   Seed production in the fifth project year
would increase to a total of 2,200 tons for five main fooderops, in-
cluding maIze which would represent about 70 percent of total produc-
tion. This amount would represent about 20 percent of the projected
minimal requirements for quality seeds during the fifth project year.
Yields are expected ta increase by 30-50 percent through the use of
controlled seeds. Although yields depend to a great extent on hus-
bandry measures applied by farmers, it is expected that those farmers
who buy seed at market prices would be equally receptive to advice frenm
improved agricultural extension, which would accompany the marketing
activities.
39.       Project Components.  The proposed project would include the
following elements: (a) establishment of a National Seed Bureau;
(b) development of five seed farms; (c) assistance to ather seed faras;
(d) development of a seed quality cc.-.trol system; (e) assistance to
research stations; (f) staff training; Lg) special studies and pilot
projects; and (h) provision of technical assistance.
40.       Designed to cover a five-year period, the proposed project
would constitute the first phase of the long term plan for the develop-
ment of a seed industry. In particular, the proposed project would
help gain a better understanding of the operational aspects of esta-
blishing a controlled seed production system in Zaire (institutional



- 15 -
constraints, marketing practices, staff training, and gradual integra-
tion of the private sector).  Project activities would be closely co-
ordinated with on-going rural development activities in order to dif-
fuse effectively the uses of controlled seeds.   Seed farms would be
organized along commercial lines, with a view to transfering them to
the private sector once their viabillty has been established.
Detailed Features
41.       National Seed Bureau (BUNASEM).  In May 1984, the Government
established BUNASEM, an agency vithin the Ministry of Agriculture with
a large degree of autonomy in technical matters.   Its mandate is to
implement a national program aimed at improving the supply of base
seeds, the operations of selected seed faros, and seed quality con-
trol. The project would provide BUNASEN with the technical, human, and
financial means to organize its activities and operations, set up its
management systems, determine it role and relations vis-‡-vis the other
institutions involved in seed production (research programs, seed
farms, development projects, and the private sector), and develop its
work programs and budget estimates to implement the project.  BUNASEM
vould first undertake an action program to strengthen its institutional
capabilities. It would establish three departments (operations, admi-
nistration, and sales promotion), and a monitoring and control unit
(Schedule 4, para. 2 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
operations department would coordinate and develop seeds production;
the administration department would help to set up administrative and
logistical relations with seed faras and vould provide assistance in
the establishment of accouating, and management information systems;
and the sales promotion department would define and diffuse effective
marketing policies. BUNASEM would progressively become an independent
regulatory agency for the seed industry (para. 54).
42.          Development of Five Seed Farms.  The project would help
expand seeds production by supporting two existing seed farms in Bas-
Zaire, and Kasai Oriental, and by establishing  three new  ones i7-
Bandundu, Shaba an' Haut-Zaire.  All f arms would be located in the
major foodcrop production areas.   The seed farms would obtaia their
base seeds from the research centers, or the National Commodity Pro-
grams (para. 33). They would produce controlled seeds on their own, or
contract production out to skilled farmers.  As actual expertise in
seed production technology is limited, the outgrowers program would be
expanded gradually, after each seed farm has established satisfactorily
its own organization. Due to their prohibitively high transport costs,
production and distribution of cassava cuttings would be decentralized
to satellite farms scattered around the seed farmrs, and operated by
selected progressive farmers.
43.       In view of the project's goal to assist the Governmment deve-
lop a self-sustaining and commercially viable seed industry, management
of the seed farms would be contracted to private enterprises, (e.g.,
SOTEXCO in Haut Zaire and the Kikwit Agricultural Development Company
in Bandudu). When private operators are not present or interested in
the seed farm region, the management units of existing development pro-



- 16 -
jects would contract for seed farm management. Private operators would
acquire interest and expertise in the seed farms, and would be given a
preferential option to participate vith equity, or to buy the eeed
farms. BUNASEN would supervise the execution of such management agree-
ments to ensure continuous production and distribution of quality seed
to the farming population.   The project would provide the necessary
management and technical assistance to facilitate the progressive
transfer of operations to the private sector. Sales promotion would be
undertaken both at the central and regional level. The project would
al8o provide assistance in starting up extension and marketing programs
where these do not exist (e.g. Bas-Zaire), or in strengthening those
which are on-going (e.g. Kasai-Oriental).   The long term objective
would be to expand the market for improved seeds, through a pricing
strategy based on seed farm costs and local distribution rather than
central governaent regulations.  The seed f aras would be managed by
enterprises and agencies satisfactory to IDA (Schedule 4, para. 3 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). Prices would be set so as to
cover full operating costs (Section 3.05 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
44.       Assistance to Other Seed-Farms.  This component vould provide
technical assistance and some equipment for the development of seed
farsm  not mainly f inanced by the project.  These facilities -  rural
development projects, and religious centers within agricultural deve-
lopment programs - have already initiated or are planning to start
limited seed production activities.  The project would help them iden-
tify and eliminate production constraints, through the provision of
technical assistance for seed processing and storage, and the improve-
ment of seed quality. This would further decentralize the seed produc-
tion system, reduce transport costs, and thus make improved seeds
affordable to a greater number of farmers.
45.        Seed Quality Control.  The project would support BUNASEM and
the seed farms to fully develop a capacity for seed quality control.
Existing control activities are mostly limited to controlling the ger-
mination capacity of seeds, and in a few cases to field controls on
genetic  purity.    Seed  certification  normally  requires  that  crop
varieties be registered and described in an officially approved cata-
logue, and that the certifying agency be empowered to conduct varietal
tests during subsequent years under various ecological conditions, as
vell as field and factory inspections at seed production centers. Such
a system does not exist in Zaire at present. While it would take
several years for such a system to become operational, the project
vould provide funds for preparing its establishment.  Before the system
is in place, seed quality could be improved by elementary laboratory
control tests and the standardization of field controls.  The project
would provide funds for the establishment of this capacity in BUNASEM.
46.       Assistance to Research Stations would focus on improving the
production capacity for base seeds, as their assured supply is of vital
importance for the seed production centers. The Government is current-
ly improving the agricultural research structure (para. 33) and
strengthening the National Commodity Programs through provision of spe-



- 17 -
cialized personnel to produce breeder seeds and some base seeds. These
prograns do not, however, provide sufficient infrastructure to produce
and store base seeds in the quantities and of a quality needed by the
pioposed project. Therefore, BUNASEM on one side, the research insti-
tutes and commodity programs on the other would enter into agreements
outlining the obligations of each party to ensure the production of the
required base seeds (Schedule 4, para. 4 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). In particular, the proposed project would provide
assistance to strengthen rice seed multiplication at the Mavunzi
research station.
47.       Studies and Pilot Projects.   The Project would include
stvdies: (i) to define marketing strategies; (ii) to determine the
potential for producing maize hybrid seeds and its possible impact on
the seed industry in Zaire; and (iii) to analyze the conditions and
make recommendations for incorporating more rapidly the private sector
in the production and marketing of seeds.   Pilot projects would
include: (i) a pilot test at the Kasese farm to establish the
appropriate techniques to continue seed production at this farm, and
<ii) a test of the production and sale of farmers packages (minikits)
consistir.g of fertilizer, controlled seeds, herbicides and pesticides,
in order to promote the regular purchase and optimal use of improved
seeds by small farmers. In addition, the project vould finance, as
needed, short-term assistance by outside consultants to put in place a
cost accounting system for BUNASEM and the seed farms, to establish a
monitoring system, and to carry out evaluation studies of the project
impact. Finally, the project would finance preparatory work for a
second phase of the program, as vell as for a gradual evolution of
BUNASEN into an independent regulatory body.
48.       Professional Training.  The scarcity of individuals experi-
enced in the management of seed farms, seed production, and seed tech-
nology, constitutes a major constraint to the development of an ade-
quate seed production structure. In the past, a few training programs
were undertaken by the National Maize Program (PNM), but these were
more oriented to research work or general agronomy than to seed tech-
nology or seed farm management. On-the-job, in country, and overseas
training vould therefore be a major feature of the project, to help
develop an indigenous capacity to manage the seed industry in Zaire.
About 620 persons (including 25 individuals overseas) would be trained
over a five-year period in farm management, financial management, seed
farm administration, technology of seed production and processing, use
and maintenance of equipment, laboratory operation, and seed market-
ing. Refresher courses would also be organized in order to establish a
continuous training sysrem.
49.       Technical Assistance. The project would finance interna-
tional specialists to assist BUNASEN and the seed production centers in
seed production technology, institutional and farm management, seed
quality control and seed market development. At BUNASEM headquarters,
three specialists financed by the project (one seed production techno-
logist, one management/financial specialist, and one seed marketing
specialist) would help to organize the Bureau (para. 41) during the



- 18 -
firet f ive years of operations. These specialists vould vork vith
BUNASEM's Director and his senior staff to: (i) develop a central
structure capable of coordinating and supporting seed production acti-
vities undertaken by research stations and seed farms; (il) establish
management and accounting systems that would facilitate the transfer of
seed production responsibility to the private sector; and (iii) develop
a seed quality control system and legal framework conducive to the
development of an independent seed industry in the long run.  At the
level of the seed production centers, the assistance of seed production
specialists le envisaged, as and when needed, for up to five years, or
until key staff of each center is sufficiently experienced to carry out
its management task.
Project Costs and Financing
50.       Total project costs at the base date of January 1985 For the
five year implementation period (mid-1986 to mld-1991) have been esti-
mated at US$21.3 million, of which USS12.5 million, or 59 percent,
would be in foreign exchange.   Local inflation rate vas projected to
decrease from 35 percent in 1986 to 25 percent in 1987, and following
year6.   International price contingencies were estimated at 7 percent
for 1986, and 8 percent for 1987-1990.   Physical contingencies of 6
percent have been added, except for staff and equipment for which quan-
tities are not expected to change. No increases are expected in areas
to be planted at the seed f arms.   If such £nereases vere to prove
necessary to meet increased demand for seeds, they vould be financed
out of revenues f rom seed sales. Taxes on imported goods procured
locally are estimated at US$60,000, or less than one percent of project
costs.
51.       The financing of project costs would be shared by the Govern-
ment of Zaire (10 percent), sales to farmers (para. 57) during years
2-5 of the project (Il percent), UNDP (9 percent), and IDA (70 per-
cent). The proposed IDA credit of US$14.9 million, and UNDP grant of
US$l.9 million would cover 100 percent of f oreign costs and 49 percent
of local costs. Local cost financing is justified by the Government's
difficult budgetary situation.  The three-year agreement between UNDP
and goverument was signed in February 1985, with FAO as executing
agency.  UNDP is expected to renew the agreement when it expires.  A
cross-default clause links the proposed IDA credit and UNDP grant
(Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
52.        As Goverument vill have difficulty in pre-financing expendi-
tures to be reimbursed under the IDA credit, a revolving fund totalling
US$0.4 million, financed under the project, vould be established in a
Special Account to be opened for this purpose in a financial institu-
tion acceptable to the Association and operated under terms and condi-
tions acceptable to IDA (Section 2.02 (b), and Schedule 5 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The revolving fund vould be replenished
on a monthly basis upon receipt of documentary evidence to be provided
by BUNASEM.



- 19 -
Project Implementation and Organization
53.       The project would be implemented over a five-year period and
coordinated by BUNASEN. Governument would maintain a qualified expert,
acceptable to the Association, as BUNASEM's director, and would ex-
change views with the Association on any proposed candidates for such
position prior to his appointment (Section 3.02 (a) of the draft Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement). BUNASEM would be strengthened through the
provision of technical assistance services (para. 49). A master train-
ing plan for each activity linked to seed production vould aie at the
upgrading of staff skills, and provide the basis for the establishment
of a permanent staff training division in BUNASEN (para. 48). The
pedagogical qualities of technical assistance personnel vould be an
important selection criteria. The entry on duty of BUNASEM's Director,
three department chiefs, and procurement officer; and a signed contract
for the services of one technical and one financial advisor to BUNASEM
would be conditions of effectiveness (Section 7.01. (a) and (c) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
54.       The legal status of BUNASEM uould be kept under review, with
a view to granting it full administrative and financial autonomy as an
independent public sector agency vithin approximately two years from
the date of the Credit (Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). BUNASEM would, progressivesly take on a regulatory
function. In particular, BUNASEM would serve as technical secretariat
for a Nat1'^aal Seed Board (para. 56).
55.       Seed production would be carried out by participating
agencies or private enterprises under contract. Base seeds would be
produced by the agencies responsible for the management of the research
stations (INERA or a Coumodity Program), and controlled seeds by pri-
vate enterprises or project management units. BUNASEM would sign with
each participating agency a master contract outlining the reciprocal
obligations of each party as well as annual work programs. Tre master
contract would include (i) the commitments to produce, process, store
and distribute seeds of the type and quality required; (ii) the types
of financial and technical support to be given or received under the
project; and (iii) the administrative obligations of reporting, budget-
ing, auditing and procurement planning. Draft annual work programs
specifying activities, budgets, financing and procurement plans would
be submitted for the Association's comments before May 15 of each year,
and the final program would be approved together with the national
budget (Section 3.04 and Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The signing of master contracts vith the research institu-
tions, and vith three of the seed farms directly supported by the pro-
ject (para. 42), including the first year annual work programs, and the
conclusion of agreements satisfactory to the Association vith the four
National Commodity Programs vould be conditions of effectiveness (Sec-
tion 7.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 20 -
56.       To advise Governuent on quality standards for seed
production, import and release of varieties, improvement of marketing
%arocedures, and on the justification of possible financial support for
the seeds industry, a National Seed Board would be established hy
December 31, 1986 (Section 3.02 (b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). It would supervise, inter alia, the development of a
quality control system, and the preparation of seed legislation and of
a variety catalog by December 31, 1988 (Section 5.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). To ensure representation of all
concerned parties, Board membership vould include representatives of
Covernuent; private seed producers; farmers, traders and input supply
organizations; credit institutions; and agricultural development
organizations. The Board vould meet at least twice a year, with the
Director of BUNASEM as its Secretary. The Board would also undertake
studies, as needed, to monitor and to accelerate private sector entry
into the seeds industry.
57.       Marketing and Pricing.  Controlled seeds would be sold to any
interested buyer although the bulk of the demand is expected to come
from smallholder farmers. Since controlled seeds would constitute a
new product for many of them, intensive promotional efforts vould be
undertaken by BUNASEM and by the management of the seed farms. Seeds
prices would be set independently by seed farm management and the price
structure would form part of the annual financial plan to be reviewed
and approved by IDA. Pricing policy vould be guided by the objective of
recovering all production costs and sustaining the farms as financially
autonomous and viable operations (Section 3.05 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). It is recognized, however, that during initial
years and in accordance with this objective, management may decide to
sell seeds below cost for promotional purposes. Losses thus incurred
would be recovered later on, as the seed farms become commercially
established.
58.       Cost Recovery and Financial Implications for the Government.
During the project period, controlled seed sales from the five seed
farms would generate revenues of about US$2.4 million equivalent in
Zaires, covering about 34 percent of the seed farms' investment and
operating costs. After the fifth project year, the seed faras are
expected to generate sufficient revenues to cover all their costs.
Outside financing would, hovever, be required to cover occasional defi-
cits as, for example, when major equipment would need to be unexpected-
ly replaced. Covernuent would make credit available to the project seed
farms as and when needed (Section 3.02 (c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Such credit would be provided by existing institu-
tions (e.g. SOFIDE), or programs (e.g. Development Agreement Funds) at
their prevailing rates. Government contribution for the support of
BUNASEH and other project components (except the seed farms) are esti-
mated to amount to about USS800,000 or Z 38 million annually. Govern-
ment would ensure that budgetary allocations are made, as and when
required (Section 3.01 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 21 -
Disbursements and Procurement
59.       Disbursements.  Funds from the IDA credit would be disbursed
over a six year period. Disbursements would be against annual con-
tracts approved by the Association (para. 55). IDA funds would be dis-
bursed as follows:
(a)  100 percent of foreign and 55 percent of local expendi-
tures for building and infrastructure;
(b) 100 percent of foreign and 90 percent of local expendi-
tures for equipment and machinery, and for start-up
operating costs of the five seed farus;
(c) 100 percent of expenditures for operating costs of labo-
ratories, and training programs; and 50 percent of
operating costs for BUNASEM and the researcis institutes
and programs; and
(d) 100 percent of expenditures for consulting services.
Expenditures for items purchased under contracts or purchase orders
whose value is more than US$20,000 equivalent would be fully docu-
mented. All other expenditures would be disbursed on the basis of
statements of expenditures. The Special Account of US$400,000 (para.
52) would fund all local and foreign expenditures eligible for
financing under the Credit.
60.       Procurement.  All civil and infra-structural works which con-
cern many small buildings on scattered sites would be procured through
local competitive bidding, since they are unlikely to attract foreign
bids (US$5.5 million).  Equipment and material financed under the IDA
credit vould be procured as follows:  (i) office equipment and
materials (US$0.5 million), local or international shopping procedures;
(ii) heavy equipment and vehicles (US$2.1 million) international comr-
petitive bidding following Bank/IDA guidelines; and (iii) processing
and laboratory equipmcnt (US$1.4 million), local or international
shopping procedures (Schedule 3 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). All consultants would be selected following Bank/IDA
guidelines except for those funded directly by UNDP, who would be
selected under UNDP/FAO guidelines. The existing guidelines for local
procurement vary for each region or province, but local procurement
under the project would follow Bank/IDA guidelines.  In addition, the
annual contracts to be agreed by BUNASEN and the research institutions,
and BUNASEM and the seed farms would specify an annual procurement plan
(including procedures) to be reviewed and approved by IDA (Schedule 4,
para. 5 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       Accounts and Audits.  A consultant acceptable to IDA would be
recruited as Advisor for Administration and Finance for the duration of
the project (Section II of Schedule 3 of the draft Development Credit
Agreeiment). He or she would, inter alia, be responsible for setting up
BUNASEM's accounting and internal control systems, providing follow-up



- 22 -
support, assisting BUNASEM in consolidating the annual budgets of the
seed farms, preparing annual financing plans, and helping to train
local staff.   Manuals vould be prepared to help accounting staff of
BUNASEM and of the seed farma ln applying the systeus. Short teri con-
sultants might also be hired to assist the consultant in these tasks
and in setting up similar systems in each of the seed farms.   Seed
farms would (a) adopt, by December 31, 1986, accounting procedures
adequate to permit the accurate calculation of production costs s0 as
to determine sales prices (Sections 3.05 and 4.02 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement); (b) have these accounts and statements of
expenditures audited each year by external independent auditors accept-
able tu IDA; (c) subait these accounts to IDA no later than six months
after the close of the financial year; and (d) allov IDA to reviev the
accounts and records. Project accounts would also be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and their reports would be
submitted six months after the end of Govenrment's fiscal year (Section
4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
62.        Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting.  BUNASEM would prepare
semi-annual progress reports, based on ann- il vork plans, and progresa
and financial reports of the seed-farms.   It would also prepare an
annual report, to be submitted to the Minister of Agriculture, the
National Seed Board, and financiers.  This report, based on the semi-
annual reports and on information provided by BUNASEM's monitoring
unit, would provide information for possible policy adjustments.
BUNASEM would also carry out a mid-term review by the end of 1987 and a
completion report at project completion.   The mid-term review would
provide feed-back on lessons learned to guide the formulation of pOs-
sible follow-up project activities (Schedule 4, para. 7 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
63.       Benefits.  The project vould improve yields of food producing
faiiers directly by providing seeds and cuttings of higher production
potential, and indirectly by increasinrg the cost-effectiveness of other
inputs such as fertilizer end labor.   Production of maize, cassava,
rice, peanuts and grain legumes would increase significantly, thereby
assisting Zaire in its goal of achieving food self-sufficiency.  It is
estimated that the project vould improve the annual income of about 10
percent of the small farmers in Zaire, and thus contribute to the alle-
viation of rural poverty. The project would also assist in developing
a self sustaining seed industry and a seed quality control system,
train the required technical staff, permit the gradual involvement of
the private sector in seeds production, and help improve the efficiency
of the extension services.
64.        The project economic rate of return (ERR) vas calculated at
about 44 percent and the present value of the net benefit stream at
about US$62 million with a 13.5 percent discount rate.   Calculations
vere based on the following assumptions: (a) the economic life of the
project vas assumed to be 20 years; (b) a standard conversion factor of
1.0 vas applied as it vas assumed that the Government would continue to



- 23 -
apply exchange rate and tariff policies which would eliminate distor-
tions between international and domestic price levels; (c) incremental
production for soybeans, groundnuts, beans, cassava (cosettes, leaves,
and cutting) was valued at farm gate prices; for rice and maize, at
import parity prices as Zaire currently imports these comodities; (d)
all investment, and operating costs (years 1-5) and all capital equip-
ment replacement and recurrent costs vere included (years 6-20); (e)
family farm labor vas valued at half the estimated average market wage
in rural areas; and (f) additional packaging, transpertation, and
storage costs vere ineluded. The results of the analysis vere tested
for sensitivity to changes in costs and benefits. The ERR falls belov
satisfactory levels (15 percent) if benefits fall by 50 percent, or
costs are increased by 50 percent at the same time as benefits decrease
by 20 percent. These eventualities are unlikely. The ERR is somewhat
more sensitive to variations in benefits than in costs. This vould
suggest the importance of maintaining production, quality, sales, and
the proper use of controlled seeds.
65.       The project's main risks are those associated with the over-
all situation of the Zairian economy, including shortages of local pro-
fessional staff and of local financial resources, and the proper
coordination of all agencies participating in the establishment of a
seed production structure. The impact of such risks on project imple-
mentation would be reduced, to an extent, by the requirement that seed
production units be managed by agencies or enterprises acceptable to
IDA; and that Government appoint a qualified expert as Director of the
National Seed Bureau. The continued improvements in resource alloca-
tion and financial management in the agricultural sector, in particular
the efforts undertaken in DADR urder the IDA financed technical assist-
ance project (Credit 1244-ZR). are expected to alleviate the risks
linked to potential delays in the provision of Government funds. An
intensive staff training and technical assistance program vould support
project implementation. At the project level, major risks are the
maintenance of an adequate supply of base seeds needed for seed multi-
plication, and the farmerst receptivity to the use of improved seeds at
commercial price levels. Consequently, svecific pr,ovisions are made
under the project to assist research stations responsible for the pro-
duction of base seeds, to promote seed sales on the basis of marketing
strategies adapted to regional conditions, and to further strengthen
extension services.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUIJORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic
of Zaire and the Association and the Recounendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
67.       Special Conditions of the Project are listed in Section III
of Annex III. Special Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:



- 24 -
(a) entry on duty of BUNASEM's Director, three department chiefs, and
procurement officer; (b) signing of master contracte with the research
institutions, and vith three of the seed farms directly supported by
the project, including the firet year implementation programs; (c) con-
clusion of agreemants satisfactory to the Association with the four
National Couuodity Programs; and (d) signed contract for the services
of one technical and one financial advisor to BUNASEM.
68.       I au satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recomnend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
May 24, 1985



- 25 -                                     ANNEX I
TAuLE k3                                 Page 1 of 5
_ta                    -    r    DICaos DATA sut
rtAIR                               SPUJIECE CEaGS <MEIGUTE   UAE>f
mm7                 <MO(S  RICI  CSTUIMTE) b
Cir        LOU tlC   aICA           manL£ Tu-ME
lÓuatI     Ósre      E81N m TEF…    SODTE oF SAIAN       MCA  S. OF 5A5*1
SAm  <TEUSIOM.>
TOTAL                             2345.4      2345.4       2345.4               .
ACICULTURAL                        146.4       151.2        155.7
c rAIAT (ton)                  70.0       110.0        190.0           249.1                 1112.9
ur coano     vu CPITA
<EILOAIS or OIL EQUIVALET           65.0        10.0        74.0             62.8                 s5.O
sasiau asu  LrT  cfSTCs
POPULATIOI.NI-TEAR (TNOUSAMD     17756.0    21630.0       008.0,
URUK POPULATION Cl Or TOTAL)        15.7        21-6        37.8             19.2                   Z9.7
POPULATION RECTIONS
POPULaToNr in wER 2000 CHILL)                              55.0
STATIONITR POPULATION (UILL>                              171H.
POPULATION 1flEJETUN                                        1.9
POPULATION DETI
FER SQ. M.                         7.6         9.2        12.7             32.5                   55.8
FER SQ. E. ACEI. LNOU            121.3       143.1       191.2            119.2                  111.5
POPULATION At STEUCTU  <2)
0-14 nus                          6.1        43           4.8             45.6                   45.4
15-64 llS                          Z .9       52.9        52.4            51.5                    51.7
65 AID ARIOE                       3.0         2.8         2.8              2.9                    2.9
POPULATIOb COYIH RATE (2)
TorAL                              Z.2         2.0         2.9              2.8                    2.8
URiU                                 ,         5.2         7.6              6.2                    5.2
CIUDE CIT  RATE (FER TSOUS)         48.0        47.8        44. 60 U8                               47.0
COUDE MATH RATE (<t SHOUS)          24.3        20.8        15.8             17.7                   15.2
mass REuODUcraOu RATE                3.0         3. C        3.0 C:.2
FAMIL? PLANNIN
ACraIOS,. ANNUIL (TOUS M
USES <Z OF MAIED  OE)                                                                              ,
inE  0F FOOD PUOD. PEU CUITA
(1969-71-W100                      101.0       101.0        87.0            85.8                    91.6
n CAPITa SPLY or
CALCUIES (Z OF R EQIEOEIS)        98.0       101.0        94.0             86.4                   98.2
PRTEINS (AIES FER DAT)            36.0        37.0        33.0            49.9                    56.7
OF talCs AIllAL AII PULSE       13.0        13.0         10.0 lc         18.3                   17.0
CRILD (AGES 1-1) DEaTH RATE         32.0        27.0        20.0            23.8                    18.7
LIFE UPECT. AI 6IT  (YEAS>          40.0        43.9        50.3            48.4                    51.7
INFANT MORT. RATE (E  TNOUS>       150.0       132.0       106.0            117.5                  102.7
aCCESS TO SAit uTan <SPOP)
TOTAL                                         11.0        16.0 Id          21_8                   35.6
N                                   ..        33.0        43.0o7;i        61.5                    54.1
RURAL                               ..         4.0         s.0 7           14.2                   27.3
ACCESS TO VERETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPUL.AION)
TOTAL                               ..         5.0        22.0 /e          32.0
IIU35                               ..         5.0        65.0 Fe         69.2
RURAL                              _.         5.0         6_0 7          24.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIA1         79620.0    30140.0      14780.0 If       27477.8                11948.3
POP. PE" EURSINC VERSO            3510.0      2290.0      19ZO.0 ri       3396.2                  2248.9
POP. PER FospITAL ED
TOTAL                            230.0       320.0        350.0 If       1089.0                  986.9
SEAU                              60.0       100.0       150.021          395.2                  368.7
RURAL                            770.0      1070.0      2670.0 la        30S4.0                 4012.1
AMUHSSIONS PER HOSPITAL Eª             .          ..MM
StOSCiN
AVERACE 512E OF HWSENOLH
Tors.                               ..          ..           ..              ..                     ..
aRIAS                               ..         6.1
RURAL                               ..          ..         6.0
AVERAE  O. 0F PERSONSIROOK
TOTAL                                     ..          ..
W                                   ..          .....
RURAL                                           ..            ..
ACCES TO ELEC´. (: OF DCELLIMGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
5RAR                                ..          ..
UAL                                                      ..               ..



- 26 -
ANNEX I
T A ‡ L E la                          Page 2  of 5
ZAiRE                  - SOCI1L lOICAToIS DATA SMEE
ZLaU                                NEPUZE GMUPS (MEIAUD AVU4MS) la
msr                (MT EcuIT sNh       ) i 
URECET    LOM lMCME APlCA         NIODLE 1.cmo
IS6D-b   1970!!b    ESTiTN b    Som or SA5A            aPCI S. 0F salA
ADJUSTED ENROLIMENT RATIOS
PRIAiY:  TOTAL                    60.0       S8.0         90.0 k          69.2                  91.0
HALE                   S8.0       110.0       104.0            7 .S                   90.5
FENALE                 32.0        66. 0       73.0 1          57.6                   73.6
SECONDMY: TOTAL                    3.0        9.0         23             13.1                   17.4
MALE                    4.0        13.0        33.0 7i         17.6                   23.7
FESALSE                 1.0        4.0         13.0 7L          S.3                  14.8
VOCATIONAIL <Z OF SECOMUDR)         26.5        9.6         10.0 le         7.2                    5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRaIAi?                           *0.0       43.0         30.0 If         46.1                  38.6
SECONDAIRY                        20.0       20.0         Zi.O           25.9                   26.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)             31.3 /h    13.0         54.5           4.3                    35.6
PASSENGER CARS/TROUSA1D POP         2.5         3.0          ..             3.8                   20.7
RADlIO RECEIVERSITBOUSAND POP         ..        2.9         5.2            41.9                  100.8
TV RECEtVERS,rNOUSAMD POP             ..        0.3         0.3             2.0                   18.5
NEWS]PAPER C-DAILY GENEEAL
INIEREST>) CIRCULATION
PER TIIOUSAID POPUILATION          1.2        9.2         1.6 If          5.4                   17.2
CINEHA ANIIUAL ATrENDANCEICAPITA     0.1        0_1          ..             1.4                    0.3
TOTiL LADOR FORCE aratiS)         8216.0     9465.0     12476.0
FENiLE (PERCENT)                  46.4       46.5        42.4            36.5                   33.8
ARICLTURE (PERCENT)               83.0       79.0        75.0            77.4                   57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT>                 9.0       11.0        13.0             9_8                   17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             46.3       43.7         40.7            41.0                  36.3
MAfiLE                            51.9       49.8         *7.7           52.1                   47_6
FEALE                             41.2       38.0         33.8           30.2                   25.1
ECONOHIC DE∆ENDENCY RATIO            1.0        1.1         1.2             1.2                    1.4
IoNE DISIEIBUTIO
ERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOaEE
CIåVED IIY
HIGEST 5  WO HWSEHOLDS              ..
NGXCEST 205 OF UOUSEIOLDS           .-
LIJEsT 20Z OF BOMSEED!.S            ..         --          --                                     --
LOUMES 402 OF UOUSEDOLD5            * -         -*
poegmr TiAoem coeae
ESTIE A2SOLUSE POlET! InCoE
LEVEL (USS ER CUITA)
IRZN                                ..         ..           ..          168.3                  525.3
HURAL                               ..         ..        80.0 le         90.8                  249.0
ESTINATED RELATIVE PoVEM  IICOE
LEVEL (USS FER CAPITA)
URIAI.                              ..         ..        76.0 /e        107.7                  477.6
RURAL                              ..          ..        43.0 7v         65.0                  186.0
ESTIA r POP. EL  AIBSOLUTE
pOVE?f? INCOEE LEVEL (Z)
URUAN                               ..         ..          ..            34.7
RUAL                                ..         ..        S0.0 le         65.4                     ..
unT AVAILABLE
MOT APPLICAILE
I 0  T E S
fa  The group averaes for *ee Indiator are population-leigted ar1t:_tic maª. Ceverage of countrie. mu% the
indicators depeudu on aalebitly of data Md  la not nifoou.
fb  UnIle otberv2ue noted. -ata for 1960- rater te ay 7er betven 1959 end 1961; Data for 1970- betveen 1969 dmd
1971; sad data for D-lut lacent eltate- betuen 1980 and 1982.
le  1977; /d 1976; le 1975; If 1979; !A 1978; th 1962.
JUNE. ª984



lu.-115     -   -    -135   133-131. ‡q13 -3
p3333-    -3  ..-1 o  333433  -  43113 34331339 p-        3a.
*3.P., 3- 13333          ..         -.flp‡  -3-  33- - 3315 33333 33    -
W '-'                                           ?M‡~Á-a.3....j.           
1313133  -    ~     <~Ó~-   r.~....Al        i 3-%-         ff A  
mi'33 .,-= - ..1.Óo-q . s.~.s-u1P.
M33  333'                                                                         3,3.    -ail5  '3. s   333.e.-.                                3313
-33.33333  3-333333   Onn          a.  --  ~R  -a                                                                                   -  '-a. gp1313343.53
-% i-n  -bu     .-_  -qa a.  8 1-.-"                     M         sub p- ´S   -ou    1an.n  =n -0         s-.9  aM ,o
33?33133   <33.331 a. 3.4.33   1313103o -.  33    35 -                                                             '3--a" 3.134    m- 5   '33<  3.3 M.
- <33-1333   ~       -iq-  t          0" ..-M   -  P                            3-".3w. .nm s.  p-"- a.         -  3-3 6  ‡  <....           33 dTI-3
- 1  3- 3-   -  <3-  -  .33> 1333~*I '-.1   ...u  3.3.333lm -                                       An  I- <p*-3    "-  -.3~   33  <'  913
33311. 433133- 33                 1  -  3  1-33        13 £333  13334
-    1   1    1863 l-,a   Ó31~r 351T                                    3pMI331    13   a                           -‡"3s. n
0J.R oni  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 9- *a.-"3353  3  3.1113-  33'333513  3333-339-M333
314-3                13> ~- ‡p313-1.13 33335-3 p                                                       3-   -31-  33131331 p333 s--   £13
a3.35  -qM        ,  -0= I      *31131- 33.3-   -33            1.331                           31   3 3-<33133.1                            31133  1 .333-  .333- 5
PW                                                                        ßmai~~~*33   33   ~  -    - 63  '0%131  linl-13   31 .3333 A31 -53  113-- &"Il-&
.36   '3631313  53j    - .a.  --   353   '3,31.33                      3  £1-   336  3133311413-3313*<3333  -3  -3in3
.3- 331313.3 1.1'~3    33.3*43-  ~3 f1 f.3.                                                             tiqsp.43   13-   -13                                          .
131  36.3    ns'nt1333        ii    r  .335   -313u-.33333  13335.-d3   333f    *3.n.3  53331 -3   -33
3-33 P*13 .313  '3.33   3.55143Fin313f~                                            -333.33    3.-3    33333                            3   3333l M       1-O   5
135 5433   3~ .3-13.333313133.3.33  33334   l3~'37                      331M.".3 34 %33 - (333-13   53313333-..  113331
ip" a- ~         ~          3333633   33   3333313.13                                                                                                3331   333
-   51   1353   33 33-33133*33335333-
Mq-                                                              rui~ -4-33--  3333.331  3- 33U'3-.i
'13333  33333  33.5333133-331331 -3           331.33 -1313.313  133i-  
33 3-Il 313533 3-33133-313.33311 *t.3331e  b) -p 333133 3 333 3W -t3
33 53- 34333 3- - 513131  -  33533  -  3333.333313 333333  3  331.3311 ~133i 3313313313 13 33333333 3333 3333333 31333131..'3534 
411     3.3433        131 3  1  M1.  43 "0113311333&.Iœ                          33. 33 --´33361 3333*33133 -M 13-1  13333
.3   3-.334s.   13313  a  -  33333- aai.Wc         .9s-<-                           L-1-.3 n  "           -      ..   4-03,Ó      - <    _aÓ.33, 3  333  .3
1-1-Ml ‡.-Ma M--M                 *33333 1 3   331331333---3133                                                     '1m33 "Ili-    ‡.3 '52133 ‡.  MI 3   p-3.133 ma
-    -331-f33-3f        4l313131  3  3-  3313.W3-m l-m                                      .3.333   -3 3    3-'134b 333  13 j- <3~fl -33341533333    .13133
313311333331333313 33333     -m-  3      li 335 -    m M 131313   <-3333                                     mi,Il  b1353        f' -     N'33   36    93 1  333   %W13 13333
L"3-33333133  3--.3   343   331    3333                                            33  53  33333333  333- -            n133 -  3353>3333533333
n3 -    * -133    3333-3333 :3-13343 n - -3d                                                                            1_- -P 31333.  '33  31331  '363'33   1333
lÓr…F533                13333.33  '33133   33.3   3.33333     - <..13  1333333  39  3333-
sa  -W  -M   1.  M  P.-Oi-    mI Il "Mu'1333 mm13 333 336            obi-"o*3
∂3313 3333331  33.33333313-  1-11133333 .31333.33 I              3      M, 31-1333331333   33.4 3333-3-   a.    1.333- .1     313
-  <53.33131333  1333133 131333 33a.23.  3133533  33331 ,333   33131                                             '1333II33363.-fl   ªIs   -‡ '313'36  ' 33
'33333.  36ª3353.353,.3133 M 3.33 5131'3313  35333   3.1                    M33333  5313.4 - q '34.3
3133 3' 13531313131 31 313-13 - 03331333 3.a33 1M3313313-- 333 * .3.&1M                                                       '3333131   ~  3133
13. 3333133.3 .333-3  333- - 33333133 33  *13.33 -3333--. 8313"3'4313                                                        '3f31<4111.1'33LI
'313333    333.3351  3333111   3.331.-31.3                 511333  333   31.33   3333-53113131313 "l--3  3
33333. 13113333611333. 331331I'3333313 33ofts333 'M" 533313   3333133  3  333135333*3333
331333333333335. -3313-335 in3*313  3.333531  33133353                           .315‡3133333333337                     1 33   -1 3.333.3 3´6     513P  3
'33311   33133                                       4.  133             Mai 33  31  333333   -    3-       ‡          po3-1  '
'3-  3 - 3333       lune433. ‡.  au333 .. mina  - 3333                    .43i  333333 -M    3313    il-33a- 15033333 .43.8'3333  3.3 43333 p
M,-1333."   ,                 M. 1q'3.3331 '3331133  3333333  3)1 31-ª13-                    1331-   '-F43-1  3333 Z        M3333  3-34         133   133333 Ac-
9 51:  5   an)1.3, 1335>    <33- pua."  33513-13  M3333  334ª 3314313                                      .'433   1 i133331* 3    333
3313- q 33.33334  13-313  33333               - 3333313.3331333                                      33>3-.3.13333-3-1.3313331.  3
33303    3 l     35133333   5.33.33333 ffl           dq       33rz. w Al13  133333   3131  313                                                   --p  35   3-      lofai 133.1
13                                                                                                                           -M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~33-   1      -3334   1430  33  33.3   33303-3ib
Illu-                        ff1333 334.3  3- - 33l 333        p-13   13333133  133393
3-1    W-.-1I -J                ∂ -f    313t-  3 q3333         1       an3        3363 M 3   3   -01355313333f- a.3.-ft                          3n.
1133,3 33131       -              -    Je       53 qn-        3313p 3"q   .                    1~ a                  4   -bif   -    M-  
IIIm  d .4 Pq   .M- .4        . 3   ff
go    33-333133331131- 133-    333                      3313-.3-3            133                                                                           '1333 3du   3- 3315
1    xzm v          -343333    1.3331   -I3331  33131                                  33 -    31'        33333   93            .333 3   53313333333   .



-28 -
-~I
EU  f S
z&m imaoe n1m/m
AM=           sUt of 0F at
(miliie US$ At    1- lt priic  (Z)        Akujl Cravth latB (Z)
coerm   pie      (at amrea Pd )          (at cot  1.970 pioea)
1983              1963             1981      1982      1983 P
co  DM_tie krodx  2/        4470.7              IS100             2.9      -2.2       1.2
(GF   -      )  -li)       (3414.5)             (76.4)           (2.9)    (-2.9)     (0.8)
‡gd=1a.                   1584.6               35.4              2.7      2.0        2.0
meuuy                     1082.2               24.2             4.8      -3.6       4.3
servico                   1716.8               38.4             1.5      -2.6      -0.1
3696.7               82.7             1.7      -9.5       5.0
Gr   _                       891.6               19.9           -24.7    -21.3    -13.5
1at of GNS 3/               1597.0               35.7             9.2      15.4       8.0
Umm of GINIS                1760.0               39.4           -19.9    -12.5        2.0
1 o ai th                    615.8               13.8           -35.7       5.3    -ll.0
PLUMa FIU       (Cnral Gue m)
(vl.1a,n Z)                        Z of G)P
A     c t u a l(n It   c pdLs)
1981        Lm         D983'  Ls             1982   is83
o    t          4B58.8                  6259.1     10896.0       20.4      20.0      19.1
Ooem oepdiawo               58321       84a8.1    12715.0        24.5      27.0      22.1
Qoer  deafim                -973.3    -2189.0    -117.0          -4.1      -7.0      -3.0
C     w tta1 cei mro        744.9       084.9      647.0         3.1       3.5       1.1
ove1il defIr-t             -1718.2    -3273.9    -2364.0         -7.2    -10.5       -4.1
e, ål    Am   E
1981      1982     1983
:.u11   Z at     16 emid
ly  ax Qma }Soy                                                4644.9    8W57.4   14002.0
Bnk lOU  to Ebblic Sectr                                       37S3.6   7887.7   10252.2
}wk  1rat t PrIute sectr                                       1342.4   1931.1    2581.8
(Ieroenram or Ilxc N>kbo)
F nid Qise Hoey (as Z of GDF -  rúet prien)                      19.5      25.7      24.3
Com    Pr p  Im  (1975 - I00)                                  1813.1    2487.9    4375.3
A1  pzoeÓge   In a Lw                                          38.1      37.2      75.9
P            lPrim IxxI                                          62.4    108.5       30.0
B   (ilt lm fElfU  S5 or                                         32.3      43.9      49.2
w  <dtD  Pdvte SeWr
1:Ff.L All  im m  t db]= ln cMs tabs ame at tbe meme oeuge  ate xme&ling
dedz~ th   -s coor-aL
I/ rLdtiaml &=u= ba mdu ulbuxtaoef ad abeld be
-    c
2J At      - Pd     ; c´eyo*  are exjruml n      t      ail vi um naid dm t dt
ux_1uie of af 1mim  tm ad m ub di.
3/Bn  c          of pmcs  et1c  IaÈdd   e           r- e iWe tla rme -cIl oeoeahs da.



2 z9 _
ZAXE - EBIDc DoK
n~F or  U1EM  (f  Us$)               1Nm         191        1m1        191Lq3
DUota or Waiaad  vic                 2185.3     120        1541.3      12.8
ci iddch: I     _rdum   F.O.B.    (21D8.2)   (149.9)   (1454.1)   (IM2.3)
b outa oracie ad  suru              2526        230.6      212.3      2090.9
et id": Ibrd14x"  F.O.BL          (1472.0)   (1290.0)    (11 .3)   (II12.8)
prLm       o tmam    (ut)            -79.4        -3.5       -8        -21.4
Ooiu Ak   ai  m                     -417.7      -672.1    -593.8    -49.5
Xfial PMU (ame)                      266.8       247.6      161.2       168.9
PubUJe captal (ut)                   -22.1      -168.6     -156.8     -225.6
Pd_lªe  aptal (ne) ad  e
ad oeiuaoe                         -&.O       -147.4      -m8         83.3
gR ALloceie                           20.8        18.9        -          -
Yfmdrg                              212.4       605.4      624.9      518.5
Oela nat htermedoneliei
hr.e)                           -482       113.2       35.3       -55.6
EMMO Eam:                            'IZh( )    (0/)    (MM
hUgut 24, 1979-7ebay 2Z, N190          2.05        0.40       0.375
Fd*smy 22, 198-Jim  19, 1181           3.05        0.33       0.2625
Jau  19, l961-e.r 12. L9               5.62        0.l8       0.1575
:bpoeiier 12, 1983                    26.93       0.06        0.03S42
(29.93)     (0.03
PdÈury 24, 1986 V                     33.0         0.03       0.028
u19.4 (ad  )                  40.36       0.0C       0.02
AV3Uå EDCMN; RMn:
1978                                   0.836
1979                                   1.729
398                                    2.800
lm81                                   4.384
.982                                   5.750
19m                                   32.859
1986                                  36.130
l<oemal Md i  to1aim                 1646.1     1195.8     125L3       13869
Oth}=                                 392.1      306.0      201.8      236.2
Total                              293.2      1499.8     1454.1      1523.1
E M EL r DM ( f Dac. 31, 1983e, Ml. USS)
Public Debb, mnci goruiteml                           4193
235
gat mctdr ‡nldd                                    ZOE
IEB 9 um  1983*
Pubri Iek. InI1      -                                                  13.9 2/
lbz-QieceaIV P        wt lbt                                             5.8
(As of Jmry 31 19B5. Mll  M5)
&tetaag 6 flEb1me                                     360.2
nflilui                                                190.7
Ing bel. fflimbarud                                    ß
1/ a, SqPter r2, 1 98  Paire litreauoed a *itfoml du1    _    rie
rg, oadag of  i cffida  rue Md a fre mret mte, eime in
pentl.1  Ème. Mm un m m              -ufiM  en er bazy 24, 1986;
benI_th, the mea  vin frt cm a imkly bs.
2/ Red2   exminal so ie dit mrvioe actmliy piA.



- 30 -
Page 1 of 2
grATSuC  BAKMIC G   PER&TICuiS CI< ZAGú
A. SIAMM  OF BA  IMS AM) MI   a          S (As of Ma-eh 31, 1985)
ban or
credit   Year                                              Amnat in US$ MLUoir
Niber _Sged    Borrower                               Bak       m&        Uhdi1bursed 1/
Prier
to June   oxeo &    Transport                91.58 21
1960     otralo      ifrastne
One ban F'iy Dlsbxd                                   100.00
Sixtee Credits Fuly Disb1r8                                     200.34
796     1978      ZAIE       011 Palm                            9.00          6.66
902     1979      ZARE       Railwws                            20.00          5.30
998      1980     ZAIRE      Fifth Dev. Firae                   18.50          2.94
1040     1980      ZARE       gullhllder Maize                   11.00          7.02
1089     1981      ZAIRE      KlMlu Ng        Sugr               26.40          4.31
1152     1981      ZAR        l%mgMlu Teduical Asslstaoe   2.90                 1.09
1180     1982      ZAIRE      OeAlnA Mdoern1zat1m                26.00         16.96
1224     1982      ZAE        Siaba Er SysteP Re        -ibtlo. 19.00          11.64
1241     1982      ZAIEE      Water S& ly i                      18.00          8.63
1244     1982      ZAIE       Pgrialtxe T.A.                      5.00         3.38
1264     19B2      ZAIRE      Second Cotto                       11.30         10.52
1273     1982      ZAI        Sixth MFC                          21.50         12.68
1290     1982      ZAIE       HlgIuay V                          43.50         21.28
1325     1983      ZAIRE      NiEth Fast liral D;wiopiet        13.00         10.57
1335     1983      ZAIE       Ports Rahablitaio                 25.00         22.24
1336     1983      ZtIRE       l secamin  T.A.                    7.00         5.62
1409     1983      ZAIE       Petrolem Sector T.L                 4.50          4.05
1421     1984      ZAIE      &Rzizi Il  ly electric              15.00         12.97
1475 3/  1984      ZMIE       Raiblesf I                         26.00         26.00
1492     1984      ZAIE       Seventh MC                         36.00        35.87
1519 3/  1985      ZAIRE      Fduxat1io Techiical A-slstaaoe      9.00         9.00
1540 3/   1985     ZAIE       T21ba Agriailtural DEVelopMEnnt    12.50         12.50
Tbtal (less canoellatlons):                 191.58    580.44        251.23
- of 'wtbahas been repald                   135.44      239
Total now oatstanding:                       56.14    578.05
hADunt sold:                     54.47
of ehch lhas bee repaid        54.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA               56.14    578.05
Total Urdsbursed:                             0       251.23        251.23
1/ US dollar amnunts for credits 1089-ZR and omards are computed at tbe rate of Credit
a ptiati      .
2/ Guarsnreed by tbe Itigdom of Belgium.
3/ Signed buxt not yet effecie.



-31 -
AI1:
e 2 cf 2
B. SIAm r 0F IFC  1       NSD1S (As of Narde 31, 19B5)
Fi9i                             lype of            Ammt ilu US$ MHlhiLs
Year    Obl                         siness          bm    F         Total
'-70    Socitf  Ffndfre de       1z:                  -      0.76    0.76
fl0oe{ (S…fll)
1979    Zfre QLf 01 Qmqxny    oi} prodloa           2.50      -      2.50
& epl. Cmy
1979    zaire Petroleom Cbunay   oil. prod:x±Ôm     1.61      -      1.61
& expl. Co*Áuny
1983    Nord-Sud 1trie-
oReOsiT QIE, for studies
:n an abDnim project                      0.23      -      0.23
1984    Sodkt  Financifre de     IXC                  -      0.54    0.54
'&elOppeMEnt (SMfE)
1985 1/ Sodc;tA Textle de                cm1 my    6.25    0.53    6.78
de Ktsagani
1985 1/ Copny lin fotm           Cott, Fanidig        -      0.10    0.10
1985 2/ Grands ibtels du. Zae    Hutel QnLuy       15.0D      -    15.00
Total gross amuItnEnts                     25.59    1.17   26.76
Less repay5ets                              4.36      -      4.36
Neld by D!rC                               21.23    1.17   22.40
1/ Appraed by IKC's Board en April 4,1985
VApprovd by IEC's Bo´l on April 16, 1985



- 32 -
ANNEXC III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEEINTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Evente
(a) Presentation to Consultative Group: June 1982
(b)  Identification by:                    FAO and IDA
(c)  Preparation:                          March 1984
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                    Junel3uly 1984
(e)  Negotiations:                         April/May 1985
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:        October 1985
Section II:  Special Project Implementation Action
Signing of annual addenda to manter contracts between BUNASEM
and participating agencies to specify yearly work programn,
financing, and procurement plans for each participating entity,
under the coordination and supervision of BUNASEK (para. 55).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  GovernLent to subuit to the Association, by June 30, 1986,
an action program for the improvement of agricultural
research (para. 33),
(b)  BUNASEM to become an independent public sector agency,
with financial and administrative autonomy (para. 54),
(c)  seed production to be carried out by entities acceptable
to IDA on the basis of master contracts vith BUNASEM
(para. 55),
(d) a National Seed Board to be established by December 31,
1986 (para. 56),
(e) a variety catalog and draft seed legislation to be
prepared by December 31, 1988 (para. 56),
(f) price to >-e set by seed farm management ta sustain the
farms as financially viable operations (para. 57), and



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g) seed farns to establish cost accounting systems by
December 31, 1986 to permit accurate determination of
sales prices (para. 61).
Effectivenesa Conditions
Special conditions of effectiveness (para. 67) would be:
(a) entry on duty of BUNASEX's Director, three department
chiefs, and procurement officer,
(b) signing of master contracte with the research
institutions, and with three of the seed farme directly
supported by the project, including the firet year annual
implementation programs,
(c) conclusion of agreements satisfact.ory to the Association
vith the four National Commodity Programs, and
(d) signed contract for the services of one technical and one
financial advisor to BUNASEM.
.



IBRD IU447                            -
SUD,_AN    J                                    CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                 ,
<…   Ai   '  SUDAN                                                                                                                                                        ,.. S  '- >'  _'/- X   SUDAN.
´!|/    l  2  <    vJ   4         #EHIMIPIA               mANOWf          *\    ,UO?
*     s       Ve                                          '- -                                                                   .,         --__:´  - Á_ 
go. OU aa,i                                                   
.      .           ZAIRE                       E U\)
ee                              !_                   .        j   *UEANOAKAo                                                               J 
4TLAP.~~~~~C   ~~   -  I ~~HAUT-ZAIRE
ooP.c      'Y\...~                   nANZANIALSu
~~  ~~~M8I~~ou!                             OUATEUR                                         ANINO
G ABO N             |          PEOPLE'S  REPUB' 5
GABON                  ~~~~~OF THE CON
_-II              N j   z  Rwofflee   }       t                  K I V U          ')W¿NDA
"'w.                                                            WKAv~~4KASAI
,rJ f. -AnLLEg   >- ' EA A                                                                      RIE NTA-
ATtANTlC              ;            ,-,,    6e,                |       ∞            \   OC\10  *sX  '<>                        "l A CN\                                     TANZANIA
i)   vic  -,r 8ªo           |%!)                                                                                                              H A ai A           .\ 
;n~ ~ ~ AR                                     4s *,.                                                            >1'i ;x|J  ,.  ,`\  
.|.            ~           ~          ~         ~~~Ir  !e-  '                                 Q                                                               @
z A I R E                                                                      x,.        .Á7. 
DEVELOPMENT STRUCTURES                                                                                                    /  ':'.                   N
MAJOR FOODCROP AREAS
MAJOR RURAL OIVILoWMIN? IAJ1JECTS   MAJOR CTO  CO   N                     Ni?OaI _ap._ i
t PNB <UBAID)                          COTON lAINA                  O *        ualrrn a       j-                                 e
C pUXO <IPADIDrI                       mCOTO  ZAoI clta                                       r        _              ..                                                    . .-
ciomÓtutCA44A ItOUIIOC tFAC) W^EA tCO   La COTONNIERE                                       I                  I                                                U_U UASO0*ffiUrVr_ U
4 MBahnA NOUNOU lINO> WUALA ecOiZA>     ISARIOOA(LmI&I                                                                                                              au IN,U.
I CODIX tDIA/OTZl 1EtHI ICOClAI                                                                                                                                         lm_ lAlSffiatAMI  s  _N  >  \  -
L WHUDI <lAC>                                                                                          AN OLAo II pl CU  -  -h R-r
y NORTtIEASt RURAL COVELOPMENT PROJEOT  Ut   aª ur4arce a_gu                                                     J It                                        I    - 1NeRl_rwA
IIum Il. 1Dw/CIDAjfAC>                                         Up .lie pxuelr4                                                                                 .0emm  p   o   0
LUWUA IiPAoi,DA>                       Maleo Usufl pfodndf.4 II                                    _      -                  ZAMBIA                 \            ,        a
g KABINDA undir pApalt                  BaasZr.an major food pldueOng daJiO                       i                                                                        n          nor
ia I,ratr0l uy CEPrC and ShaxU vlit voDrd
una‚r p,.oa.aro,n                                                                               i              3'                            ´lE 
M5ER~~~~~~~~~~~~~DCME 19E4



IERD 18448
NICIRA J_ª   '                                       SUos                      CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                                                       S
NIG tlËERIA              .'  l  _,  SUDAN    
* ~~  ~   C0mftA~. AFRICAN A!P'.4,
'a.                                     ICIN'VA
GA~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ BO  |Ë or THE
|I AN rAIc                                    ANZANIA
MODAMIIOIJ ~ ~      Nc‡UGND
RESEB ARCNH C PEOPLERS  R:PUBLIC                  .                                                                          \
G A B 0 N                OI   F THE CONGO    '     '.-.\
A  190¿N  1 0    590LTAZAI
SEED PRODUCTION AND AGRICULTURAL
RESEARCH CENTERS
* PI,flMl fl1110 ,nUCa BfilulInS  -    PIoXd 04lod t 
A COnIÓI * #d.l4I., ce .NA        -    uB,n *.1N/g,aI .044_0IL                                                                  ª    
mnnot W,z‡&rd cemm of 1ra                                                  ANGOLA              *PJ*-È 7a,., 001a q; OY
0 heible future miel rt rd rnmodupl´t  -    NZ  ibu                                                                        \       K      i;t                r   w rE"
POPUIA'lON DEONSlY;    "    "                                         _ (                                                                                   art -  f Ëmo_r
C !ar wxmr _._ I~~~~~nlefesN tNall lt f trhIP-rnb
101.1 40M..I      -   ~~~~.1- Inh1119laU BOMM
l5.40,Kn,                  b. _hdfdet.goa                                                                                             s b oahmo
-i FlWKm   _   $stA5.19I0u brJuSunn                        r_  _   _   _              ZAMBIA                 1\       j,r                 r
DECEMBER 1984



MOU)    NICON   /CMAD                                                                              IR   84
-4-7  I CAUOAN r  \             CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                             1
0 tAuP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SDN
*         a~~AaNFALL  /N ELVTOND.i   /)                                                 gs,
N 1%' Ss ,~. J ..//   ') 
ArL.'ªs fo             Hl~ ANOL                                       ZAIR-t' Et
_  sª  "e t@ .,,"fwA                 E    f  r.    w  
.0.                                       Pm                                 UCIANDA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~P
G A B O N         PEPL' REPUILIC
OCEAN                                           CIÊ b  Af                                      T _. NDZAMBIA ß;, i ~ __A
04.-  . e.   .-. !  o.0i
ZA  EDECEMBER 98



