I)ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rtport No. 11897
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SEEDS PROJECT
(CR. 1609-ZR)
May 21, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
Tbhi document has o r"tdcled dltslbellos and moy b* used by mgl knts only In the perfonnance of
their oMcial du(kts. Its contlnts may ndo o4herwwts be disalo," a  Itbout Word Bank mulhouttlon.



EXCHANGE RATES
Unit: Zaire
US$1.00
Year                 Equivalent
1983                      12.9
1984                      36.1
1985                      49.9
1986                      59.6
1987                     112.4
1988                     187.0
1989                     381.4
1990                     718.6
1991                   15,587.0
12/1992                 1.7 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BUNASEM    National Seeds Bureau (Bureau national de semences). Renamed National Seeds
Service (Service National de Semences or SENASEM) in 1990.
CAPSA        Agricultural Centers for the Multiplication of Improved Seeds (Centres agronomiques
pour la production de semences ameliorees)
DADR         Ministry of Agriculture (Departement de l'agriculture et du developpement rural;
renamed Ministere de l'agriculture, animation rurale et developpement
communautaire in 1990.)
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organization
IDA          International Development Association
INERA        National Institute for Agricultural Studies and Research (Institut national pour l'etude
et la recherche agronomiques)
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PRAAL        Food Security Program (Programnme d'autosuffisance alimentaire)
PRONAM       National Cassava Program
SENASEM    National Seeds Service (Service national des semences)
SNV          National Extension Service (Service national de vulgarisation)
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR OF GOVERNMENT
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL US1E ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
May 21, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Zaire
Seeds Project
(Credit 1609-ZR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Zaire - Seeds Project (Credit 1609-
ZR) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The project aimed to increase food production by improving the supply of seeds
and cassava cuttings. UNDP parallel financed the establishment and operations of
BUNASEM (the National Seed Bureau). After a promising start, Government support
declined. More seed farms were established, and for more crops, than planned; seeds
legislation was drafted and staff were trained. However, production of improved seeds
was only 40 percent of target and the project failed to establish an effective seed
marketing system. In 1991 civil unrest resulted in damage to the project assets and
operations ceased.
On balance, the project is rated unsatisfactory. Institutional objectives were
achieved only partially and sustainability appears unlikely. In Part II, the Borrower
highlights the undesirability of proceeding with such a complex project without a prior
pilot phase backed up by market surveys. Also noted are the shortcomings in the quality
of technical assistance funded under the credit and the disruptions related to staff
turnover in the Bank.
The PCR gives a frank and satisfactory account of project experience, although
there are no comments from the cofinancier (UNDP). No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SEEDS PROJECT
(Cr. 1609-ZR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .                  ....................................................  i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   .........................................   iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                                                       ..........  I
Project Identity .............................................                                                      1
Background ...............................................  1
Project Description and Objectives   ................................    1
Project Design and Organization  ..................................    2
Project Implementation  ........................................    3
Project Results  ..............................................    7
Sustainability ...............................................  8
Performance of the Bank   ......................................    8
Performance of the Borrower ....................................    9
Performance of the Consultants   ..................................    9
Documentation ............................................  10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....11.....  1
PART  IH: STATISTICAL  INFORMATION    ...............................    17
Table 1: Related IDA  Credits ....................................                                                 17
Table 2: Project Timetable   ....................................                                                  18
Table 3: Project Costs and Financing  ..............................                                               18
Table 4: Government Counterpart Funding   ..........................    19
Table 5: Disbursements   ......................................                                                   20
Table 6: Sales of Produce  .....................................                                                  21
Table 7: Seed Production   .....................................                                                  22
Table 8: Prices of Controlled Seeds  ...............................                                              25
Table 9: Project Results  ......................................                                                  26
Table 10: Training and Technical Assistance  .........................    28
Table 11: Economic Analysis ...................................                                                   30
Table 12: Status of Covenants   ..................................                                                32
Table 13: Use of Bank Resources  ................................    33
Maps:
IBRD 18447: Development Structures, Major Foodcrop Areas
IBRD 18448: Seed Production and Agricultural Research Centers
IBRD 18449: Rainfall and Elevation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SEEDS PROJECT
(Cr. 1609-ZR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Seeds Project, for which Credit 1609-
ZR, in the amount of US$14.9 million (SDR 15.1 million), was approved on June 13, 1985. The
Credit was closed on June 30, 1992, 12 months behind schedule. Disbursements of this Credit were
suspended as of February 22, 1992, for non-compliance with the conditions of the Development
Credit Agreement related to provision of counterpart funds, staffing of key positions, the execution
of operational objectives and of misuse of the Special Account. The undisbursed balance of US$5.7
million (SDR 5.8 million) was cancelled on June 30, 1992. The United Nations Development
Program provided parallel financing for several project activities in the amount of US$4.55 million.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the South-Central and
Indian Ocean Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part III). This report is based,
inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, the Mid-term
Evaluation Report, Supervision Reports, Project Progress Reports and correspondence.  The
Borrower's comments on the PCR are presented in Part II.



I



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SEEDS PROJECT
(Cr. 1609-ZR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    At the time of project preparation, in 1983/84, agriculture provided direct employment to
about 75% of the labor force, as well as to an additional 10% employed in agro-industrial
processing. The sector's contribution to GDP was about 30%. As a result of the political upheaval
of the 1960s, the nationalization policy and the deteriorating infrastructure, the quality of applied
technology and the quality of seeds used by small-scale farmers declined, resulting in steadily
declining productivity. Government tried to redress the situation through the establishment of Food
Commodity Programs, aimed at improving the quality of agricultural research, seed supply and
extension, as well as the links between these essential services. Efforts to create seed supply systems
in the 1970s failed due to the uncertain political climate. In 1982, the Government sought donor
support for a long-term seed supply policy, in order to increase agricultural productivity, and hence
production, and to reduce the country's dependence on external sources of seeds and food.
Project Objectives
2.    The project aimed to assist Government in developing a self-sustaining and viable seed
industry, to improve seed quality and to increase the production of improved and controlled seeds,
as well as cassava cuttings. It intended to promote the integration of the private sector in the seed
industry, to develop five seed farms, to produce 2,000 tons of controlled seeds in year five of the
project and to serve about 20% of the small-scale farmers. In support of these objectives the project
was to establish a National Seed Bureau, with seed quality control capacity, and formulate a draft
legislation for seed quality control. Funds were also to be provided for improvement of the links
between seed multiplication and research and extension, as well as for staff training.
Implementation
3.    The credit was declared effective on April 30, 1986, a delay of four months. Implementation
of the physical components during the first years of the project progressed well, after initial delays.
The National Seed Bureau became operational early on, and after three years, four new seed farms
had been established, as well as the seed testing laboratories. The private sector was involved
through the participation of two private seed farms and other private enterprises managing three seed
farms. This promising start tempted project management to overextend itself through expansion into
more seed farms and coverage of new crops. In contrast, the production of cassava cuttings was
seriously neglected. The project succeeded in preparing a draft seed legislation, with its supporting
documentation and to train staff to execute quality control functions. It failed, however, to develop
an effective seed marketing system, due to overriding production problems, Government's



- iv -
interference in seed distribution and the low priority accorded to this activity by project management.
The deficient supply of homogeneous base seeds by research stations was a major production
bottleneck, which forced seed farm management to take over this task. Estimated and actual project
achievements are shown in Table 9, Part III.
4.    In later years, the lack of Government commitment to the success of the project and slipping
management discipline contributed to the decline in project implementation. The political events of
September 1991 brought the project to a halt. Project staff tried to revitalize project activities, but
misuse of the Special Account led to the suspension of disbursements in February 1992. Finally,
Government's non-compliance with conditions of the Development Credit Agreement, related to the
provision of counterpart funding, staffing of key positions, and execution of project objectives, led
to the closing of the credit on June 30, 1992, and the cancellation of the undisbursed balance of
US$5.7 million.
5.     Actual project costs are US$19.6 million (US$21.3 million estimated).  Government
contributed US$1.3 million (US$2.01 estimated), UNDP contributed US$4.55 million (US$1.9
million estimated), IDA contributed US$12.4 million (US$14.9 million estimated) and revenues from
seed sales contributed US$0.4 million (US$2.5 million estimated).
Results
6.     Project results were a mixture of success and failure. The overall results, however, were
unsatisfactory. The project's main achievement consisted in setting up a seed industry, which was
its primary goal. It was, however, Government's lack of commitment to support this achievement,
combined with the inability of seed farms to become self-financing through seed sales, as a result of
Government interference and over-extension, which undermined further progress. The development
of eight seed farms (five planned) and the technical assistance to five seed producing regional
development projects surpassed the original planning. The seed farms included two privately owned
enterprises, while the others were developed with a commercial orientation. Their management
structures remained, however, weak and vulnerable, and project management tended to centralize
activities. The project fell substantially short of controlled seed production goals and the
multiplication of improved cassava cuttings. Moreover, because of weak linkages with extension
services and deficiencies in the distribution and marketing systems, the project has not been able to
achieve the goal of reaching 20% of small-scale farmers. The seed farms set the prices of improved
seeds independently and adequately, and succeeded in maintaining a stable, and sometimes increasing
price level. Though reliable cost accounting was not available, the information provided suggests that
the applied seed prices recovered the recurrent costs of multiplication and distribution of maize and
rice seeds, but not for those of other crops.
7.     The project succeeded in developing a seed quality control system. Project staff acquired,
through training and external technical assistance, the technological know-how to enable the National
Seed Bureau to provide technical advice on seed multiplication technology and to enforce seed quality
control regulations. If this know-how is not preserved, the institutional impact of the project will be
slight and short.
8.    The project did not develop a monitoring system that could have provided reliable information
on the impact of its seed production on farm-level production. However, on the basis of the project's
and seed farms' progress and supervision reports, an estimate was made of incremental production,



as a result of the project, and total project costs. Total benefits proved to be less than total costs,
and hence the economic rate of return is negative, mainly due to the precipitous decline of project
activities in later years, and to the absence of incremental cassava production (see Table 11, Part III).
Sustainability
9.     Even before the current political events, Government failed to provide adequate commitment
to the success of the project, and internal management discipline was slipping. The project in its
actual design proved to be unsustainable without donor financing. The National Seed Bureau should
have restricted its activities to technical advice and seed quality control, and the publicly managed
seed farms should have been transferred to the private sector. Effective varietal development and
strengthening of the extension service in order to improve farmer capability of on-farm seed
collection are critical prerequisites.
Lessons Learned
10.    The following are the main lessons learned from the project:
(i)    There is a need for more focussed and simpler projects, commensurate with available
management capabilities. In the conditions prevailing in Zaire, efforts should have
been more oriented toward improved seed production and multiplication in
collaboration with farmers rather than the establishment of capital-intensive and
sophisticated commercial seed farms.
(ii)    Project experience confirms that the adequate status and advance of varietal
improvement is critical for the success of seed multiplication efforts.
(iii)   The performance of the Borrower illustrates the need to apply credit conditionality
more explicitly and consistently.
(iv)   Experience with project supervision suggests that more resources for supervision
should be made available for critical projects of this kind in country circumstances
which are complex, such as Zaire.
(v)    Adoption of a satisfactory legal framework for the seeds supply sub-sector should be
a condition for any future Bank support to the seed industry.






- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SEEDS PROJECT
(Cr. 1609-ZR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name        .      Seeds Project
Credit Number              1609-ZR
Region                     Africa
Country                    Zaire
Sector              :      Agriculture
Subsector                  Seed supply systems
2.    Background
2.1    At the time of project preparation, in 1983/84, agriculture provided direct employment to
about 75% of the labor force, as well as to an additional 10% employed in agro-industrial processing.
Three to four million small-scale farmers produced food crops, such as cassava, plantains, rice,
groundnuts and beans, providing about 60% of agricultural production. The remainder came from
large plantations producing palm oil, coffee, rubber and cocoa, mainly for export. As a result of the
political upheavals of the 1960s, the nationalization policy and a deteriorating infrastructure, the
quality of applied technology and the quality of seeds used by small-scale farmers declined, resulting
in steadily decreasing productivity.  Government tried to redress the situation through the
establishment of Food Commodity Programs that aimed at improving the quality of agricultural
research, seed supply and agricultural extension, as well as the links between these essential services.
A seed supply network was established in the 1970s, but it failed to develop due to the uncertain
political climate. Other attempts to safeguard seed supply, mainly for maize, failed after initial
success, due to the lack of public support and limited outside assistance. In 1982, the Government
sought donor support for a long-term seed supply policy at the Agricultural Consultative Group
meeting in Paris in order to increase agricultural productivity, and thus reduce the country's
dependence on external sources of food.
3.    Project Description and Objectives
3.1    The purpose of the project was to assist Government in its long-term effort to develop a self-
sustaining and commercially viable seed industry. The project was to improve seed quality and
increase the production of improved and controlled seeds of major foodcrops and of cassava cuttings.
It not only dealt with multiplication, processing and marketing of seeds, but also addressed upstream
problems of the supply of base seeds by research, and downstream problems of seed promotion and



-2 -
farmer acceptance through extension efforts. A National Seed Bureau was to be established to
implement the project. It was to further integrate the private sector into the industry and to gradually
reduce Government involvement to a regulatory role.
3.2    The following were the components of the project, which was to be implemented over a five-
year period:
(a)    establishment of and support for the operation of a National Seed Bureau
(BUNASEM);
(b)    development and operational support of five central seed farms, including installation
of seed processing equipment, seed storage facilities, and of a seed marketing
structure for the farms' areas of influence. The farms would produce maize, rice,
groundnuts, beans and soja seeds, and cassava cuttings. It aimed to cultivate, after
five years, an area of 1,000 ha, producing a total of 2,200 tons of controlled seeds
annually;
(c)    development of a seed quality control capacity, including establishment and
operational support of a central seed testing laboratory and five seed farm
laboratories, and the preparation of a draft law for seed quality control, including its
supporting technical documentation;
(d)    assistance to secondary farms, and independent seed producing entities, including
technical assistance and minor equipment;
(e)    improvement of the production and maintenance of base seeds at major agricultural
research stations;
(f)   technical assistance to support the management of the National Seed Bureau, the seed
farms and the seed testing laboratories, including 214 man-months of international
specialists; and
(g)    development of a training program, and the execution of studies and pilot projects
related to the seed industry, in particular to promote the local production of maize
hybrid seeds.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1    The project was designed to give BUNASEM  after two years of implementation an
independent legal status, with administrative and financial autonomy and its own budget, in order to
have flexibility in project implementation and to effectively coordinate between all partners in the
seed industry. Furthermore, it was to promote autonomous and commercially oriented management
of the seed farms. In these two aspects, the project underestimated the institutional obstacles and
staffing problems. The project was also to implement the missing link between varietal improvement
and farmers' needs and seed collection at the farm level. As such, it was a new and necessary
venture in Zaire, but it was too ambitious at the design scale. The assumption that research activities
and extension services would concurrently develop, proved over-optimistic. In view of this, project
- - - - - - - -   - - - - ~ ~ ~



- 3 -
results remained increasingly below expectations, and were, in later years, jeopardized by delays in
counterpart funding, Government's failure to pay for seed purchases by public entities, and
Government's increasing interference in project and farm management (in administration, staffing,
seed distribution and pricing). These risks had not been identified at the time of appraisal.
4.2    BUNASEM was to be responsible for project implementation. A National Seed Council,
consisting of representatives of related ministries, the research community, the private sector, Non-
Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and farmers, was to be established to advise the Minister of
Agriculture (DARD) on future seed supply policy and to give guidance to BUNASEM. Project
management was to collaborate with the National Institute for Agricultural Studies and Research
(INERA) for the supply of base seeds. It was to provide technical assistance to seed farms, which
were to be fully responsible for seed production and marketing activities. It was to work in tandem
with staff of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) responsible for the implementation of the
United Nations Development Program (UNDP) Seeds Project (UNDP/FAO ZAI 83/003), which
supported the following activities:  development of a seed quality control system  (including
laboratories and drafting of seed legislation), technical assistance and promotion.
4.3    Several changes in project design were made at the time of appraisal. These changes were
related to: (i) adequate provision of base seeds from research centers; (ii) the promotion and
marketing function of the seed farms; and (iii) the coordinating role of BUNASEM.
5.    Proiect Implementation
5.A.  General
5.1    From 1986 to 1987 progress in project implementation seemed promising. The overall rating
of the project remained "2, minor problems' during the 1988-89 period, with minor financial and
management problems. The mid-term review mission in 1989, however, signaled serious problems
related to deficiencies in the supply of base seeds, project financing and administration, and
institutional problems in the seed industry. Project management had emphasized further expansion
of the seed farm network and the inclusion of seed production of additional crops, instead of
concentrating on the initial core program. Thus, the project became over-stretched, with diminishing
Government support. Attempts to redress the situation were only partially successful. Planned and
actual project achievements are shown in Table 9, Part III).
5.A. 1. Effectiveness
5.2    The credit was declared effective on April 30, 1986, a delay of four months. The main
causes were the late recruitment of consultants and delays in finalizing the agreements between
BUNASEM and the seed farm management agencies.
5.A.2. Project cost and financing
5.3    Actual project costs amount to US$19.6 million (US$21.3 million estimated).  The
Government contributed US$1.3 million (US$2.01 estimated). UNDP contributed US$4.55 million--
far in excess of original estimates (US$1.9 estimated). UNDP financing was increased in order to
synchronize their activities with the IDA financed project. UNDP also made numerous revisions to



- 4 -
its project to finance additional activities of the seed project. The IDA contribution amounted to
US$12.4 million (US$14.9 estimated). The contribution from seed sales remained far below
expectations-US$0.4 million actual versus US$2.5 million estimated. The total value of seed sales
is low because: (i) a large part had to be sold as consumption grains at lower prices when market
outlets failed to materialize; and (ii) the sales value of the two privately owned farms in the Shaba
region, which benefitted from project assistance, are not included in this figure. Estimated versus
actual project costs and sources of financing are shown in Table 3, Part III, and the sales of produce
in Table 6, Part III.
5.A.3. Disbursementa
5.4    The initial disbursement lag, due to slow consultant recruitment and delayed imports of
equipment, was recovered by 1988, two years after credit effectiveness. Disbursements lagged again
thereafter, mainly due to procurement delays for civil works, spare parts and materials, because
project staff was inexperienced with IDA procurement procedures, and because of insufficient
counterpart funding. The credit agreement was revised on January 16, 1991, in an attempt to resolve
the situation. At this time, IDA financing of expenditures in local currency for civil works was
increased from 55 to 85 percent. However, the change was too late to have any meaningful effect
on project implementation. The project grossly underrated the difficulties in establishing seed
processing operations in far-off places in Zaire; as a result, the category for start-up operations had
to be substantially increased. Disbursements reached 82% of estimated costs expressed in US dollars,
62% in SDRs (details are shown in Table 5, Part III).
5.5   In order to keep the project functioning, in the face of inadequate counterpart funding, project
staff used the Special Account for ineligible expenditures and the Government failed to reimburse the
Special Account when requested (the amount involved was US$135,670). This was one reason for
the suspension of disbursements in February 1992. Other reasons included non-compliance with the
conditions of the Development Credit Agreement related to the provisioning of counterpart funding,
the staffing of key positions, and execution of project objectives. IDA closed the credit and cancelled
the undisbursed balance of SDR 5.8 (US$5.7 million equivalent) as of June 30, 1992.
5.A.4. Procurement
5.6    Procurement followed Bank guidelines. Although there were no cases of misprocurement,
there were a few cases of submission of non-warranted requests and frequent delays in providing
documentation, requiring heavy supervision. The frequent replacement of consultants added to the
procurement burden.
5.B.  Individual project components
5.B. 1. Establishment of the National Seed Bureau
5.7    The National Seed Bureau (BUNASEM) was established in 1984, a year ahead of project
approval, and subsequently organized with FAO assistance. At the date of credit effectiveness the
bureau was fully operational, and functioned as an autonomous unit within the Ministry of
Agriculture. Government failed, however, to give BUNASEM an independent legal status. On the
contrary, it interfered increasingly in BUNASEM's operations and downgraded it into an
administrative unit within the Ministry in 1990. Its name was changed to National Seed Service



- 5 -
(SENASEM). The Bank objected to this move, but was prevented from taking formal action, as the
language in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was ambiguous. The establishment of the
National Seed Council by the Government was postponed indefinitely, despite explicit language in
the DCA mandating such establishment before December 31, 1986. No formal Bank action was
taken.
5.B.2. Development of seed farms
5.8   In 1988, eight seed farms were operational, as compared to five planned. Four new farms
were established, two farms were taken over from closing development projects, and two privately
owned farms were provided with conditioning equipment. The project gave operational support to
six government-owned seed farms; support to the two privately owned farms was limited to technical
assistance. The average area used for seed multiplication was 1,032 ha during the 1988-90 campaigns
(1,000 ha estimated). Seed processing, conditioning and storage equipment were installed at 7 farms
(5 planned), more details about the seed farms are shown in Table 7, Part III.
5.9    The seed farms extended their multiplication program to eight new crops, in an attempt to
meet local demands. In particular the production of cotton seeds proved successful at two farms.
While the farms responded to local demands for seed, they failed to satisfy the demand for cassava
cuttings. The massive thefts in the field, the serious transportation problems and Government's
insistence to delegate all cassava related activities to the National Cassava Program (PRONAM) were
the main reasons. Repeated urging by supervision missions resulted only in minor production of
cuttings in 1990. Total production was thus limited to 43 km of cuttings, versus 5,400 km estimated
at appraisal.
5.B.3. Seed guality control capacity
5.10   The seed quality control capacity was systematically developed, with substantial assistance
from UNDP. The project established a central seed testing laboratory, one regional and six farm
laboratories, all with adequate equipment. It also trained an adequate number of laboratory assistants
and field inspectors. A draft law for seed quality control and for Government's regulatory functions
in this matter was completed in October 1990, about two years after the planned date (the original
date was unrealistic). However, enactment of the law was not part of credit conditionality. In the
future, adoption of a satisfactory legal framework should be a condition of Bank's involvement in the
seed industry.
5.B.4. Assistance to secondary farms
5.11   Assistance to secondary farms was only minor during the first years. Starting in 1989,
BUNASEM got more involved in reviving the Agricultural Centers for the Multiplication of Improved
Seeds (CAPSAs), developed in the 1970s with Belgian assistance, but later neglected due to political
events that led to cut-offs in Belgian bilateral assistance. BUNASEM assisted in personnel training
and seeds provisioning.



- 6 -
5.B.5. Improvement of the production and maintenance of base seeds
5.12   Originally, SENASEM and the major operational research stations had agreed that: (a) the
research stations would supply a specified amount of base seeds to the seed farms 1/; and (b)
SENASEM would provide financial support to the research stations. The implementation of these
agreements proved to be difficult because: (i) the amounts of base seeds delivered were insufficient,
often too late or too heterogeneous to be useful, and (ii) the stations complained about irregular
financial support from SENASEM. In view of this, the seed farms undertook to develop their own
base seeds, thus increasing seed production costs and adding a heavy burden to an already difficult
task. With the strengthening of the research structure in 1989-90, the cooperation between research
and seed farm staff improved significantly. The support for rice seed multiplication under a national
rice program--to be assisted by the Italian Government--was not realized due to delays in the
agreement between the Govermnent of Zaire and the Italian authorities.
5.B.6. Technical assistance
5.13   The project provided for 214 man-months of international experts to assist SENASEM. At
headquarters, three specialists were to be employed: a financial/management specialist, a seed
production technologist and a marketing specialist; at the seed farm level specialists were to assist the
farm managers until the key staff was sufficiently experienced to carry out their tasks. The
financial/management advisor position was continuously filled for six years; the seed production
specialist was provided by the UNDP project; but for the position of marketing specialist, no suitable
candidate could be found. At the farm level, three specialists were employed for 3-5 years, while
the project also financed ad hoc visits by seed specialists for about 10 man-months (details are shown
in Table 10, Part III).
5.B.7. Trainine. pilot programs and studies
5.14   The training program, though not organized as planned, was effectively carried out. The
UNDP project financed most of the local training and short visits abroad, and the Bank financed stays
abroad of longer duration, as well as visits of specialists to Zaire to give on-the-job training. A pilot
project for the local production of maize hybrid seeds was started in 1988. Other pilot projects were
dropped due to organizational problems. Delays in the planned farm development and civil
disturbances in 1991 made the carrying out of studies pointless. Details are shown in Table 10, Part
Ill.
1/    For the purpose of this PCR, seed production is done in three stages: (i) foundation
seed is produced under strictly controlled conditions at a research station; (ii) base
seed is produced from foundation seed under controlled conditions to ascertain genetic
purity; and (iii) controlled seeds are produced in turn from the base seeds at the seed
farms.



-7 -
6.    Project Results
6.1    General
6.1.1  Project results have been mixed. The project failed to develop an effective seed distribution
and marketing system, because project management over-emphasized the extension of the seed farm
network but gave low priority to marketing. Furthermore, the project was expected to have a
significant impact on cassava production through the production and distribution of cuttings of
improved cassava varieties. Due to the late start of this activity (1990) and the small number of
cuttings distributed, its impact on agricultural production has been negligible. Contributing factors
to the disappointing results have been Government's weakening commitment to the principles adopted
at the outset of the project, the inadequate base seed supply and a revitalization of the extension
services at too late a stage (1990).
6.1.2 The project was successful in establishing new seed farms, integrating two private seed farms
into the seed industry, providing assistance to outside seed producing projects and to varietal
improvement. It also completed a draft law on seed quality control, with its supporting technical
documentation, and developed a blueprint for cataloguing seed varieties. However, the enactment
of the seed law is still pending and management of seed farms is still weak. The civil disturbance
in late 1991 destroyed the laboratories and one of the best performing seed farms in Shaba.
6.2    Production
6.2.1 Actual production of controlled and conditioned seeds was disappointing. It amounted to 913
tons in 1989, as compared to 2,239 tons estimated. The reasons are diverse. First, the heterogeneity
of base seeds necessitated rejections in the field. Progress in improving maize and rice base seeds
were made, but results were noticeable only after 1990. Second, the lack of experience with
conditioning equipment further reduced the controlled and conditioned seed to harvested seed ratio
to an average of only 54% (80% planned). With a higher ratio controlled and conditioned seed
production would have reached about 1,600 tons. Finally the newly established seed farms had to
overcome agronomic problems, which reduced yields (e.g. weed infections--especially Striga-, plant
diseases, drainage and lack of irrigation). For maize and rice the project was well on its way to
overcome the above problems, when civil disturbances stopped progress in 1991. However, several
more years of development work would have been needed for the other crops. Production of cassava
cuttings was less than one percent of the planned quantity (para. 5.9). Details are shown in Table
7C, Part III.
6.3.   Marketing
6.3.1 Price setting of controlled maize and rice seeds by BUNASEM was such that only operating
costs could be recovered (relatively high yields and high consumer prices). Controlled seeds of other
crops commanded inadequate prices, because of relatively low yields and low consumer prices. They
will therefore continue to be unprofitable, until the on-going research effort produces higher yielding
varieties (details are shown in Table 8, Part III).
6.3.2 The project did not develop a satisfactory marketing structure for commercial seeds. First,
project design was deficient in limiting itself to providing funds for the employment of an external
marketing specialist, instead of preparing a blueprint for a marketing system and providing funds for



-8 -
specific actions. Second, project management was not eager to push a sales structure (having already
many other problems and the Ministry interfering), which would have added another 50% to the seed
production costs (transport, wholesale and retail commissions and some additional investments).
Third, farm management failed to involve extension workers and farmers in the conceptualization and
creation of a distribution system. Fourth, deliveries of improved seeds to a Food Security Program
(PRAAL) in 1988 and 1989, at the request of the Ministry of Agriculture, took away some of the
urgency to find other commercial outlets in the early years of the project.
7.    Rate of Return
7.1    The economic rate of return is negative.  The incremental farm production was only
satisfactory for maize, rice and soybeans. Especially the lack of incremental cassava production had
a decisively negative impact on the rate of return, since it was considered to be the main source of
benefits. The total amount of benefits remained well below the total project costs for the 1985-1992
period. Due to Government's lack of support after 1989, the civic unrest in 1991, and the ensuing
damages to project assets, future benefits will not be enough to cover project costs, even though
project staff and private farms have started to revive seed production. Details are given in Table 11,
Part III.
8.    Sustainability
8.1    Even before the current political situation, Government failed to provide adequate support to
the project, and management discipline was slipping. The project in its actual design proved to be
unsustainable without donor financing. SENASEM should have restricted its activities to technical
advice and quality control and the publicly managed seed farms should have been transferred to the
private sector. Effective varietal development and strengthening of the extension service to improve
farmers capability of on-farm seed collection are critical prerequisites.
9.    Performance of the Bank
9.1    From the outset the Bank realized the difficulties and the high costs of supervising a
nationwide project in Zaire. Limited resources, however, led to a low supervision frequency, with
limited staffing of missions (details are shown in Table 9, Part III). The promising start of the
project, receiving general support, obscured the need for extra supervision. The Bank's efforts to
employ a marketing specialist at an early stage were inadequate. The mid-term review mission in
January 1989 concluded that project implementation was satisfactory in light of Zaire's difficult
economic circumstances. However, it was clear at the time that project objectives would not be fully
met. The mid-term review focussed on managerial and technical issues, and paid insufficient
attention to marketing issues. None of the recommendations in the Staff Appraisal Report relating
to the marketing of seeds had been implemented, nor were there any plans to do so. An important
criticism on Bank performance is that credit conditionality was not consistently applied until late in
project implementation (para. 5.5 and 5.7).



- 9 -
9.2    Cooperation with co-financiers. The relations between UNDP and the Bank, related to the
seed project, have been good. The cooperation between UNDP, FAO, Bank and project staff was
also good and productive.
10.   Performance of the Borrower
10.1   After initially providing adequate support, Government reduced its support to the project in
later years. Shortages of counterpart funding and non-payment of seed purchases by PRAAL created
serious cashflow problems for SENASEM and the seed farms. In addition, Government interfered
in marketing matters by instructing seed deliveries (often over unjustifiably long distances) to public
entities, and by distributing those seeds at prices below those of the supplying seed farm. It also
intervened in the organization of SENASEM through, inter alia, excessive administrative requirements
and changes in key staff positions. Given the important financial contributions from the two
cofinanciers, the operations at the seed farm continued but at a diminishing pace, and Governmnent's
lack of commitment finally led to credit closing.
10.2   There are two aspects in the performance of SENASEM. On the one hand, it was dynamic
in mastering the institutional implications, and the technology of seed multiplication and seed quality
control. On the other hand, it saw its role in the seed industry as that of an actor rather than as an
advisor, leading to over-extension and over-centralization. With the acquired know-how and
equipment, and with continued international contacts, but without responsibility for seed
multiplication or marketing, SENASEM would be able to advise on seed policy and technology, and
to enforce seed regulations.
11.   Performance of the Consultants
11.1  There have been frequent changes in consultants due to difficult working conditions in the
field, and also due to family reasons. As a result, the impact of external consultants remained below
the expected level. The first financial advisor devised an overly sophisticated accounting system.
His replacement, after developing a more practical system, got too much involved in the day-to-day
administrative matters of SENASEM. The introduction of the system and the training of local
administrative staff at the seed farms, therefore, had to be contracted out to local agencies. The
absence of a marketing consultant forced consultants at the seed farms to divert much of their time
to marketing matters. In spite of these problems, the presence of the consultants at the seed farms
has been essential to the development of these farms.
11.2   Auditing of project finances proved to be time consuming and extremely expensive because
it covered a nationwide project and dealt with four private enterprises. Nine separate reports - for
SENASEM and one for each of the eight seed farms - had to be prepared. The initial auditing firm
had to be replaced because its staff was unprepared to deal with a project of this size. The second
auditing firm made several recommendations for administrative improvements, which SENASEM
only adopted after long delays.



- 10-
12.    Documentation
12.1  Implementation reports were, with some exceptions, available throughout the project period,
up to and including the report for the first semester of 1991. Also, reports were prepared for each
seed farm separately, initially in different layout and quality, but 1990 seed farm reports provide
comparable and reasonably reliable data. These reports include mostly technical data. Information
on marketing results, related to prices and farmer response, are incomplete.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SEEDS PROJECT
(Cr. 1609-ZR)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE V
INRODUCTION
The National Seed Plan is one of Zaire's foremost agricultural priorities. Seeds have
an important role to play in revitalizing agricultural extension.
The SENASEM Project was jointly financed by the World Bank (IDA Credit 1609-
ZR), UNDP (Project ZA1183/0031C/01), and the Government of Zaire.
OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT
The principal objective of the SENASEM Project was to meet the country's needs
for improved seeds by establishing a seed industry.
The project was intended essentially to provide technical assistance to the Ministry
of Agriculture and Rural Development and to the government agencies responsible for implementing
the National Seed Plan.
The goal of the plan was to improve the country's supply of seeds, to help bring
about self-sufficiency in food, to control the quality of seeds -as well as of the cassava cuttings-
to formulate a draft seed law, and to train Zairian managers.
The project thus had two distinct but complementary functions, i.e.:
*     coordination of seed production and training of personnel for the seed
industry; and
*     quality certification of seeds and cuttings.
A distribution and marketing system was to be developed in tandem with the
supervisory bodies, seed farms, and economic agents for production, promotion and dissemination.
A good network of planters, seedsmen and seed multipliers was to be coordinated
effectively to assure seeds were distributed when needed and to guarantee competitive prices.
2/    Comments from the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.



- 12 -
1.    Performance in terms of financial execution
Total project cost was estimated at US$1.3 million. UNDP's contribution was
US$4.55 million, compared to an estimate of US$1.9 million; that of IDA amounted to US$12.35
million compared to an estimate of US$14.9 million. On the other hand, the Government's
contribution was about US$1.31 million, compared to an estimate of US$2.01 million. This low
government funding level was due to the country's difficult economic situation.
Moreover, despite the presence of the expatriate Financial Advisor, the contract
awards were severely flawed. For example, the failure by the Financial Advisor to process necessary
arrangements in time with the Banque de Credit Agricole (BCA) prevented the transfer of funds from
the Special Project Account in Washington in accordance with IDA instructions. Accordingly, project
funds totaling US$35,000 are still sitting in the Banque de Credit Agricole. The continual turnover
of consultants also did much to compound the situation.
Given the particularly difficult situation facing the country, the Government was not
in a position to allocate enough resources on a regular basis to the Food Self-sufficiency Support
Program (PRAAL) and therefore could not honor its commitments to SENASEM.
Moreover, the change in the status of the project, when it was transferred to the
National Service, had not been envisaged in the Credit Agreement, which raised a serious problem
with respect to project financing.
2.    Performance in terms of physical execution
(a)    Creation and establishment of seed farms
*     Eight seed farms were established, compared to five planned, with a cultivated area
of 1,032 ha, compared to 1,000 ha planned.
*     The project also provided technical assistance to two private seed farms and lent
operational support to six seed farms.
*     Apart from the seed farms, the project helped to improve cropping systems and
provide extension services to small farmers.
(b)    Seed production
The Government is satisfied with the production of improved corn and paddy seeds.
On the other hand, results have not been encouraging in the case of groundnuts, beans and soya.
As for the production of cassava cuttings, results have been far below expectations,
with only 43 km of cuttings produced compared with projections of 5,400 km.



- 13 -
(c)    Quality corol
Six quality control laboratories were established, compared to five planned, but a few
of them are not fully operational owing to a shortage of equipment, material and operating funds.
120 seed samples have been tested. On the whole, the results are encouraging.
(d)    Marketin
Results are far from satisfactory because the project has not succeeded in installing
a marketing structure.
To begin with, the project failed to appreciate the vital role of the marketing program.
For lack of a marketing system, it reduced its chances of success. No industry can survive without
a good marketing system.
The project should not have earmarked the funds to recruit an outside marketing
expert and at the same time to fund recruitment of a Zairian counterpart with skills in the same area.
Tlhe arrangement shown below would undoubtedly have assured the success of the
project.
Applied Research             Quality Control             Dissemination
and Multiplication            (Laboratories)              Marketing
PRODUCTION                                            CONSUMPTION
I                                                             I
DEVELOPMENT CYCLE
The absence of such a system does much to explain the project's failure to perform well in this area.
In addition, earnings from seed sales have been far below projections (US$0.4 million
compared to US$2.5 million estimated, or 16% of the target figure), while the laboratories have been
unproductive.
In view of the absence of a marketing adviser, the seed experts have had to devote
much of their time to marketing activities. The same weaknesses were observed in the case of the
seed farms.
(e)    Preparation of a legal framework
During execution, the project prepared draft legislation on seed quality control. The
bill is currently under review by the National Assembly.



- 14 -
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
The weaknesses noted above, especially the lack of a marketing system, are largely
to blame for the negative economic rate of return which the project showed.
Output, particularly in the case of cassava cuttings, has been very low despite the fact
that cassava is the staple food and a major source of benefits in terms of the project's economic
factors.
THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
On the whole, the Bank's performance has been relatively satisfactory.
It has released more than 61% of its financial contribution. The decision to halt
disbursements under the credit in February 1992 and the closing of the credit on June 1, 1992 are
highly regrettable for a project on which the country had pinned high hopes. In this connection, the
Bank might have postponed its decision to close.
It is relevant to point out that, given the complexity of establishing a seed industry,
a project of this scope ought to have begun with a pilot phase backed up by thorough market surveys
(absorption capacity, financial profitability, interest in the sector on the part of private individuals,
etc.). Had these gaps been filled, all parties involved in the project might have been spared the errors
and weaknesses that marred its implementation. These errors and shortcomings caused the country
a sizable waste of resources.
With respect to the supervision missions, these should in future be carefully thought
through in terms of their minimum duration and the involvement of local experts in their conduct.
Also, the Bank should in future avoid the contradictions observed on occasions in the reports prepared
by two successive supervision missions. We have in mind, for example,  *  questioning of
earlier approval regarding the construction of SENASEM's headquarters. Another
example is the finding that all the IDA missions prior to those by  * had praised the progress
of activities under the SENASEM project. Suddenly, however, the supervision mission reports that
followed those by    *   all but impugned all achievements to date and thus put an end to any
words of praise regarding the project. Incidentally, the same situation arose with the PMKO project,
where the supervision missions prior to those by  * had warmly commended the results of the
PMKO project; unfortunately, the supervision missions by  *  contained completely opposite
opinions. If such differing assessments result from a change in the Bank's approach, the Bank ought
to accept responsibility for acknowledging up-front that its earlier approach has failed. A clear,
across-the-board policy statement on the Bank's supervision missions could resolve this issue.
Furthermore, the abrupt change in task manager has been partly to blame for the non-
performance of certain works initially approved by IDA. For example, the project had paid fees for
a construction expert for two years, but the expert has been unable to build the seed laboratory,
approval of which had been obtained but was called into question with the arrival of the new task
manager.
Names deleted for legal reasons.
-  ,-------     ----



- 15 -
The Ministry frequently deplores the at times discourteous language used by members
of Bank supervision missions in their dealings with members of the Government. This very often
happens when particular problems with the project persist. The Ministry would like to think that,
whatever the nature of a problem, courtesy should be the order of the day.
PERFORMANCE OF UNDP/FAO
(a)    Physical execution
The technical expertise, particularly regarding seeds in the case of UNDP, has been
satisfactory. However, the marketing side was left without the expert assistance expected, which
proved a serious handicap in achieving the project's goals.
(b)    Financial execution
UNDP's contributions were on the order of US$4.55 million versus US$1.9 million
estimated, i.e. 240% higher than expected. In addition, UNDP has continued its financial support
by instituting a second phase of the project for a period of 4 years and 4 months. This positive
attitude on the part of UNDP is greatly appreciated by the Zairian Government.
PERFORMANCE OF THE GOVERNMENT
The Government provided adequate financial support at project start-up. The
country's political and economic crisis did not allow the Government to continue to make its financial
contribution to the project on a regular basis. The same kind of difficulties prevented PRAAL from
making the reimbursements due to SENASEM.
PERFORMANCE OF SENASEM
SENASEM established seed farms and provided what financial support it could to
private farms for the production of seeds.
One positive achievement of the project has been to create the tools for analysis and
quality control of seeds that are currently in place.
PERFORMANCE OF THE CONSULTANTS
On the whole, the experts from UNDP/FAO performed relatively satisfactorily under
the at times difficult conditions prevailing in the country.
As regards the financial experts financed by the IDA Credit, there are grounds for
observing that their performance was lax. Indeed, the efforts of the first adviser produced an
unusable piece of work. As for the second, his performance did not live up to the Ministry's



- 16 -
expectations. This situation led to laborious and costly audits, inexplicable delays in the processing
of the financing documents, and failure to repatriate project funds on time.
RELATIONS BETWEEN SENASEM AND OTHER INSTITUTIONS
Cooperation between the project and the other institutions and programs (SNV,
SENAFIC, PNR, SENARAV, DAGP, SEP, DEEP, etc.) and with INERA was generally acceptable.
However, with a view to improving SENASEM's leadership, it would make sense
to design an effective management arrangement that will enable the department to which it is
responsible to steer clear of the weaknesses of the past.
CONCLUSION
To improve agricultural production, it is essential to pursue investments aimed at
boosting production of improved seeds and to establish a durable seed production line.
The National Seed Plan must have a realistic action plan and work in close col-
laboration with other national entities concerned with seed production, such as the National
Agricultural Extension Service, of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, and INERA
in the Ministry of Higher Education and Research, as well as private operators in the seed sub-sector
(farmers, multipliers and seed farms, etc.) and NGOs.
In general terms, the project was a technical success in terms of the production of
corn, rice and soya seeds. The project would have been profitable if the seed marketing side had
been implemented properly.
The agricultural country officer in the World Bank's Resident Mission in Kinshasa
worked commendably hard during the implementation and execution of the project. He deserves to
be encouraged.



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SEEDS PROJECT
(Cr. 1609-ZR)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related IDA Credits
[           Title                      Purpose           |Approved |    Status
Smallholder Maize Project   Improvement of farming       06/05/80   Closed
(Cr. 1040-ZR)               systems in project area,                06/30/90.
increase of maize production
and farmers' income.
Agricultural Technical       Institution building and    04/23/82   Closed
Assistance (Cr. 1244-ZR)    program implementation                  06/30/87.
strengthening.
Agricultural Sector         Follow-up technical assistance   10/20/88   On-going
Management and Institutional   project.
Development Project
Pilot Extension Project      Support to the development of  02/27/90   On-going
(Cr. 2096-ZR)               sustainable agricultural
extension services.
National Agricultural Research   Restructuring of agricultural    08/20/91  On-going
Project (Cr. 2292-ZR)        research and improvement of
foundation seeds supply.



- 18 -
Table 2: Proiect Time1able
Original                   Actual
Presentation 1/                                                                   June 82
Identification                                                                     1983
Preparation                                                                   March/May 84
Appraisal                                                                      June/July 84
Negotiations                                                                    4/29-5/3/85
Board Approval                                                                   06/13/85
Signing of Credit                                                                09/19/85
Effectiveness Date                                     12/18/85                  04/30/86
Completion Date                                        12/31/90                  06/30/92 I/
Closing Date                                           06/30/91                  06/30/92
Final Disbursement                                     06/30/91                  03/06/92
I/     By the Government of Zaire, at the Agricultural Consultative Group Meeting on Agriculture,
in Paris, June 1982.
2/      Civil works not completed.
Table 3: Project Costs and Financing
(in US$ million)
Estimated j/             Actual             Actual in X of
_________ ________ ________ __   _____ ________ ________Planned
Goverrnent of Zaire                    2.01 Z/                1.31                   65
Controlled Seed Sales                  2.47                   0.36 3/                15
IDA                                   14.88 i/               12.35 _I                83
Cofinancier (UNDP)                     1.89                   4.55                  241
TOTAL                                 21.25                  19.57                   92
1/      Staff Appraisal Report.
_1     Includes US$0.06 million in taxes and duties.
I/      Includes payments for seeds sold by the seed farms with project funding for
investment and operations. The amount of seed sales by the 2 private seed farms in
Shaba totaled US$1.1 million.
4/      Expressed in SDRs the figures are respectively SDR  15.1 million and SDR 9.31
million.



- 19 -
Table 4: Government Counterpart Funding
(in US$'00 equivalent)
Amoumt transferred to SEMASEM from
Year             Goverrnment Investment Budget                       Source
1984                           100                         Project acdinistration
1985                            55                         Project adninistration
1986                           200                         Project adninistration
1987                           389                         Project adninistration
1988                           100                         Project administration
1989                           363                         Audit reports
1990                            25                         Audit reports
1991                            76                         Bank
1992                             2 1/                      Bank
TOTAL                        1,310
11       Part of 1991 Budget, paid in 1992.



- 20 -
Table 5: Disbursements
A. Estimated versus Actual Disbursements
(in US$'000)
Fiscal Year      Estimated Cumulative        Actual Cumulative      Actual as I
of
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __   ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __ Estima   ted
1985                    500                                           0
1986                  1,500                      398                 27
1987                 3,936                      1,383                35
1988                 6,754                     6,339                 94
1989                 9,796                     8,281                 85
1990                 12,836                    9,952                 78
1991                 14,880                    11,739                79
1992                    .                      12,346                84
(in SDR'OOO)
1992                 15,100           1         9,313     1          62
1/      Disbursements were suspended as of February 22, 1992.  The undisbursed balance
of Cr. 1609-ZR of 5,787,034.46 SOR was cancelled as of June 30, 1992.
B. Disbursements by Category
(in SDR'00)
Category                    Estimated          Last          Actual       Actual as X
l _____________________________________      __________    reallocation   3/               of   Estimated
1.  Civil works  /
a) buiLdings                          2,440            2,000             44            1.8
b) infrastructure                        910             500             53            5.8
2.  Machinery and Equipment
a) heavy equipment, farm
equipment, vehicLes, machinery        1,920            1,920          1,446          75.3
b) processing, storage and
laboratory equipment                  1,210           1,500            910           75.2
3.  Operating costs
a) organization and research          1,110              800            576          51.9
b) start-up operations                1,010            4,000         3,011           33.5
c) laboratory, training,
studies, pilot programs               1,520              500           388           25.5
4.  Consultants and Expert Services            3,330           3,000          2,533           76.1
5.  Refunding of Project Preparation             500             298            298           59.6
Advances                               1,150             582            -
6.  Unallocated
Exchange rate fLuctuations V/              .                                54
TOTAL                       15,100          15,100          9,313           61.7
j.I     The percentage of expenditures to be financed from category 1 was changed (1/14/91) from
100X of foreign expenditures and 55X of LocaL expenditures to 100X of foreign expenditures
and 85X of LocaL expenditures.
V/       Fluctuations occurred between the date of deposit at the Special Account and the credit
closing date.
First reallocation was approved 3/25/88.  The last was made on 12/20/89.



- 21 -
Table 6: Sales of Produce 1/
(in US$'000 equivalent)
Seed Farm           1986-1988           1989              1990             1991             TOTAL
Lombo                      103               151              100              20                374
Mpoyi                         1               10                3                2                16
Lusanga                       1                5                7                1                14
Dingila                       1               22               49               11                83
Bili                                          23               16               3                 42
Kisamba                                         1                1               1                 3
Unpaid sales 2/            (14)              (76)             (82)                              (172)
Sub-total 3/                92               136               94              37                360
Mbeko-Shaba                247               342              346               -                935
SAGRICIN                   107                36              121              20                284
Unpaid sales 2/            (21)               -               (50)              -                (71)
Sub-total 4/               333               378              417               20             1,148
TOTAL                      425               514              511              57              1,508
1/       Includes sales of commercial seeds and grains for consumption.  For conversion in USS the average
exchange rates were used. Value of 1991 stock was not known. Most was lost, however, in the
Septefiber 1991 unrest.
jI       Unpaid sales to PRAAL totaling USS243,000 over the 1988-90 period.
O/       Sub-total for seed farms with project funding for investments and operations.
4/       Sub-total for seed farms having received an advance for installing seed conditioning equipment and
a laboratory. They operate at own risk.
Sources:
1986-88 -         Project information.  The Mpoyi, Lusanga and Dingila farms had only minor sales.
1989-90 -         Price Waterhouse audit reports.
1991- - -         Bank estimate based on Dingila experience and status reports after the civic disturbances
in September 1991.



- 22 -
Table 7: Seed Productio
A. Location of Seed Farms
Seed farm           Region              Management j/         Cleared area        Installed        Supplier of
(ha) 2        conditioning       conditioning
l_____________      _____________________      ____________       capacity     3/     machinery
Lombo             Bas-Zaire          SENASEN force account            200        1000-1500          HEID _/
Mpoyi             Kasai Oriental    SENASEM force account             500         600-1000          Ballarini 4/
Lusanga           Banduidu           PLZ                              250        1000-1500          HEID
Bili _/           Equateur           Coton-Zaire                      100 A/          -
Dingila           Haut Zaire          CODEHORD                        150         600-1000          BaLLarini
Kisamba 5/        Sud-Kivu           SEWASEM force account             50         100-500           FAO D
Mbeko-Shaba       Shaba              TRABEZA                          300        1000-1500          HEID
SAGRICIM          Shaba              CIMSHABA                         250        1000-1500          HEID
Technical assistance was provided to five seed producing regional development projects or iGOs.
PLZ * Plantation Lever Zaire.  PLZ sold its plantations in Bandundu in 1991 to the Zairian
Goverrnnent.
Coton-Zaire. Area of the first cotton project. Coton-Zaire is mostly inactive, for all practical
purposes SENASEN ran mnagement.
CODEWORD = Socidte de Ddveloppement du Word, receiving support from the French Government.
TRABEZA = Private company near Lukasi.
CINSHABA = Cimenteries du Shaba.
V/      Approximate.  See also table 7 C.
Capacity depends on type of seeds conditioned, cycle of harvest, and time available.
i/       HEID of Austrian origin, Ballarini of Italian origin.
Inclusion approved by amendment of the Development Credit Agreement dated February 23, 1990.
Area of the former agricultural mechanization project of the Belgian Cooperation Program (AGCD).
The project transferred all houses, tractors C7) and agriculturaL equipment to the Bili farm.
Z/       FAO imported equipment in 1984, origin unknown.
B. Area Planted for Seeds Production 1/
Over the 1988-90 Period
(in ha)
Seed Farm                     with outgrowers 2/                             at the seed farm
range                 average                  range                 average
Lombo                         20-57                    40                   161-178                   168
Mpoyi                         25-45                     30                    n.a.                     65
Lusanga                                                                      57-228                   140
Dingila                       18-40                     29                   56-120                    93
Bili                           0-109                   45                    31-59                     43
Kisamba                                                  -                   26-30                     27
Mbeko-Shaba                                                Ji               217-276                   248
SAGRICIM             I       _       _                  13 J                240-253                   248
TOTAL                I _ _ _            _             157                                           1,032
Refers to areas planted.  Excludes fallow areas and areas for food production.
The system of seed production with outgrowers started in 1988.
J         1Mbeko-Shaba had only a one-time trial in 1989.
J/       SAGRICIM started in 1990.
Source:
Individual review reports of the seed farms.



- 23 -
C. Ptoduction Data I/
I. Total Seed Production 2/
(tons)
Seed Farm                    1986              1987             1988              1989              1990
Loobo                                        31              199               303               292              257
Mpoyi                                         -                 9               40               130               25
Lusanga                                       ,                                 52               140              228
Dingila 3i                                    -                11               55               110              158
Bili                                          -                 3               58               106              132
Kisamba                                       -                 -                -               115               32
Mbeko-Shaba                                   -               122              376               653              605
SAGRICIN 4/                                   -     _                          235               445              296
TOTAL                                        31              344             1,119             1,991            1,733
Total production of improved
cassava cuttings in km                        -                 4.9              -0.7                              42.7
I/      The yearLy figures refer to the A-season of the previous year plus the B-season of the indicated
year.
Refers to the total grains produced.  Includes all types of seeds, with maize seeds constituting
about 60-70X of total production.
Production in 1991 about 40 tons.
4/      Seed production for SAGRICIN was not included for 1986 and 1987.
Source:
SENASEM reports for the period 1986-90, for each individual farm.
II. Production of Commercial Seeds
(Controlled and conditioned)
(tons)
Seed Farm                   1986              1987               1988               1989              1990
Lombo                                 24                133                122                187               164
mpoyi                                                      7                31                103                18
Lusanga                                                                      0                 49                63
Dingila                                                   4                 16                 29                30
Bili                                                       0                52                 68                20
Kisamba                                                   -                 -                  57                32
Mbeko-Shaba                                              89                340                275               165
SAGRICIN                       _                          -                172                144               164
TOTAL                                 24                233                940                913               656
Controlled and conditioned
seed as a X of total seed             77                 68                 84                 46                38
production                                                                                                                l
Source:
As for Table 7 C I.
* IncLudes ali types of seeds.



- 24 -
D. Yields
I. Grain yields for maize 1/
(kg/ha)
Seed Farm              1986             1987              1988              1989             1990
Lombo                      2,380             3,260             2,980            3,150            2,400
Lusanga                                         -              1,710              340             2,040
DingiLa                                      2,200             3,000            2,800             4,000
Bili                                             -             3,730            2,410             2,590
Kisambna                      .                                4,200 _/         2,320              n.a.
Mbeko-Shab                    .              3,000 v           2,240            3,390             3,980
SAGRICIM                    4,010            5,490               940 3/         2,180             1,400
n.a.= not availabLe.
Yields include those of various maize varieties.
Estimates.
Effect of adverse climatic conditions.
Source:
Individual farm reviews over the 1986-90 period (data with * are estimates).
II. Estimated Yields per crop
(kg/ha)
Crop       Range of yields       Range of yields        Range of       Yields used          Actual
using available       using improved          yieLds       for rate of    estimated range
seeds (or       seeds (or cuttings)   obtained at          return         of yields at
cuttings in        from seed farms        seed farms    calculation         farm level
1985         (objectives in SAR)                      in the SAR       using project
improved seeds
(or cuttings)
maize              0.7-1.0               1.2-2.6             1.0-4.0           1.5             1.5-2.0
rice               0.7-1.0               1.0-1.5            0.8-3.0            1.0             1.5-3.0
groundnuts         0.5-0.8               0.8-1.2             0.3-1.1           1.1             0.5-1.0
beans              0.4-0.6               0.8-1.2             0.2-0.7           0.9               0.5
soybeans           0.4-0.6               0.8-1.0             0.3-1.2           0.9             0.3-1.0
cassava            6.0-10.0             10.0-15.0            n.a.1/           11.3              n.a. *
The project only produced a small quantity of cuttings and paid limited attention to this crop.
It mainly fuinctioned as intermediary for the dissemination of varieties developed by the PRONAN
program (Programme National de Manioc).



- 25 -
Table 8: Prices of Controlled Seeds
I. Seed Prices per Crog. mid-1991
(US$ cents/kg equivalent) 1/
=            -             -I                ________.__  _______
Seed Farm        Maize 2/         Rice         Groundnuts        Beans          Soja
Lombo                  61             80              123             -              81
Lusanga                49              .              123             86            110
BiLi                   18             31               37             -              54
DingiLa                33             33               21             49             49
Kisamba                12              -               -              18             -
SAGRICIM               -              50                             194             50
Conversion rate used: USS1 = 8,150 Zaires.
Source: SENASEN tableau de ventes 1986-1990 et disponibilit6 de semence juin/juilLet 1991.
7V       Prices of imported maize seeds varied over time between USS0.82 - 1.20 per kg.
Note:   Cassava cuttings were soLd between 10-20 Z/cutting of 10-25 cm; mid-1991 the price was 50-100 Z.
II. Sale Prices of Maize Seeds
(in US$ cents/kg equivalent) 1/
Seed Farm              1987             1988              1989              1990             1991
Lombo                        49                67               34                69               61
Lusanga                                        45              100                57               49
Mpoyi                        31                53               86                49              n.a.
Dingila jI/                  45                37               79                 -               33
Bili                                           32               26                35               18
Kisamba                                                                           33              n.a.
Mbeko-Shaba                 n.a.               70               94               130              n.a.
SAGRICIM                    n.a.               70               81                84              n.a.
Average market
price for maize              15                19                18               17               17
1/       The average exchange rates have been used.
V/      Only farm with 1991 information.
Source:
IndividuaL review reports per seed farm over the period 1986-90.



- 26 -
Table 9: Project Results
Planned Compared to Actual Results
Description of activities or results               Project objectives          Actually achieved
A.  Institutional
- Top management of project in place               May 1985                    1985
- Management agreements signed with
enterprises or development projects              3 in 1985                   3 in 1985; 4 in 1987;
responsible for seed farm management                                         6 in 1989
- EstabLishment of a National Seeds Board          12/31/86                    Not established
- Independent status of the National Seed
Service as en "Office'                           May 1987                    Not realized
- Preparation of a draft law for Seed
Quality Control                                  12/31/88                    October 1990
- Pricing policy:
a) free price setting for controlled
seeds by each seed farm                       1986                        applied
b) seed prices should fully recover
operational costs                             end of project period       not obtained
B. Development of Seed Farms
- New seed farms developed                         5                           4
- Seed farms assisted and/or supported             5                           8
- Seed conditioning equipment and seed
storage facilities installed                     5                           7
- Seed factory buildings constructed               4                           4
- Number of crops covered                          6                           10
- Area planted at the seed farms; on average    120-240 ha/year                30-250 ha
- Area planted at the seed farms; total            1.000 ha in total           1,032 (88/89)
- Area planted by "outgrowersU                       400 ha                    157 ha
- Number of outgrowers                               400                       about 300 (1989)
C. Production (in tons) 1/
- Seeds of all types produced at the end
of the project period at seed farms              1,409                       1,701
by outgrowers                                830                         290  ?/
TOTAL                                            2,239                       1,991
by outside projects or NGOs                      1,900                       n.a.
- Total seed production over a 5-year period    -                              5,218
- Total controlled seed production                                               913
- Controlled seed production per crop (1989)
in tons  3/                                      1,620                         597
mafze                                               111                         87
rice                                               343                          20
groundmuts                                          72                          59
beans (Phaseolus and Vigna)                         98                          83
cassava cuttings (km)                            5,400                          43
D.  QuaLity Control
- Construction of central laboratory               1                           0
- Installation of regional laboratory                                          1
- Installation of seed farm laboratories           5                           6
- Number of seed samples tested (per year)         -                           120
- Number of field inspectors trained                                           3
- Production of base seeds at the supporting                                   partially taken over
research station                                                             by seed farms in 1989
- Technical documentation:
a) Guide for the production of controlled
maize seeds (Fiche technique pour la
production des semences de maTs)                                          July 1990
b) Guide for the inscription requirements
in a variety catalogue (Fiche
descriptive catalogue varidt4s)                                           July 1990
c) Provisional catalogue of species and
varieties of food crops                                                   July 1990
- Action program to implement the
recommendations made by ISNAR i/ (early
19B4) to improve agricultural research
activities)                                    6/30/86                     made, but not acted
upon



- 27 -
E.  Studies and Pi lot Prolects
- Study the possibilities to develop HOS 3i
and VAT / screening of base  sds d                                         2
- PiLot project to study the potentisl for
the production of hybrid maize Seeds            1                           1
- PiLot project at the maize project at
Kaniama-rasese                                  1                           project cancelled
- PiLot project to test the distribution of
farmer packages (controlled seeds,
fertiLizer and pesticide)                       1                           0
F   Procurement of CronstructI on  and Eouirsent
- Cosplete chains of cont tioning equipment       5                           6 Zy
- Storage and conservation equipment
(cooplete sets)                                 5                           5
- Houses:  Staff                                                              2
Labor                                                             17
- Trucks                                                                      8
- Pick-ups; field wagons 2 cabins                                             9
- Tractors                                        4                           4
- Cars                                                                        8 a
- Notorcycles                                                                 3
- Agricultural equipment                          4                           4 IV
- Personnel bus                                                               1 9/
G. Trainino
- Courses abroad in No. of persons                25                          5
- Courses at headquarters in Kinshasa             23                          6 technical; 1 adm.
- Courses at the stations                         32
- Recyclage                                       12                          0
- Farm administration on the job by locaL
outside consulting firms                                                    6
H.  Consultants
- Financial/administrative expert                 1                           1
- Marketing                                       1                           0
- Seed quality control                            1                           1 11/
- Seed production                                 2                           2 jl/
- Farm management                                 4                           3
- Seed conditioning                               1                           1
- Legal counseling for the preparation of the
draft seed Ltw                                                              1 (3 months)
- Variety cataLogue preparation                                               1 (3 months)
- Total man/months financed by IDA                214                         235
I.  Reoortina
- Semi-annual reports                                                         Irregularly provided
up to first semester
1991
M Mid-term review                                 12/31/87                    Febru ry 1989
- Audit reports                                   Annually within 6           Last audit report of
months after year end      1990 received Feb. 92
- Yearly individual farm reports                                              First made over the
.___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___   ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___   1990   perfod
For the comparison of actual production figures  nd production objectives, the 1989 figures are
given since at that time, all the farms had been developed, and from 1990, major financial and
management problems hampered operations.
2/      Estimates.  Total gross production under contract about 450 ton.
>/      Other seeds produced over a 5-year period are: (in tons) millet, 0.7; niebe, 2.6; potatoes, 18.8;
and sunflower, 2.0.
ISNAR * International Service National AgriculturaL Research (the Hague, Netherlands).
HDS z Homogdnditd, Distinction, Stabilit6.
J,      VAT x Valeur Agronomique at TechnoLogique.
Z/       IDA financed 4 chains, FAO financed 2 chains and put at the disposal of the project a small
conditioning  quipment, already imported (but stored) before (in 1984) credit effectivenss.
f/      Consisting of various types of plows, harrows, sowing machines, groundnut harvesters, cultivators
pulverizers.  Irrigation  quipment  nd maize harvester were taken over from the sugar coapany (La
Sucriere) at the transfer of management of the Lombo farm from the sugar company to the National
Seed Bureau.
2/      Provided by FAD.
19/     The type of on-seed farm training was realized in a different manner: (a) on administrative matters
by outside local consulting firms; nd (b) on seed technology by yearly seminars organized by FAO,
and frequent visits to farms by FAO technicias and visiting experts.
1f/     One seed production advisor,  nd one seed quality control advisor provided by FAO.



- 28 -
Table 10: Training and Technical Assistance
I. TRAINING
A. Abroad (persons) 1/
Duratfon of courses/visits
Subject
6-12 months    3-6 months    1-3 months    visits 1-2 weeks
Farm management                                                                1                 2
Farm administration                                             -              1                 3
Seed technology                                  1 1            1              24                5
Seed agronomy                                                                  1                 4
Extension and marketing                                                        7                 1
Laboratory and quality control                                                 2                 1
Seed conditioning and agr. machinery                                           4                 -
Source: UNDP evaluation report of April 1991.
Countries included Brazil, Cote dlivoire, Dermark, England, France, Mali, Mauritius, Morocco,
Senegal, USA, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
A one-year training course in Edinburgh covering management, production and marketing.
B. in Zair  (persons)
Duration of courses/visits
Subject
l___________________________________   6-12 months    3-6 months    1-3 months             visits 1-2 weeks
Farm management                                                                6                  1
Farm administration                                                            5          52 (over 2 years)
AnnuaL review of farm operations                                               -                   -
Seed technoLogy                                                                45
Extension and marketing
Laboratory and quality control                                                 8                 65 I/
Conditioning and agr. machinery                                                5                  19
J.1     Including field quality control.



- 29 -
II. Technical Assistance
Number of Man/Months
(Estimated for 1986-91)
A. IDA
Planned                                  ActuaL
Years              Months                Years               Months
Financial/management                 5                   60                   6                    72
Seed technoLogist I/                 5                   60
Marketing specialist /              2-3                   22 2
Seed farm experts                    6                   72
Lombo                                                                      5                    60
Mpoyi                                                                      3                    36
Dingila                                                                    4                    48
Construction advisor                                                                               10
Seed Law advisors _/                                                                                3
Variety cataLogue w/                                                                                3
Supervision 5/                                                                                      1
Others (estimate) 6/                                      ,                                         2
TOTAL                                                    214          _                            235
Financed by UNDP.
Not found.
FAO-suppLied, IDA financed, 3 visits.
Short-term consultants.
During one supervision, financed by BUNASEM.
W        Short-term for farm administration training.
B. UNDP
1 CTP                     5 years
1 Seed technologist    5 years
1 Lab expert              4 years



-30 -
Table 11: Economic Analysis
A. Costs and Benefits
(USS '000)
Costs                                       B Benefits
Year
IDA        Govt        UNDP         Private        Farmers       Total        Total
seed farms          _
1984                           100           10              -                        110       -
1985                            55         340                        -              395        -
1986               398         200          700                   -                 1,298       -
1987               985         389         700                        -            2,074        -
1988             4,956         100          700             60        24           5,840    1,681
1989             1,942         363          700             30        64           3,099    4,929
1990             1,671          25          700             50        62           2,508    4,051
1991 1/          1,787          76         700               -        39           2,602    2.432
1992               607           2          100                        6              715       250 V
1993                 -        n.a. I- 
TOTAL        12 346        1,310       4650              140           195      18,641        13 343
IDA              See TabLe 5 A.  It includes operational costs of the seed farm controlled by SENASEN, and
of SENASEh. and all investment costs.
Govt1            See Table 4.
UNDP             See TabLe 3.  An additional estimated amount in 1992 refers to financing of bridging
activities to a possible second UNDP seed project.  In 1984 costs were estimated for a
small conditioning  quipment.   In 1985 costs for 3 consultants.   Remaining equally
distributed over the 1986-91 period.
Private farm     Costs were estimated for adaptation of factory buildings in 1988; clearing of 200 ha in
1989; and a truck in 1990. Operational costs mostly recovered by seed sales.
Farmer           Cost of incremental Labor days.
Benefits         Value of incrementaL production at estimated average consumer prices.  Seed sold in 1986
were of negligible influence. See Tables 11, II and 1II.
CivIL disturbances in September 1991.
V        In 1991, only a small amount of seeds by the seed farms unaffected by the civil unrest.  They
covered normaLLy onLy 10X of total seed sales.
It is assitad that in 1993, project activities wouLd not be pursued due to insufficient funding
and the destruction foLLowing the disturbances in September 1991.
B. Estimated Incremental Production
(in tons)
Planned                                      Actual
1988      1989        1990       1991       1988        1989       1990       1991
maize                             3,196      11,967     17,695      8,532      26,388     21,492    13,428
rice                      40        190         394        416        210         913      1,512        945
soybeans                  83        178         518        836           2        159        360        455
groundmuts               263        756       1,337      2, 144        20          20         25         45
beans                     16         72         267        400           -          -          -          -
cassava 1/
cosettes                 105        720      4,050      15,000                                           40
leaves                    80        552      3,105      11,500                                           50
cuttings                 140        960     5400       20,000                                        4 000
Cosettes and leaves in tons, cuttings in meters.



- 31 -
C. Estimated Consumer Prices
(in Zaires/kg)
Product         1987      1988        1989       1990        1991
maize l/               17         35         70         120          900
rice                   10         15         20          50       1,200
groundmuts             50        240        350         400       3,300
beans                 200        800      1,200       1,600       2,700
soja                  120        200        200         400       2 200
1/       1986 = 7-10 Z, based on Latest sale prices and seed prices/grain ratio, or interpolated for the
years 1988 and 1989.
(in USS cents equivalent/kg)
Product         1987  |  1988         1989       1990   | 1991
maize                  15         19          18         17           17
rice                    9          8          5           7            8
groundnuts             44        128         92          51           21
beans                 178        233        315         223           17
soja                  107         86         73          55           14_ _
Estimated AgricuLturaL Wages jj
1986            1987              1988              1989             1990
Zai res                       7-10            20-30             50-75            80-120           200-300
USS cents equivaLent            14              22               30                 26               29
1991 wages estimated at 30 USS cents.



- 32 -
Table 12: Status of Covenants
COVENANT     STATUS    ORIGINAL DATE       DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT             STATUS OF COMPLIANCE
3.01 (b)      OK         aLL times         Organization  nd                Substantially complied with.
administration according        Areas with deficiencies: the
to schedule 4                  monitoring unit and
procurement unit.
3.01 (c)      ACT        each year         Adequate Goverrnment            Counterpart financing has been
funding                         grossly inadequate since 1990.
3.02 (a)      OK         all times         Adequate staffing of the        Consistently complied with.
director position                                                 l
3.02 (b)      ACT        12/31/86          Establishment of National       Embodied in the draft seed law
Seed Board                      of 1990.
3.03          OK-D       all times         Procurement and use of          There were frequent cases of
consultants according to        mishandling and delays
schedule 3                      requiring heavy supervision.
3.04          OK-D       each year         Submission of annual work       Conditions met up to 1991.
progrm                          Provisional 1992 program
received.
3.05          ACT        all times         Setting of seed price with    Prices have been adequately
the objective of full cost    set.  However, delays in
recovery                        payment and high inflation
have hindered cost recovery
for some types of seeds.
Remedies have been sought but
were difficult to achieve in a
short run.
3.06          OK-D       06/30/86          Proposal for the                Proposal made in 1987.  It is
reorganization of National    being comiplied through the Ag.
System of Agricultural          Research Project.
Research
4.01          ACT        each year         Submission of audit             Audit reports for 1991 for 2
reports.                        farms are outstanding.
5.01          ACT       09/88              Proposal of status              Has been delayed.  Embodied in
granting autonomy to the        draft seed law of 1990; not
Seed Bureau                     yet enacted.
5.02          ACT        12/88             Submission of inventory of    Embodied in the draft seed law
crop varieties and draft        (1990); enactment pending.
seed legislation                Technical documentation
D prepared in 1990.
STATUS KEYS:     ACT - needs use of formal remedies to bring about compliance.
OK   comlied with, in time.
OK-D - complied with, but with delays.



- 33 -
Table 13: Use of Bank Resources
A. Personnel
(in staff weeks)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990       1991      1992    TOTAL
Preparation     17.2    47.6                                                                           64.8
Appraisal                6.6    55.0                                                                   61.5
Negotiations                     10.8                                                                  10.6
Supervision                      1.3      6.0    10.7    10.2    29.1    13.9       15.3
PCR            _   _I_I                                                 I                           I
TOTAL           17.2   54.2   67.1    6.0    10.7    10.2   29.1    13.9            15.3       =        =
B. Missions 1/
Supervision    Date    Days in    No. of         No. of seed        Specializations       Rating   Trend        Types of
mission                  the      staff on    farms visited         represented                               problems
field     mission
1            5/87      28           1              2          Ag                         2        2     N
2          2-3/88       21          1              3          Ag                         2        2      F, M
32/        1-2/89       20          6              6          Ag (2), SS, Fin,           2        2      F, N, P, Adm.
Pub.Adm. Ag. Ec.
4           10/89       6           1              1          Ag                         2        2      F, M
5 21         2/90       4           1              1          Ag. Ec.                             -      -
6           11/90       10          2              2          Ag (2)                     2        3      Dev. Obj.
7 4/         7/91             -                    -                                     3        3      F, N, Dev. Obj.
8            9/91       23          1              3          Ag                         4        4      F, N  Dev. Obj.
1/      Refers to official supervision missions preparing supervision reports of the seeds project.  In
addition, Bank staff visited frequently the offices of the project's imptementing agency and seed
farm, while on other projects' missions.
2/      Mid-term review mission, financed with project funds.
Tripartite mission FAO/Government/lDA.
4/      Update of form 590.
Key to specializations:
Ag = agronomist; SS = seeds specialist; Fin = Financial specialist; Pub.Adm. = Pubtic administration
specialist; Ag.Ec. = Agricultural Economist.






F                                 24                                                                         lO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD  18447
i  NIGER      r             ,j                                                              2W                                  2"-                                   2'8-IBDt44
MALI23                            t         SUDAN        J                                           CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLtC
)   NIGERIA      (j                                                                                                                                                                                SUDAN
2m             /            NIGERIA / g jJ ( rt ETHIOPIA
<\NcCENTRAL AFRICAN REP                                             *
,CAMEROO        4N --
ED0 I  EA   T  t l        ZIR           I4%AktI) KENYA 
1'GABON             ZAE
~~~~~~ ~~~~RWAN                      'N
ALANTIC                                           T                                                                                           A U T   Z A I R E
OCEAN         ) AGL
ZABI xJ         >>2UIOU                    {1 i          E Q U A T E U R 
I'          ;SAMOA"X;,}                                                                                   \                                              :                             UGANDA
12-                                  Sed                                                                                       ,
G A B O N                          | PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF THE CONGO
4. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    G
' -TsLANT  S  '                                  ~KIVU                                                                j _                     TANRANIA
,   I Vo  100)*UUBUA-
I"           \   f J/RVL--                                                 '          *                           _                    ~         tI                                   v{ 
A T L A ri r p 6 -/ 6 \ ANZAIRE
O  Xt tOO " *, / 3 .~~~~RAZAVLLEK    S HA I  ,9,8
DEVELOPMENT STRUCTURES                                                                                                    '
MAJOR FOODCROP AREAS                                                                                                                :-'i
MAJOR RURAL  EVLOPMENE PROJECTk                                                                                                ,
0   2 ~        ~       6 
LI PNS (USAID}MAJOR COTTON COMPANIES                                              *   Ntl. LVhAl                       j6_
2 PMKO IIFADIIDAI                           II COTESON                             AR  ttot Ea.ttfl E1 1Kt a                                                LI_                 /                 Th P.b 8.E .# j  ht pd l
3 CEDERIM IFEDI                             III  LA COTONNIERE           L,_'p                                                                                         (HA 10  O BBA*  0' a
4 MBANZA NGUNGU IFACI LUALA ICOIZAI         Pt  ESTAGRICO                              Ri_v                                            / t                 1A_
s CODAIK( (IDAIGTZ) FESHI ICOIZAI                                                                                                                                                                C0EO1~~ TS~  ~tZE
bLUBUDI IFACI                                                                   _._- IflttUo I bou~nd rie                 ANGOLA   j                       -         \'~ '/'                           1n    v
7 NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT     MAJO  COTO  C_O-12AN' PE1
PITUSI 11 IDA CIDA,FAC)                    / MBjQr rn10 poOdurQ  v                                                                 (                                        X'           I |        F _   C    _i
2LULUA (IFAD/IDA)                               Mhjor rIvP EFo8I4EIo *9.                                                  -                           ZAh..IA                               I.- P.0 -d by
g KABINDA under IIreprEtSon B(COZZiA.. ET AGR O  109ooducIng v4r                                                                                          :                                 I |, ot.r    _
lor rr )II1u10 pt 1o00r0r09 
n0IoervpnI,on by CEPC S aod Shaba prOac .t
under preparalIon                                                                                                 j24                                                  28                                   320
ANOL    .d .                                                                           It _-d W






_________________________________________________                                                                                        lORD  18448~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 1844
MALI /    NIGER                                    2t4k.2.11'3.2
/ CHAD 
SUDAN ~ /   CHAD   gr   y                        CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NICERIA    / CS U D ETHIOPIA                                  GUIO          r1_ _
/J )e. ,>1                                                                                                                                           +
G A B O N l OF ~~~~~~~~~~~THI OPIAj) si-w >< \@ 
~CAMF      O O kNA
ED GuIN`EA  _T  Z~-  - fGAGA) KENYA
GABON ~'=~      ZAIRE
r_p Jn      ~        RWANA
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A- S}--                                                                                         S Sk
ATLANTIC 
OCEAN A
ANGOLA  * -
rZAMIA             .AMeIQ
SEED_ P R O D U C T I O N _ A ND _ A G R I C U L T U R A L _ _ _ _ _) _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   L*a                                                                            U G A N D A
*r 0lanne      1                                                       AK^ L-d
CenlraJ seed-drms covered   -   Main eartn/gra roads                            f _        > tt R  2  2)  V                pNMoEd-,
IPEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
G AB O N                         OFTE OG
SEEDPRODUCTIONAND t ARtI-CULTUAL
* Planbed ma1srt rsearcoh selion, -utplcto   Paedin rostads                                                                    x              ;7                   cirth       =
CenLralO DESITYlrm  covered      - t2 M(i o drKdb/gaa road
A t 4010c pOS-ibl cenlral bound-arr,r_                   _~                                    _~Z,.,   ZABLIAE.                                              ma do K-e eM aaO
betiplctow *K  Na_ ional boupdtals                                                                        a                   :PU           *       'ste  ma Dr
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Rgoa  2aptCl                                                          gf -4 .t                                       2,8                      aDsaetFw
POTULNTION DENSITVc Rivers                                       12I                                                                                                     T a~ e~ ~ ooe ANZ~ ANIAR  128
15-40/km'            --~~~~~N.~.                                                                                                                 k.einl    rdrioj aaT-gIae4ayrikns
0  1?0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 2D  3D281
Z A I R E ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DCMBR18






IBRD 18449
MALI /     NIGE-         CHAD     F                    I'    I 20 jCENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
/ i G D LA n-_S t izoM9   1   /          UGSAN
NIGERIA                                       E O  ETHIOPIA
N.. AEROONk      -
E` 9u"" M T       >,RCA  E            .AGAbA) KENYA
GABON             ZAR
i  Z A ~~~~      ~           ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I R E 
ATLANTIC                                 k \  TANZANIA4
OCEAN               17KI                                                      y
ANrGOLA
_RaInIaAI                                    I mm                                                                                                                            UGANDA
0*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
I'2' ~          _  _        1nentinltondre                                                                                           oz_\ 
-. - Regl nal boundariesfal'
G B  ON  PEOPLEiS REPUBLIC
I  I~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
MB ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ W
A T L A N T                                                 A L                                                                           TANZANIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
OCEA
RAINFALL AND  ELVTO
SLEVATION  -  P-d ..d,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.P1 ..5WP1dN
00 -  1 500-   A,,-d                                                      ANGOLA-I 1-d,                                                             AgAe              ~w( h. *w nE,40-' byS
.500 - 2000 P1                     R.d,snlctad s/                                                                                                                     v.n 1   Teb P..
ANGOLA  ~ ~     ~     ~      ~    ~            \./                            C.do.. -T. kI01ll-
1Eon, 201,00                                                                                                                                                         f..10 O(   The SIb.1  6.1* d5
m  6   Rpg,onaI COEIISIS  1?*                                  '.                                                         ..-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     f bfwwFl.
/                                       k14P1~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~    ~~~.0Pd PAWSV. opo 12Ol
-  R*nIaII in mm- . - InIern*IiflS. boundAriesZAMBIA                                                                                        1A~11S
- -- ROgIAPSI bOlindarieS   I    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~          .W- 
20'                             204'                              2R8                              3~2
DECEMBERF98



