Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13472-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
APRIL 7, 1995
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Western Africa Department
AAfrica Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(February 1995)
US$1   =   GNF978
GNFI          US$0.001
GNF1000   =   US$1.05
MEASURES
I m         1.09 vd
I m2        10.76sqft
I km2   =   0.38 sq mi
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACDI             Canadian Intemational Development Agency (Agence canadienne de developpement international)
ADRA            Adventist Development and Relief Agency
AfDB            African Development Bank
APE              Parents' Association (Association des parents d'eleves)
CECI            Canadian Center for Studies and Intemational Cooperation (Centre canadien d 'etudes et de cooperation
internationale)
CRE             Unit for school improvement (Cellule de enovation educative)
CP-PASE         Steering Committee for the Education Sector Program (Comite de pilotage du PASE)
DAA4F           Department of Financial and Administrative Affairs (Division des affaires administratives et
financieres)
DAEE            Department of Primary Education (Direction nationale de l'enseignement elementaire)
DNES             Department of Secondary Education (Direction nationale de l'enseignement secondaire)
DPE              Prefectoral Education Office (Direction prefectorale de l'education)
FED             European Union Development Fund (Lome IV) (Fonds europeen de developpement)
GI)P            Gross Domestic Product
ICB             Intemational Competitive Bidding
lDA             International Development Association
[EC             Information, Education and Communication
IMF             International Monetarv Fund
INR4P           National Institute for Research and Pedagogy (Institut national de la recherche et de I 'action pedagogique)
IRE             Regional Education Inspectorate (Inspection regionale de I 'education)
LCB             Local Competitive Bidding
AIEPU('FP        Ministry of Pre-University Education and Vocational Training  (A.finistere de l1enseignement pre-
universitaire et de la formation professionnelle)
AI'ESRSC         Ministry of Higher E ducation, Scientific Research and Culture (Mkfinistere de 1 'enseignement superieur, de
la recherche scientifique et de la culture)
NGO             Non-Govemrmental Organization
PASE             Education Sector Adjustment Program (Programme d 'ajustement sectoriel de I'education)
PEIRD           Policy and Huuman Resources Development (Japanese grant)
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
SAAF            Administrative and Financial Service (decentralized) (Service des affaires administratives et
financieres)
SAI             Structural Adjustment Loan
SDA             Special Deposit Account
SNIES            School Construction Unit (Service national des infrastructures et des equipements scolaires)
SOE             Statement of Expenditures
SSP              Statistics and Planning Service (Service des statistiques et de la planification)
ST              Technical Secretariat for the Education Sector Program (Secrtariat technique du P.4SE)
VET             Vocational Education and Training
USAID           UJnited States Agency for International Development
Government Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
School Year
October I - June 30



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..............................i
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II.  SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Background                                                .2
B. Economic Developments                                           .2
C. Education Sector                                           .2
1. Structure                                      .2
2. Administration                                    .3
3. Sector Development Issues ...................................... ,       .3
4. Government's Educational Policy and Strategies                        .7
D.   Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement                                .8
II1-.  THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Scope .10
B. Project Description .12
1. Increase Primary School Enrollment and Completion Rates .12
2. Improve Teaching and Student Learning .16
3. Strengthen Education System Management .20
C.      Project Cost and Financing Plan                                                        24
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Status of Project Preparation .26
B.   Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation .26
C.  Implementation Schedule .28
D. Procurement .28
E.      Disbursements                                                                          33
F.   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .34
V.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits .........                                                                          35
B. Risks .........                                                                             35
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .36
This report is based on the findings of the Bank appraisal nmission which visited Guinea in June-July, 1994. This mission comprised
Messrs./Mines. Robert Prouty (Education Specialist, Co-Task Manager and Mission Leader), Catherine Laurent (Economnist and Co-Tak
Manager), Joy del Rosso (Nutrition), Sakhevar Diop (Textbooks), Annette Poitras (Commuunications), Jean Laroche (infonnmaion
Systems), Yvette Cogne (Vocational Training), Jean-Claude Hameidat (Implementation), Philippe Theunissen (Architect), Alpha Canma
(Parasitologist), Carmen Malena (NGOs), Marilou Bradley (Operations Analyst), and Cherif Diallo (Economist. Resident Mission). The
Lead Adviser is Mr. Torn Eisemon. Peer Reviewers include Mme./M. Elizabeth King and Edward Heneveld (technical components). Mr.
Jean-Louis Sarbib and Mr. Ok Pannenborg are the Department Director and managing Division Chief, respectively, for this operation.



CONTENTS (continued)
VII.  ANNEXES
1-A   Basic Data
1-B Flow Chart of the Formal Education System (Organigramme du systeme educatif)
1-C   Organization Chart of the Ministry of Pre-University Education and Vocational
Training (Organigramme du Minisftre de l'enseignement pre-universitaire et de
laformation professionnelle)
2     Education Data
3     Statement of Education Sector Policy (Lettre de politique de developpement du
secteur de l 'education)
4     Budget Framework for MEPUFP for 1994-2000 and MEPUFP Budgets 1991-
1994
5     Monitorable Outcome Indicators for Project (and Program)
6     Textbook Provision
7     Small Grants Staff Development and School Improvement Program
8     Nutrition and Health Component
9     Project Cost and Financing Tables
10    Project Monitoring and Supervision Plan
11   Implementation Schedule and Calendar of Activities
12    Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
13   Implementation Manual: Table of Contents
14    Status of Bank Loans and Credits
15    Selected Documents Available in the Project File



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Government of Guinea
Implementing       Ministry of Pre-University Education and Vocational Training
Agency:            (MEPUFP)
Beneficiaries:     Primary and secondary school students, in particular female
students, under the aegis of MEPUFP
Credit Amount:    SDR 28.5 million (US$42.5 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Parallel Financing: In US$ million equivalent: AfDB1 11; Canada 1.6; European Union
(Lom6 IV) 15.6; France 9.5; Japan 15; USAID 20; Germany, to be
determined
Project Objectives  The Government of Guinea adopted the National Program for
& Description:     Education for All in 1990. The objectives of this program were to
expand the gross primary school enrollment rate from 28% to 53%
by the year 2000, to increase the efficiency of resource use within
the sector, to increase overall Government support for basic
education, and to improve quality. The strategy has been updated
in a Statement of Education Sector Policy. This policy will be
supported through the implementation of the second phase of a
multidonor sector investment program. The long-term objectives
of the integrated sector program are to: (a) increase primary school
enrollment and completion rates, with a strong focus on girls and
students in rural areas; (b) improve teaching and student learning in
primary and lower secondary schools; and (c) strengthen education
system management. In support of these overall objectives, the
current  project  will  finance  activities  with  short-term
implementation goals as follows.



ii
1.    To increase primary school enrollment and completion
rates, the project will:
(a)   build and rehabilitate primary schools; and
(b)   improve community-level capacity for school maintenance
and upkeep functions.
2.    To improve teaching and student learning, the project
will:
(a)   provide textbooks at both the primary and lower secondary
levels;
(b)   support primary school staff development and school
improvement; and
(c)   increase student learning capacity through a school-based
micronutrient supplement and deworming program.
3.    To strengthen  education  system  management, the
project will:
(a)   create the capacity for systematically monitoring student
learning;
(b)   develop a viable communications system within the sector;
(c)   improve sector planning, budgeting and monitoring; and
(d)   support pre-investment studies for establishment of closer
Ministry/private sector links.
Benefits       There are two main benefits. The first benefit will be the provision of
and Risks:     more and better education, which in the long term will contribute to
poverty reduction. The gross primary school enrollment rate will rise
from  40%  to 53%  during the project period.  Rural students'
participation will increase from 20% to 40%, and the gross primary
school enrollment rate of girls, currently at 29%, will reach 42% at the
primary level. The quality of education will be improved by providing
an initial stock of textbooks at the primary and lower-secondary levels,
promoting school-level initiatives, and increasing student learning
capacity by improving the health and nutrition of schoolchildren.
Support for school-level initiatives will develop innovative teaching
practices and provide for continuing stakeholder participation in
improving the quality of learning and teaching. The second benefit will
be the further development of capacity within the Ministry of Pre-
University Education and Vocational Training to plan, monitor, and
manage the sector and sector outputs in a sustainable manner.



iii
There are two main risks. The first risk is failure to attain project goals
if the budget allocations for the sector, analyzed thoroughly to ensure
their coherence with the recurrent cost implications of the project, are
not executed. This risk will be addressed by agreements reached with
Government regarding budget allocations. Primary education's share of
the total education budget will increase from 35% to 42% by the year
2000. The Government will allocate sufficient funds in its budget for
1997, 1998 and 1999 for the creation of 600 additional primary school
teacher positions for each of these years. Prior to the start of the 1997-
98, 1998-99 and 1999-2000 school years, the Government will recruit
600 additional primary school teachers. The Public Expenditure Review
currently being implemented will also strengthen the Government's
capacity to assess the priority of education in the budget allocations.
Budget targets have been developed by Government with the full
participation of all major donors. Budget execution will be monitored
on a semi-annual basis, subject to joint annual reviews by the donors and
Government. A second risk is the current weakness of decentralized
education units in the management of budget resources. This risk is
addressed by ongoing efforts to strengthen the prefectoral education
offices (DPEs) together with the Department of Financial and
Administrative Affairs (DAAF), and the use of short-term technical
assistance to transfer skills to staff.   The Small Grants Staff
Development and School Improvement Program provides an additional
mechanism for careful monitoring of new approaches for managing
decentralized expenditures.
Poverty        Program of Targeted Interventions. The operation will address
Category:      poverty/human resources issues and gender. The emphasis on primary
education, particularly in rural areas, has been shown elsewhere to be
one of the most effective ways of tackling poverty issues. The provision
of an initial stock of textbooks, together with the school health and
nutrition program, will have its greatest impact on the poorest
households, providing better health, increasing poor children's access to
primary school and enhancing their learning capacity. Further, every
project component has been analyzed in terms of gender impact and
specifically designed to maximize girls' participation in schooling and
the later benefit they will derive from their primary schooling experience.



iv
Economic Rate
of Return:    Not applicable
Program
Objective     Poverty Reduction and Human Resources Development;
Categories:    Gender Issues
Map:          IBRD No. 26473
Sector Program Financing Plan
(US$ million)          Local    Foreign   Taxes & Duties  Total   % of total
program
.___ _ __ __ _ __ _   _cost
GUINEA                  9.5       2.9           13.7        26.1      18%
Government              8.3       2.0           13.5        23.8      17%
Communities             1.2       0.9           0.2         2.3        1%
IDA                     18.9      23.6           -          42.5      30%
DONORS                  15.9      56.8           -          72.7      52%
AfDB                    2.4       8.6            -          11.0       8%
Canada                  0.6        1.0           -          1.6        1%
FED                     8.4        7.2           -          15.6      11%
France                  0.5        9.0           -          9.5        7%
Germany                            -             -          tbd        n.a
Japan                             15.0           -          15.0      11%
USAID                   4.0       16.0                      20.0      14%
Total Program Cost     44.3       83.3          13.7       141.3      100%



v
Summary of IDA Financed Project Cost Estimates
(Including taxes and duties, in USS million)
% of
total
base
Local Foreiizn  Total   costs
1. INCREASE PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT AND
COMPLETION RATES
(a) Build and rehabilitate primary schools                           16.3    7.2    23.5    52%
(b) Improve community-level capacity for school                      0.8     0.4      1.2     3%
maintenance and upkeep
2. IMPROVE TEACHING AND STUDENT LEARNING
(a) Provide textbooks to primary and                                 0.8     11.0    11.8    26%
lower secondary schools
(b) Support primary school staff development and                     2.0      0.8     2.8     6%
school improvement
(c) Increase student learning capacity                               0.6      1.0     1.6    4%
3. STRENGTHEN EDUCATION SYSTEM MANAGEMENT
(a) Monitor student learning outcomes                                0.7     0.4      1.1     2%
(b) Improve communications systems                                   0.2     0.6      0.8     2%
(c) Improve sector planning, budgeting and monitoring                0.7     0.9      1.6     3%
(d) Support pre-investment studies for establishing
closer Ministry/ private sector links                                0.5     0.4      0.9     2%
4. REFUNDING OF PPF                                                  0.2     0.1      0.3
Total Base Costs        22.8    22.8    45.6   100%
Physical contingencies   1.4     2.0     3.4     8%
Price contingencies      2.3     1.7     4.0     9%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 26.5    26.5    53.0   117%
ESTIMATED IDA                                IDA FISCAL YEAR
DISBURSEMENTS
FY96      FY97       FY98       FY99       FY2000       FY2001
Annual                 2.8        8.3        13.7       7.1         6.7          3.9
Cumulative             2.8        11.1       24.8       31.9       38.6          42.5
Rate of return: Not applicable






REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUrrY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
L. INTRODUCTION
1.1   The Government of Guinea has requested IDA financing over five years to support
implementation of its ongoing education sector reform. This will be the second phase of a
multidonor financed program initiated under the Education Sector Adjustment Program
(Programme d'ajustement sectoriel de l'education, PASE, 1990-1994) and will cover the
period 1995-2000. The project will include support for primary and lower secondary
schooling. Its objectives are to: (a) increase primary school enrollment and completion
rates, with a strong focus on girls and students in rural areas; (b) improve teaching and
student learning in primary and lower secondary schools; and (c) strengthen education
system management. Attainment of these objectives also implies ongoing support for
strengthening the already considerable capacity of the Ministry of Pre-University
Education and Vocational Training (Ministere de 1'enseignement pre-universitaire et de
la formation professionnelle, MEPUFP) to gather and analyze data, to communicate
effectively, and to plan and monitor expenditures. All the components are designed to
strengthen girls' schooling and enhance the role of the individual school as the locus of
change.
1.2   The Country Assistance Strategy (March 1994), recognizing the central role that
human resources play in the economic development of Guinea, emphasizes the need for a
strong commitment to human resource development. In particular, it calls for long-term
support to the education and health sectors including "greater attention to the
institutionalization of programs designed to enhance girls' education". This project will be
the fourth IDA-financed operation for educational development in Guinea. It builds on
lessons learned through the Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr.2155-GUI, 1990-94),
an Education Project (Cr.849-GUI, 1978-84) and a Second Education Project (Cr.1341-
GUI, 1983-90).
1.3   The proposed IDA credit of US$42.5 million will finance 30%  of the total
program cost, including 28% of the foreign exchange cost (US$23.6 million equivalent)
and 43% of the local cost (US$18.9 million equivalent). Total program cost is estimated
at US$141.3 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$83.3 million
equivalent. Guinea (the Government and communities) will finance 18% of the program
cost, almost entirely for incremental teacher salaries and pedagogical materials, including
21% of local cost (US$9.5 million equivalent), plus taxes and duties (US$13.7 million
equivalent). The six cofinanciers [AfDB, Canada (ACDI), European Union (Lom6 IV),
France, Japan, and the United States of America (USAID)] will finance 52% of the total
program cost, including 68% of the foreign exchange cost (US$56.8 million equivalent)
and 36% of local cost (US$15.9 million equivalent).



2
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. BACKGROUND
2.1   Guinea is a country with 6.2 million inhabitants and a high population growth of
2.8% per year (1993). It has long been one of Africa's most conspicuous underachievers.
Guinea has one of the highest concentrations of mineral resources in Africa (bauxite,
diamond and gold) and a high agricultural potential. The mining sector accounts for 22%
of GDP, agriculture for less than 30%. Yet Guinea's per capita income is only US$537.
Its low social indicators have caused it to be ranked last in the United Nations
Development Program's Human Development Index from 1992 through 1994. Indicators
such as life expectancy (44 years), infant mortality (133 per 1,000 live births) and illiteracy
(76%), reflect the poor living standards of its people.
B. EcoNoMIc DEVELOPMENTS
2.2   Since the beginning of 1986, the Government of Guinea has been implementing an
ambitious program of economic and financial reform. IDA and the IMF supported the
adjustment through a SAL I (1986) and two stand-by arrangements in 1986 and 1987.
This program was aimed at improving the incentive framnework for private sector
development (including the health sector), phasing out state involvement in commercial
enterprises, instituting better management of the administration (including a reduction in
the size of the civil service) and developing a strong human resource base. The reform
program has resulted in a full transition from a command to a market economy, increases
in non-mining revenues, the privatization or liquidation of a large number of public
enterprises, and a comprehensive reform of and reduction in the size of the public
administration from 95,000 to 52,000 individuals. While progress in the first phase of the
adjustment program was encouraging, some of the more difficult institution-building and
politically sensitive reforms of the second phase have not been implemented at the rhythm
anticipated. Consequently, the reform process has slowed, with some key measures
remaining to be taken. A SAL II was approved by IDA in August 1988. Since July 1994,
Guinea is implementing the second year program of an Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility arrangement approved by the ILMF in November 1991, suspended in early 1992
and replaced by a shadow program until June 1994. Overall, the Government's program
has resulted in real economic growth, averaging 3.8% per annum from 1987-1992, an
increase in real per capita income of about 1% per annum.
C. EDUCATION SECTOR
1. Structure
2.3   The educational system consists of six years of primary schooling, a four-year
cycle for lower secondary and vocational training, a three-year upper secondary cycle, and
five years of tertiary education. There is no upper secondary vocational training, but there
are a number of post-secondary vocational programs of varying length (Annex 1-B).



3
During the 1993-94 school year, Guinea's pre-university educational system
accommodated 589,000 students, with 471,000 students in primary school, 109,900
students in secondary school, and 8,100 students in technical schools. Gross enrollment
rates for primary and secondary schooling were 40% and 10% respectively. The total
number of teaching staff during the 1993-94 school year for the primary and secondary
levels was 14,800, with fewer than 2,900 (19%) female teachers (Annex 2).
2. Administration
2.4   The administration of Guinea's educational system  is divided between two
Ministries: the MEPUFP and the Ministry of Higher Education, Scientific Research and
Culture (Ministere de l1enseignement sup&rieur, de la recherche scientifique et de la
culture, MESRSC). The MEPUFP (see Annex 1-C for organizational flow chart) directs
all pre-university structures through eight regional Academic Inspectorates which in turn
administer 38 prefectoral-level Directorates of Education (Direction pr6fectorale de
l'education, DPE) and 210 sub-prefectoral Pedagogic Delegates. The MESRSC is
responsible for the two Guinean universities (Nasser University, in Conakry and Nyerere
University, in Kankan), three specialized institutes (the Teacher Training Institute in
Maneah, the Giscard d'Estaing Agriculture and Veterinary Institute in Faranah, and the
Mining and Geology Institute in Boke), and a number of scientific research centers.
3. Sector Development Issues
2.5   From independence in 1958, the Government pursued a unique educational policy
that included instruction in national languages in all primary schools, agricultural work as
a part of the curriculum at all levels, and the linking of the education system to the
political party at the local, regional, and national levels. Primary education was, in theory
at least, compulsory. Enrollment rates expanded rapidly and a large number of technicians
and professionals were trained under this policy. Female schooling was encouraged
notably by setting a lower achievement requirement for access to secondary school and
reserving a quota for female students at the University level. However, the sweeping
nature of the reform, combined with rapid enrollment growth and poorly trained teachers,
resulted in a low quality of education, inadequate external efficiency, and inefficient
allocation of resources. Furthermore, the transition to French at the end of primary school
was poorly prepared, resulting in reduced comprehension in secondary school and poorly
qualified university students. Finally, girls' schooling became suspect as a consequence of
the lower standards set for them.
2.6   The 1958 policies were abandoned when the first regime ended in 1984 and the
Government launched a program of reform and rehabilitation to improve access to
education and to relate it to employment opportunities. French was re-introduced as the
language of instruction but two generations of Guinean teachers did not speak fluent
French, thereby compromising their ability to perform well in the new system. Other
reforms included placing the educational administration under a single ministry,
reorganizing educational management, consolidating and rationalizing higher education,



4
extending secondary education by one year, and implementing a program of in-service
training for teachers. However, resource allocation was slow to follow these policies and
the reform package of 1984 was only partially implemented. The Governmnent, in a
renewed attempt to improve the sector, announced a new educational policy in September
1989. This attempt has been much more successful.
(a) Access
2.7   Government has succeeded in reversing the declining primary school enrollment
trends of the 1980s. Although gross primary school enrollment had fallen to 28% by the
1988-89 school year, it increased to 40% by the 1993-94 school year, an increase of 70%
in nominal enrollments. Government is currently ahead of schedule for attaining its target
of 53% gross enrollment by the year 2000. This was made possible through: (i) an
ambitious school construction program supported by community groups, non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) and donors, accompanied by development and
implementation of low-cost construction norms; (ii) the redeployment of over 2,000
teachers from administrative posts and secondary schools to primary school classrooms;
and (iii) a reallocation of budgetary resources in favor of non-salary operating
expenditures, particularly at the primary level.
(b) Equity
2.8   Gender. Thirty-two percent is the most stubborn statistic in Guinean education.
It represents the percentage of primary school students who are girls and hasn't changed in
the last ten years. In 6 of Guinea's 38 prefectures, gross primary enrollment for girls was
10% or less in 1992-93 (see Annex 2 for female enrollments by region). The percentage
of female teachers (ust under 23%) is even lower than the percentage of female students.
In 1993-94, there were 2,292 female teachers at the primary level out of a total of 9,972.
In rural areas (1992-93), only 314 of 5,002 teachers were female (6%). While statistics on
the evolution of girls' participation in secondary schools are not yet available, the figures
for the post-primary vocational training centers are eloquent: female students represented
12% of all students in 1985 and 1.7% in 1992.
2.9   During PASE implementation, Government established a Commission on Equity,
with USAID support. In order to better understand why girls' participation is weak in the
school system, this highly influential commission helped design studies for the current
project that took girls' issues as a proxy for all issues facing the sector. For example, in
order to learn about the classroom experiences of students, an in-depth, five-month study
of girls' experiences in classrooms was conducted. While the focus was on female
students, the recommendations of the study have proven to be of operational relevance for
all students.  Other studies conducted from this general perspective include: (a) a
statistical analysis of determinants of girls' education; (b) an analysis of local constraints to
girls' participation in primary schooling and identification of initiatives to increase girls'
education; (c) a review of employment opportunities for female graduates of vocational
training; (d) preparation of an operational manual and guidelines for a small grants



5
program to train staff and improve school quality and girls' schooling; and (e) development
of proposals for greater support to private schooling, which accommodates a higher
percentage of female students. In each case, girls' participation has served as the prism
through which the issue is analyzed, but operational recommendations have been
developed that are meaningful for all students.
2.10  Rural/Urban. The bias against rural students in the system is even more striking
than that against girls: fewer than 20% of all students in primary schools are from rural
areas, even though the rural population represents more than half of all potential students;
only 13% of girls in primary school are from rural areas. The regions of Middle and
Upper Guinea, which are largely rural, have gross enrollment rates of 27% and 28%
respectively, while the Conakry region, entirely urban, has an enrollment rate of 73% (see
Annex 2 for details).
(c) Quality
2.11  The most important indicator of educational quality is student learning outcomes.
Government does not yet have any reliable way to measure these. Available input
indicators would imply relatively low quality overall: nationwide, for instance, students
average less than one textbook apiece and 24% of classrooms are classified as being in bad
condition. However, Guinea uses both double shifting (in urban areas) and multigrade
classrooms (in rural areas) to increase efficiency, with the result that the average number
of primary students per teacher is 49 and varies by region from 39 to 64. Repetition rates
have remained near 20% for the past three years, with a marginally higher rate for girls
(23% in 1992-93). Drop-out rates are considerably higher for girls.
(d) Budgetary and Financial Issues
2.12  Budget. The budget process for the education sector in Guinea has improved
significantly over the past three years. Annual budgets are prepared well in advance,
based on careful analysis of each budget line, which is backed by a corresponding action
plan. The MEPUFP's budget preparation process is carefully monitored by the Steering
Committee for the PASE and is considered within Government to be an example of best
practice in this area. The execution of the annual budget is also carefully monitored, with
quarterly reports on commitment and expenditure levels generally available within several
months.
2.13  An increasing portion of education sector procurement is handled at the regional
and prefectoral levels through decentralized budget allocations, orders of payment, and
payment (dil6gation de credit, ordonnancement etpaiemenf). Capacity for implementing
this approach was considerably strengthened through the PASE, with initial training
supported by USAID of MEPUFP accountants at the regional and prefectoral levels.
These accountants were trained in budget preparation and execution, and submission of
quarterly financial reports. Still, external audits are virtually non-existent and the internal
audit system is embryonic. The budget unit is at present only able to perform preliminary



6
audits on a "spot check" basis and has limited capacity for conducting financial analysis.
USAID will continue to provide support for the budget unit in its efforts to further
improve the absorptive capacity of the MEPUFP at the decentralized level. Additional
personnel with responsibility for conducting regular audits at the prefectoral level have
been recruited for the DAAF [para. 6.1 (a)].
2.14 Finance. Tuition at all levels is free and Government finances almost all recurrent
spending for education; Government financing of the sector increased from 12.9% of the
overall national recurrent budget in 1990 (compared to an average of 18% in Sub-Saharan
Africa) to 26.1% of the 1993 recurrent budget (not including debt and investment
payments). Higher education continues to receive a disproportionate amount of both
recurrent and investment budgets, although its share has been steadily reduced in recent
years. All financial targets established for the sector under the PASE were met and
surpassed, with the result that expenditures for non-salary operating costs improved
significantly from 2% of pre-university expenditures to 15%. The budget distribution
moved from 32% for primary education in 1990 to 35% in 1993. A further increase to
42% of sectoral expenditures is planned by 1999. Maintenance and construction are
managed by the Ministry, by donors, and by NGOs, but almost wholly funded by donors,
communities, and NGOs.
(e) Planning and Resource Management
2.15  Personnel Management.  The redeployment of 2,200 sectoral personnel to
primary school classrooms in 1992-93 was an example of the priority Guinea's education
sector has given to improved personnel management. The 1993 decision to base future
hiring on a probationary period of supervised classroom teaching is further evidence of the
sector's attention to improving teaching skills and to pushing responsibility for decision-
making as far down in the system as is feasible. However, an extremely underdeveloped
communications system makes it difficult to establish a give-and-take of feedback between
central, regional and prefectoral offices.
2.16 A major handicap for personnel management is the lack of a systematic program
for upgrading teacher skills through in-service training. For instance, virtually none of the
2,200 underutilized administrators and secondary teachers redeployed to primary
classrooms received short-term training. Most teachers receive only sporadic training
under the best of circumstances. This is due in part to overlapping responsibility for
teacher training between the inefficient National Institute for Research and Pedagogy
(Institut national de la recherche et de I 'action pedagogique, INRAP), the inspectorates,
and the directorates of Primary and Secondary Education. The creation in 1994 of a new
directorate for personnel training clarifies these responsibilities and revamps the INRAP.
USAID technical assistance will focus on strengthening the INRAP, which is particularly
important if it is to contribute fully to the improvement of teaching quality.
2.17  Statistical Data. Reasonably good school mapping and school statistics data are
received and published each year, but to date, this information is underutilized and the



7
capacity for meaningful analysis is limited. The school mapping information is used
throughout the country for reaching decisions about school rehabilitation and new school
construction but is not easily accessible. The statistical unit (Service des statistiques et de
la planification, SSP) produces an accurate statistical yearbook within six months of the
end of the school year, but this is generally too late to be useful for planning the new
school year and only a few of the potential end users appear to take these data into
account for decision-making purposes.  The SSP has given itself the objective of
producing the yearbook and an accompanying computerized data base by May of the
current school year, and of strengthening end use and analysis. The SSP wil assume a
new role, that of an information clearinghouse, through this process. This goal is within
reach but will require short-term training of the statistical unit personnel in order to allow
them to produce the annual yearbook without relying on technical assistance as in the past.
This training has begun under project preparation.
4. Government's Educational Policy and Strategies
2.18  The Government of Guinea published its current educational policy in 1989. The
key objective was to increase gross primary school enrollment from 28% in 1989 to 70%
in the year 2000. This has since been scaled back to a more manageable but still very
ambitious 53%. As of 1994, the Government was slightly ahead of target, with gross
primary enrollments at 40%. Special emphasis was placed on increasing access for girls
and rural children. The quality of teaching was to be improved by increasing the number
of students in teacher training schools, improving the living conditions of teachers,
improving pre- and in-service teacher training programs, and improving teaching materials
and educational infrastructure.  Other areas addressed by the current policy are
restructuring of the educational administration to improve efficiency, promotion of private
education, and reorganization of the educational budget according to the newly defined
sector priorities.
2.19 The Government's commitment to the 1989 policy was reconfirmed in 1990 when
it adopted the National Program for Education For All. This policy included as a target a
reduction in the adult illiteracy rate from 74% in 1990 to 37.5% in the year 2000. The
Government discussed its educational strategy with major donors in June 1994 as a part of
the preparation process for the current program phase. This updated strategy will bring
qualitative goals for education into sharper focus and will establish quantitative targets
adjusted in the light of three years' experience with the reform process, together with the
budget allocations needed for sector development for the next five years. A draft
Statement of Education Sector Policy, with monitorable indicators and budget projections
for the MEPUFP for 1995-2000 was submitted prior to negotiations [par 6.1 (b)] and
agreed upon between IDA and the Government [para. 6.2 (a)].
2.20 Higher Education. The number of institutions of higher education in Guinea was
reduced sharply in 1984, to five, with the closing of some thirty agricultural institutions of
higher education. Higher education continues to be a highly inefficient enterprise in
Guinea, however, absorbing 24% of the sectoral budget while producing a relatively low



8
number of graduates, of limited employability outside the public sector. A technical
assistance project in support of higher education reform was appraised by IDA in June
1994 and is expected to be presented to the Board in Fiscal Year 1996.
2.21  Vocational Training.   There are seventeen lower secondary Vocational
Education and Training (VET) institutions scattered throughout the country, along with a
small number of post-secondary programs. There are no upper-secondary VET schools.
Programs offered in the schools have remained static for many years; the schools operate
separate from and without regard for labor market needs, although Canada and IDA have
collaborated during the course of project preparation to help the Government prepare a
statement of VET sector reform. This document calls for a significant change in the way
the sector does business, to move toward a demand-driven rather than a supply-driven
approach. However, the sector at present does not possess adequate management
capacity to implement such a far-reaching change; the Government has committed itself to
develop such managerial capacity and establish basic quality assurance controls and
maintenance and upkeep functions.
2.22 NGOs. Guinea has a long history of close collaboration with NGOs, including
both national and intemational NGOs. Several NGOs have developed cost-efficient
scalable methods for school construction and maintenance, with a history of close
collaboration with communities (Aide et Action, CECI, and ADRA, among others). An
evaluation of NGO capacity was conducted as a part of project appraisal. The results of
this study were made available in country--they provide contacts and an implementation
history for over fifty national and international NGOs. Two NGOs (ADRA and CECI) are
currently taking part in a pilot project to test new approaches to management of school
construction processes.
D. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS IDA INVOLVEMENT
2.23  The Equity and School Improvement Project will be the fourth IDA-financed
education project in Guinea. The first project (1978-84) focused on developing vocational
training capacity and equipping the Planning Office of the Ministry of Education and the
Project Management Unit.  The Project Performance Audit Report (#6492-GUI)
recommended that future projects concentrate on addressing a narrow range of issues
within the sector. In spite of this, the second IDA-financed education credit (1983-1990)
financed a wide range of activities including vocational training, manpower development,
education planning, and primary school improvement.  According to the Project
Completion Report (#10200-GUI), the high number of donors (three) and local actors
made the project too complex for existing management capability.   The main
recommendation was that project design and organization be adapted to the existing
institutional, economic, managerial, and implementation capacities. Ironically, the first
two credits met most of their quantitative goals but did not have a major impact on the
sector, where virtually all indicators of access and quality were in free fall.



9
2.24  The third intervention in the sector, the PASE (1990-94), set out to reverse the
decline in educational access and quality by first strengthening institutional and
management capacity. Government developed a ten-year strategic design covering the
total education sector, with explicit attention to the macroeconomic context.  This
program has succeeded in reversing the declining enrollment trends of the 1980s (para.
2.18). This was made possible through: (a) an ambitious school construction program
supported by community groups, NGOs and donors, accompanied by development and
implementation of low-cost construction norms; (b) West Africa's most ambitious
redeployment program to date, with over 2,200 teachers shifted from administrative posts
and secondary schools to primary school classrooms; and (c) a reallocation of budgetary
resources in favor of the education sector, including large increases in non-salary
operating expenditures. In line with Government-wide civil service reform measures, the
MEPUFP has overhauled its teacher management procedures. Data collection and
analysis have been dramatically improved.  Government support for education has
increased from 13% (1989) to 26% (1993) of the national budget, with marked
improvements in preparation and monitoring of education sector budgets. The sectoral
budget distribution moved from 32% for primary education in 1990 to 35% in 1993;
expenditures for non-salary operating costs increased from 2% of pre-university
expenditures in 1990 to 15% in 1993.
2.25  The key lesson to be learned from implementation of the PASE is that a complex
range of interventions can be successfully undertaken, provided that they are situated
within a coherent policy matrix and given intensive supervision. The PASE also
demonstrated the importance of a long-term framework for education system support,
covering fifteen to twenty years.  A further lesson learned from perhaps the least
successful initiative of the PASE is that unless girls' issues are framed in such a way that
they are integral to the reform process, only marginal improvements can be expected in
girls' schooling: after the PASE, almost no change can be demonstrated in the management
and teaching culture linked to girls' schooling.
2.26  The proposed project will address these weaknesses by: (a) strengthening both the
central Directorate and the decentralized financial services of the MEPUFP (Division et
services des affaires administratives etfinancieres, DAAF and SAAF); (b) contracting the
management of primary school construction to NGOs with a proven track record and
hired under procedures acceptable to IDA; (c) procuring textbooks through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB); (d) taking girls' issues as a proxy for all issues facing the
education sector; (e) developing school-level initiatives to improve teaching and student
learning; and (f) conducting joint annual reviews by Government and all key donors of
annual work programs and budgets (Annex 10).



10
m. THE PROJECT
A. OBJEcTivEs AND SCOPE
3.1    Objectives. Research has consistently shown that support for primary and lower
secondary education is the single best investment a developing country can make for
future economic growth, with the greatest rates of return associated with girls' schooling.
Further, the evidence is overwhelming that such support is most effective when
investments are targeted at the school level. To this end, the project will support the
Guinean Government's carefully designed approach to human capital formation as it
implements the second phase of its ten-year educational development program. The
overall objectives of this phase are as follows: (i) increasing primary school enrollment and
completion rates, with a strong focus on girls and students in rural areas; (ii) improving
teaching and student learning at primary and lower secondary schools; and (iii)
strengthening education system management. The short-term implementation goals for
the IDA credit are as follows: (a) build and rehabilitate primary schools; (b) improve
community-level capacity for school maintenance and upkeep functions; (c) provide
textbooks at both the primary and lower secondary levels; (d) support school-based
innovations in teaching at the primary level; (e) increase student learning capacity through
a school-based micronutrient supplement and deworming program; (f) create the capacity
for systematically monitoring student learning; (g) develop a viable communications
system within the sector; (h) improve sector planning, budgeting and monitoring; and (i)
support pre-investment studies for establishment of closer Ministry/private sector links.
All project components are designed to support girls' participation in schooling; all
components also strengthen the role of the individual school as the locus of change. The
Government's policies and programs are described in a Statement of Education Sector
Policy (Annex 3) presented during the donor meeting organized by the Guinean
Government in June 1994. Monitorable indicators (Annex 5) for project performance
were submitted prior to negotiations [para. 6.1 (b)] and agreed between IDA and the
Government during negotiations [para. 6.2 (a)]. These include, among others, teacher
staffing, classroom construction, enrollment rates, and textbook production and
distribution.
3.2   Scope. The project will provide broad-based support for primary and lower
secondary education. The emphasis will be put on access and completion for rural
students and for girls, designed in keeping with project preparation studies indicating that,
among other factors, girls' participation and attainment are far more sensitive than that of
boys to: (a) the availability of a full six-year primary cycle; (b) shorter distance between
the home and the school; (c) higher quality of teaching; and (d) the availability of adequate
sanitation facilities. The project will increase the number of classrooms, building a greater
number of smaller three-teacher multigrade schools rather than larger six-teacher schools
in those cases where the smaller schools would allow for significantly shorter distances
between school and home. It will put a strong emphasis on school-level improvements to



11
teaching and learning and will rehabilitate existing schools and install or upgrade sanitation
facilities.
3.3   Donor interventions have been coordinated through a series of meetings and joint
planning sessions and can be broken down roughly as follows (Annex 3). USAID will
provide financing in support of improved management sector-wide, at the central ministry,
regional, and prefectoral levels: development of textbooks and teachers' guides; in-service
training for teachers and principals; training for financial managers and planning personnel;
long-term technical assistance for financial management training within the DAAF; training
for the school statistics unit within the SSP; and support for girls' initiatives. The only
long-term technical assistance to be provided by USAID will be for training personnel,
with specific evaluation criteria based on achievement of training objectives and the
transfer of technical skills. France will provide technical assistance focusing particularly
on the design and delivery of pre-service teacher training, program planning and program
evaluation. Canada will provide support over two years to strengthen VET management
within the MEPUFP and girls' participation in vocational training courses. In addition,
the FED will build approximately 200 primary classrooms per year in rural areas and
construct a new training institute for secondary school teachers, as well as finance training
and support of primary school teachers.   The Japanese government will build
approximately 75 primary classrooms per year, mostly in urban areas in the interior of the
country.  The AfDB  will support classroom  construction, primary-level textbook
provision, and girls' initiatives. Donors' contributions and schedules of intervention were
assessed during appraisal in terms of their coherence and relevance (see Annex 3). All
donors remain in close communication. Overlapping responsibilities have been largely
eliminated and donor programs are complementary. IDA will be responsible for working
with the Government on overall donor coordination.
3.4   IDA will provide financing to the Government's education development program
that is targeted to the school and classroom levels, strengthening the role of school-level
personnel in introducing and managing change and improving quality: improved classroom
teaching and classroom management, purchase and maintenance of textbooks, evaluation
of student learning, improvement of student learning capacity, and development of
maintenance and upkeep functions. IDA will provide only short-term technical assistance.



12
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.5    The project components are summarized below:
Project Summary (total cost USS53.0 million)."
1. Increase Primary School Enrollment and Completion Rates (US$29.3 million) by:
- building and rehabilitating primary schools; and
- improving community-level capacity for school maintenance and upkeep functions.
2. Improve Teaching and Student Learning (USS18.7 million) by:
- providing textbooks at both the primary and lower secondary levels;
- supporting primary school staff development and school improvement; and
- increasing student learning capacity through a school-based micronutrient supplement
and deworming program.
3. Strengthen Education System Management (US$4.7 million) by:
- creating the capacity for systematically monitoring student learning;
- developing a viable communications system within the sector;
- improving sector planning, budgeting and monitoring; and
- supporting pre-investment studies for establishment of closer Ministry/private sector
links.
"Includes taxes and duties, base costs, contingencies and two PPF advances totaling US$329,000.
1. Increase Primary School Enrollment and Completion Rates (US$29.3
million)
3.6    Scope and Objectives. This component supports the Government's objective of
increasing the gross primary school enrollment rate from 29% in 1989/90 to 53% in
1999/2000 and to increase the gross primary school enrollment rate of girls from 18 to
42%. Overall gross primary school enrollment in 1993-94 stood at 40%; girls' gross
primary school enrollment stood at 29% (their percentage of total enrollment has remained
unchanged at 32% for four consecutive years). This increase will lead to the hiring of
additional primary school teachers over the program  life.  The recruitment of 600
additional primary school teachers for the 1995/1996 school year is a condition for credit
effectiveness [para. 6.3 (a)]. An additional 1,800 teachers will be recruited over the
project duration. The majority of teacher candidates will have already received pre-service
training prior to the year of in-service training (there is currently a pool of 2,000 graduates
of pre-service training who have not been hired), and an additional 350 new candidates
will continue receiving training each year during the five years of the project, as per
existing capacity. Government has sponsored studies financed by a grant from Japan
under the Policy and Human Resources Development Fund to provide operational
approaches to increase girls' enrollment (see below). A field survey among communities
to identify factors positively influencing girls' participation was conducted under a PPF.



13
3.7   Support for Girls' Schooling.  Studies conducted during project preparation
demonstrated that girls' enrollment is highly sensitive to the physical environment of the
school. In particular, parents in Guinea want: (a) adequate sanitary facilities for girls; (b) a
safe and comfortable physical environment; and (c) schools that are relatively close to
home. They are also much less likely to send their girls to school if the local school does
not offer a complete primary cycle. The construction program responds to these concerns
by: (a) initiating a program to provide adequate sanitary facilities at all schools; (b)
involving parents in a program of upkeep and maintenance; and (c) emphasizing smaller
multigrade classrooms in rural areas so that schools can be closer to individual
communities and yet still offer a complete primary cycle. In addition, the recruitment of
teachers will be done under new guidelines adopted already by Government to increase the
number of female teachers in rural areas where they had previously been virtually non-
existent.
3.8   The project will finance the following two components: (a) building and
rehabilitating primary schools; and (b) improving community-level capacity for school
maintenance and upkeep functions.
(a)   Build and rehabilitate primary schools (US$28.0 million)
3.9   Scope and Objectives.  Government aims to increase total primary school
enrollment by 270,000 over the life of the project, moving from 471,100 in 1993/94 to
740,000 in 1999/2000, for a gross primary school enrollment rate of 53%, and to increase
girls' participation. The Government is increasing the use of multigrade teaching in rural
areas from 74 classrooms to 574 classrooms, or approximately 100 additional multigrade
classrooms each year. This is in line with experience gained under the pilot multigrade
program in the PASE and will represent an economy of 500 classrooms and teachers over
the project lifespan while boosting girls' enrollment by offering a complete primary cycle
where it is not yet available. These measures, together with other cost efficiency gains and
the development of the private sector will mean the need for 3,900 new primary
classrooms in the public sector over five years, or 780 per year (for practical purposes,
and because of the varying number of classrooms per school, this document refers only to
classrooms; in practice, however, the emphasis will be on the individual school as a
coherent unit).  Government will provide these classrooms as follows.  Current
commitments by donors, other than IDA and NGOs, provide financing for approximately
550 classrooms annually. IDA will finance an average of 120 classrooms annually;
communities will make annual contributions for the purchase of local material. The
difference (110) can be made up by direct community funding of schools, since during the
past four years, communities have funded approximately 300 classrooms per year (1,200
out of 2,400 classrooms built since 1990). Site acquisition is not considered an issue in
Guinea.
3.10  In addition to construction of new schools, the Govermnent's program calls for
school rehabilitation. This follows a long period of neglect of school infrastructure; it had



14
initially been intended that school rehabilitation be begun under the PASE but this proved
not to be possible because of the lack of technical capacity, standardized norms, and
detailed school mapping information. These issues have now been addressed: norms for
school rehabilitation and maintenance have been prepared, personnel at the central and
regional offices of the school construction unit within the Ministry (Service national des
infrastructures et des &quipements scolaires, SNIES) have received training, and school
mapping information has been updated to allow identification of schools where
investments in rehabilitation can be expected to be particularly cost-effective. Upgrading
of technical capacity for rehabilitation will continue throughout the life of the present
operation. At the same time, local NGOs will work closely with communities for all new
schools to ensure that they assume responsibility for ongoing maintenance needs (see
below). All communities receiving rehabilitation or construction funds will sign a contract
with the Government accepting responsibility for a specific program of maintenance,
according to norms already developed. This will ensure the sustainability of current
construction and rehabilitation efforts and will obviate the need for major rehabilitation
initiatives beyond the life of this project.  The primary school construction and
rehabilitation program for 1995-2000 was agreed upon during negotiations [para. 6.2 (a)].
Schools constructed or rehabilitated under the project will include sanitary facilities. The
joint annual reviews of the project will assess the progress made against monitorable
indicators for school construction and rehabilitation outlined in Annex 5.
3.11  In the past, the SNIES had the responsibility of directly overseeing ongoing school
construction at sites throughout the country. This approach proved not to be scalable, and
was the source of continuing delay as the Government sought to expand the number of
primary schools. Under the PASE, the Government and the donors developed norms and
standards for construction of primary schools and tested several pilot approaches to
school construction, working with local enterprises and with local and international
NGOs. In the course of this experimentation, the role of the Ministry's construction unit
shifted from that of school builder to that of manager and planner. The day-to-day
functioning of this unit was completely restructured. Regional offices were created with
the responsibility of overall quality control based on the agreed norms. The SNIES was
given responsibility for programming, overall management of school properties, and
development of norms and standards for construction and rehabilitation. It was re-
organized under two main divisions: Operations and Programs. The Programs division
handles scheduling, budgets, evaluation and information flows. The Operations division is
responsible for the implementation of programs and projects, delegating direct oversight
to the private sector, and implicating communities much more fully than in the past. As a
part of project preparation, these changes were incorporated into the legal texts organizing
the sector.
3.12  A participative construction seminar bringing together the principal donors and
stakeholders was held during project preparation. A key issue discussed was to find viable
partners for construction in the rural areas, where there are almost no viable small or
medium-sized construction companies. It was agreed that the most promising approach
over the lifespan of the current project is to work with existing international and local non-



15
governmental organizations who have a proven track record in school construction and
maintenance. They will in turn coordinate with local micro-enterprises and will manage
on-site construction activities. The operational details associated with this approach have
been finalized under PPF funding.
3.13  Project Support. The project will finance: (a) the construction of 600 primary
school classrooms; (b) the rehabilitation of 1200 primary school classrooms; (c) school
furniture for the 1800 classrooms to be constructed or rehabilitated; (d) related fees for
the management of works by NGOs; (e) fees for short-term technical assistance to oversee
overall progress; and (f) a series of school rehabilitation seminars in each of the 8 regional
capitals. A draft sample contract with NGOs for the management of primary school works
was submitted to IDA prior to negotiations [para. 6.1 (c)].
(b)  Improve community-level capacity for school maintenance and
upkeep functions (US$1.3 million)
3.14  Scope and Objectives.  Support will be provided under the project for
development of a viable maintenance and upkeep function within the sector. Communities
will be responsible for the regular maintenance of primary schools; they will receive
training and other support under the project through the intermediary of local NGOs. All
new school construction will include establishment of a maintenance function at the school
level, under the aegis of the NGOs responsible for overseeing the construction program.
The SNIES will assume responsibility for overall management of school properties and for
updating maintenance norms and procedures. For lower secondary vocational schools, the
focus will be on the maintenance and upkeep of equipment. Detailed criteria for upkeep
and repair/replacement of parts and equipment will be developed and monitored on a
school-by-school basis by the VET directorate, with those VET schools that successfully
follow an equipment maintenance program eligible for matching funds for equipment
purchase under the Government budget. For primary and secondary schooling, the
regional offices of the SNIES will assume a quality control role, and verify that
maintenance functions are being carried out. This will have the effect of transforming the
existing support for school maintenance under the budget (implemented under the PASE )
into a matching program, under penalty of loss of the modest level of funding currently
being made available. The project will include all primary and lower secondary schools
and the seventeen lower secondary VET institutions.
3.15  Project Support. The project will finance: (a) training of school and community
personnel in maintenance and upkeep through the intermediary of local NGOs; (b) training
for SNIES staff and personnel working in the regional offices; (c) incremental operating
costs for establishing SNIES regional antennae in Lower and Middle Guinea; and (d)
training of a maintenance person at each of the VET institutions.



16
2. Improve Teaching and Student Learning (US$18.7 million)
3.16 This component supports the Government's objective of improving student
achievement. In addition to providing textbooks, it will help reform teacher behavior and
build the capacity of the system to stimulate and respond to school and community-level
initiatives. Preparatory studies for the project financed under PPF funding and the
Japanese PHRD grant demonstrated parental dissatisfaction with both learning
achievements and teacher behavior. The studies revealed differences in teachers'
interaction patterns and attitudes toward boys and girls; these studies also revealed that
the teachers were not necessarily aware of their attitudes toward girls and indeed towards
children in the classroom in general. The studies proposed initiatives to improve
communication between the school and the community, to change the way school is
perceived by parents, and to modify teaching methods. In view of these findings, the
project will finance initiatives to improve the quality of teaching and learning that can be
expected to reduce the inequities in existing programs. The project will finance the
following three components: (a) providing textbooks; (b) supporting primary school staff
development and school improvement through a school-based small grants initiative; and
(c) improvement of student learning capacity through a school-based micronutrient
supplement and deworming program.
3.17 Support for Girls' Schooling. Repetition rates in primary schools in Guinea are
higher for girls (22.5%) than for boys (13.5%). Dropout rates are much higher, partially
because inefficiencies of the system are such that girls often reach the age of fifteen or
sixteen while still at primary school. This leads to parental concerns about pregnancy, or
increasing pressures for early marriage. Preparatory studies revealed a number of factors
believed to contribute to lower levels of learning among girls: (a) less access to textbooks;
(b) differences in teachers' interaction patterns and attitudes towards boys and girls, with
teachers largely unaware that they are paying significantly less attention to girls and
expecting less from them; and (c) greater household obligations for girls. Parents were
also more likely to cite health concerns as a reason for low attendance by girls than as a
reason for low attendance by boys. Another more subtle factor contributing to differential
attitudes toward girls may be the systematic bias in favor of boys found by an ACDI-
financed study of textbooks. The program integrates these concerns by: (a) ensuring
textbook availability to all students; (b) developing textbooks free of gender bias; (c)
designing in-service training for teachers that focuses on student/teacher interaction
patterns; and (d) developing a school-based initiative to improve student health status and
consequent capacity for learning through a deworming and iodine supplementation
program.
(a)   Provide textbooks at both the primary and lower secondary
levels (US$13.7 million)
3.18  Scope and Objectives.  The Government plans to improve learning quality
through the provision of textbooks, with a minimum target of one book each per student



17
for math and French at the primary and lower secondary levels. Yet past experience has
shown that distribution bottlenecks and poor use of textbooks by teachers can negate the
impact of books.   Therefore, distribution procedures are being tested prior to
implementation by the French Ministry of Cooperation, with responsibility for distribution
being given both to commercial firms and NGOs. The primary schools will be responsible
for working with parents to ersure that: (a) the books are used regularly by students; and
(b) the stock is maintained over a six-year period, after which it will be renewed by the
Government. The books will be made available to schools free of charge and rented to
students through parents' committees. All children will receive books regardless of ability
to pay. Similarly, at the secondary level, books will remain the property of schools and
will be rented to students at subsidized rates. Income from the rental will be used to
finance maintenance and renewal of the initial stock.
3.19  USAID will finance the preparation/adaptation of the primary school textbooks as
part of a process to help the Ministry overhaul its curriculum content, developing a
problem-solving approach and increasing relevance to real-life situations. USAID will
also finance construction of storage facilities at the prefectoral education offices
(Direction pr4fectorale de I'education, DPE) and collaborate with the French Ministry of
Cooperation to provide in-service training to primary school teachers in the use of the
books. The AfDB will provide parallel financing for preparation, printing and distribution
of an additional 11 primary school titles, with similar arrangements at the school level for
managing and maintaining the stock of books over a six-year period.
3.20 Sustainability. Textbooks are an essential component of any program to improve
school quality, without which efforts to upgrade teacher effectiveness cannot succeed.
The first step toward sustainability is to ensure that the sector develops the capacity to
distribute books effectively and particularly, to use and maintain textbook stocks
efficiently for as many years as possible. This component aims to assist Government in
training school personnel to maintain textbooks over a six-year period, while ensuring
their effective use. Parents' committees will be responsible for replacing damaged and lost
books through the proceeds of a textbook rental system. This will greatly reduce the
recurrent costs associated with replacement of textbooks and bring the overall availability
of textbooks up to an acceptable threshold level. The component thus establishes a sound
basis for introducing incremental textbook purchases into the sector budget within five
years at a sustainable level of cost.
3.21  Project Support. The project will finance 17 different titles for primary school,
including the six-year French series, the six-year math series, and the four-year science
series prepared by the INRAP with USAID support and 20 different titles for lower
secondary education. Specifically, the project will finance: (a) printing and distribution to
DPEs of approximately 2.4 million primary school textbooks; (b) purchase and
distribution of approximately 572,500 lower secondary school textbooks; (c) printing and
distribution of approximately 44,000 primary school teachers' guides; (d) development,
printing and distribution of approximately 12,500 lower secondary school teachers' guides;
(e) training and regional seminars on textbook management and use; and (f) provision of



18
foreign short-term technical assistance to help establish the technical and pedagogic
specifications of the bidding documents and to assist Government in bid evaluation (see
Annex 6). During appraisal, preliminary discussions were held with the Government and
the principal donors on the arrangements regarding textbook distribution and financing
policies; draft operational guidelines for textbook rental and replenishment were submitted
to IDA prior to negotiations [para. 6.1 (d)]. These will be included in the implementation
manual.
(b)   Support primary school staff development and school
improvement (US$3.2 million)
3.22  Scope and Objectives. This component will be the operational means for making
the school the locus of change in the Guinean education system. It will provide an
innovative approach to staff development by which teachers and school directors will
assume day-to-day responsibility for instructional leadership, with inspectors and
pedagogic advisors moving toward a role of pedagogic support, thus reversing the
unproductive and unsustainable top-down approaches of the past.
3.23  The "Small Grants Staff Development and School Improvement Program" was
developed through an intensely participatory process consisting of a series of seminars,
workshops, focus group interviews and discussions with key stakeholders at all levels of
the primary education system in Guinea. It is conceived as a five-year process of focusing
attention on teaching and learning processes and equity, and will be the cornerstone of
qualitative improvement in Guinean schools. Derived from the Government's statement of
education sector policy regarding the quality of teaching and learning, it is a key
transitional program to redefine the role of teacher, principal, pedagogic advisor, and
inspector.
3.24  The long-term objectives of the program are to: (a) help teachers focus on
improving subject matter teaching; (b) introduce promising new approaches to teaching
into the educational system; (c) explore promising approaches to teaching in resource-
poor environments; and (d) promote communications about promising approaches to
teaching among all stakeholders. The medium-term objectives of the program are to
operationalize the Government's commitment to bringing about school-based change and
to pass the message of the need for qualitative change in teaching to all stakeholders.
3.25  Program  Content and Structure.  Under this component, a program  of
competitive small grants for staff development and school improvement activities will be
put in place. Teams of teachers and school directors (potentially including representatives
of communities or parents' commnittees) will prepare proposals for funding. They will be
given training and technical support for the development of these proposals. In the two-
step selection process (prefectoral and regional levels), the following criteria will be used:
(a) the educational value of the proposed project, including (i) the significance of the
problems addressed by the proposal, (ii) the potential contribution to improving teaching
and learning at the school(s) in question, (iii) the probability of success in addressing



19
identified problems, (iv) the sustainability of the approach beyond the end of the grant
period, (v) the potential for generalization of the approaches proposed, and (vi) the
potential benefit for target groups, especially the poor, rural students, and girls; (b) the
feasibility of the proposed project, including (i) the fit between the activities proposed, the
time available, and the resources available, and (ii) the capacities, commitment and
potential of unit members; and (c) community support. The results of the small grants
program will be discussed at regional and national seminars with emphasis on what could
be generalized to the system as a whole.
3.26  Improvement projects will have multiple objectives, including the improvement of
instructional leadership, personnel management, teaching quality, and girls' access. In
general, each grant will represent a contract in which the Government provides
supplementary resources to teachers on condition that the teachers engage in a well-
defined and verifiable program of activities to increase their knowledge and competence,
and thereby to improve teaching and learning in the school. The Government has already
appointed two full-time coordinators (one at the national level and one for the pilot
region). The program will be modified in light of pilot region experience before being
extended to the rest of the country (Annex 7). The first annual review will evaluate the
results of the pilot program.
3.27 Project Support. The project will finance: (a) small grants averaging GNF
750,000; (b) foreign short-term technical assistance, most of which will be provided by
African nationals from countries within the region; (c) training activities; (d) travel
expenses for trainers and coordinators; (e) motorcycles for regional-level trainers; (f)
equipment and furniture; (g) annual seminars to disseminate results of the pilot program at
the national and regional levels; (h) incremental salaries for support services at the regional
level; and (i) general operating costs. Draft operational guidelines for the management of
small grants for school-level initiatives were submitted to IDA prior to negotiations [para.
6.1 (e)]; these guidelines are included in the implementation manual.
(c)   Increase student learning capacity through a school-based
micronutrient supplement and deworming program (US$1.8
million)
3.28   Scope and Objectives.  Malnutrition and poor health in younger school-age
children are linked to low rates of enrollment, high rates of absenteeism, early dropout and
low school attainment. A survey of the Guinean school-age population prior to project
preparation revealed levels of parasite infection sufficiently high to significantly lower the
active learning capacity of students. This means that investments in other inputs such as
teacher training and textbooks will be only partially effective in improving student learning
outcomes unless accompanied by parallel efforts to increase student health and nutrition.
In addition, efforts to raise the nutrition and health status of schoolchildren have been
shown to have potential benefits that are disproportionately greater for girls than boys.
This is particularly true for iodine supplementation. Since the enrollment of girls lags
significantly behind that of boys in Guinea, such improvements may help to close the



20
gender gap in education. Introducing nutrition and health interventions through schools
also offers opportunities to correct health and nutrition problems of public health
significance in the community by establishing a partnership between the school and the
local health centers and by making teachers more aware of individual student health
concerns.
3.29 Unlike in many countries, the Department of School Health in Guinea enjoys
strong support both from the Ministry of Health and the MEPUFP, and is staffed with
qualified personnel who have been seconded from the Ministry of Health to the MEPUFP.
Given this unique structure and history of institutional support, the project will strengthen
the capacity of this unit to effectively implement school-based nutrition and health
programs, and support several studies to set the stage for implementing additional
interventions to improve school nutrition and health in future operations. This program is
expected to have an immediate impact on student health and will dovetail with the
development of student health and environment curricula to be funded by USAID.
3.30 As part of the effort to learn how to improve student learning in Guinea, and to
continue to increase primary school enrollment, the Government will develop and
implement, on a broad scale, two high priority interventions-- the mass treatment of
parasitic infections and iodine supplementation through schools. This program will serve
as a pilot within the West Africa region and will inform future school health/school
improvement initiatives. Studies on a limited scale over the first year of implementation
will guide the expansion of these interventions to cover one million children by the time of
the mid-term review. Since it is a pilot project, the first of its kind in the region, careful
attention will be given at the time of the mid-term review to monitoring its impact and
communicating the results (see Annex 8).
3.31  Given the process-oriented, developmental nature of this component, the first
annual review will specifically focus on: (a) timely delivery of adequate supplies of
antihelminths and iodine supplements; (b) Government's monitoring of pharmaceutical
stocks; (c) ability of Ministry of Health and MEPUFP to formulate agreed guidelines on
mutual responsibilities for managing the component; and (d) monitoring procedures to
provide accurate information about the component's impact on student nutritional status.
3.32  Project Support. The project will finance: (a) one year of pilot testing and
baseline data collection; (b) purchase and distribution of antihelminths and iodine
supplements for an estimated total of 1,000,000 children; (c) studies and ongoing
operational research and impact evaluation; (d) training and workshops; and (e) a vehicle,
equipment, and operating costs for the Department of School Health.
3. Strengthen Education System Management (US$4.7 million)
3.33  This component will further strengthen the capacity of the MEPUFP to plan and
manage resources more effectively, and to improve: (a) its monitoring of student learning
outcomes; (b) its communications with regional and sub-regional units; (c) its school



21
mapping and statistical data processing, critical to a better understanding of girls'
participation. Support will include computerization of data entry to enable the statistics
unit to produce and disseminate statistical data during the current school year, in time to
influence budgetary allocation decisions and school construction decisions for the
subsequent school year; (d) its budgeting and accounting capacity; and (e) its links with
the private sector. To this end, the project will: (i) create the capacity for systematically
monitoring student learning; (ii) develop a viable communications system within the
sector; (iii) improve sector planning and budgeting; and (iv) support pre-investment
studies for establishing closer Ministry/private sector links.
(a)   Create the capacity for systematically monitoring student
learning (US$1.2 million)
3.34   Scope and Objectives. The Government has not yet established specific goals for
improving teaching and student learning. This is due, in part, to the almost complete lack
of reliable indicators.  An initiative to be undertaken with USAID  support, the
Fundamental Quality Levels (Niveauxfondamentaux de qualite), will establish indicators
of input quality (textbooks and materials, etc.) while the present component will establish
indicators of actual teaching and learning quality. The French Ministry of Cooperation
will support a complementary initiative to measure external efficiency, i.e. the impact of
schooling on subsequent employment. This will serve as a follow-up to a broad-based
evaluation of primary schooling in Guinea carried out as a part of the preparation for this
program. The generally negative results of this evaluation point to the need for more
information about what students are learning in school and how well they are learning it.
3.35   This sub-component will establish the capacity to periodically sample student
learning by developing reliable indicators of student learning in Reading and Mathematics
for all levels of primary schooling. Indicative tests will be prepared by MEPUFP with the
help of an international research center. The tests will be based on the local curriculum
and administered to randomly selected Grade 2, 4, and 6 classes throughout the country.
An evaluation center will be established to conduct tests every second year, thus providing
a clear indication of student learning outcomes and showing both the impact of project
activities and the evolution of the system as a whole. A sampling methodology will be
developed within the first year to help Government establish a permanent curriculum-
based testing capacity. Institutional and structural arrangements for the testing unit will be
determined during the pilot testing period. The French Ministry of Cooperation will
provide support for developing the capacity of the unit to evaluate the external efficiency
of schooling.
3.36  Project Support. The project will finance: (a) development and printing of six
curriculum-based tests of student learning, and establishment of a test item bank; (b) pilot
applications of each test on a limited scale; (c) two testing cycles for each of the six tests;
(d) short-term training of personnel responsible for testing and evaluation; (e) a total of 20
weeks of foreign technical assistance; (f) refurbishing of a building, with equipment and
furniture, for the evaluation unit; and (g) publication and distribution of test results.



22
(b)   Develop a viable communications system within the sector
(US$0.9 million)
3.37  Scope and Objectives. Without a dramatic improvement in communications
within the education sector, it will be difficult to ensure the close coordination needed for
project success. During the course of project preparation, a comprehensive study of
communication patterns revealed enormous amounts of lost time and opportunity as a
result of communication difficulties. Since sufficient improvements in the quality, cost and
coverage of the telephone system are unlikely to occur in the short term, it is proposed
that improved communications be developed by means of two related initiatives that can
function independently of the telephone system, although telephone system improvement,
where feasible, will also be sought: (a) radiocommunication among all subprefectoral and
prefectoral education offices, regional education offices, and the central Ministry offices in
Conakry; and (b) installation of electronic communication capacity for those offices which
have computer capacity and for the five regional education offices. In Conakry, the
system can function by means of radio modems, bypassing the need for functioning
telephones. Training will be provided in the use and maintenance of radiocommunications
systems and daily interprefectoral and intraprefectoral schedules for communications will
be established.  With regards to electronic communications, a feasibility study for
establishing an Internet connections was conducted as a part of project preparation, along
with an overall report on the Ministry's communication needs. An initial link was installed
under the PPF and successfully provides communications between the country and
external sources, including IDA. The internal links will be greatly extended under the
project, in line with recommendations of the preparatory studies which highlight the need
for careful attention to building efficient communications processes. This would support a
rapid two-way flow of communication and generate a much higher degree of horizontal
communication than currently exists.
3.38  Project Support. The project will finance: (a) radio communications for
subprefectoral, prefectoral and regional offices; (b) training in the use of new
communications systems; and (c) establishment of Internet links for central and regional
offices.
(c)   Improve sector planning, budgeting and monitoring (US$1.6 million)
3.39 Scope and Objectives. Under the PASE, a budget unit was established within the
Finance Directorate (DAAF) of the MEPUFP with responsibility for ensuring the flow of
budgeted funds to the interior of the country. There is now a need for a corresponding
internal audit capacity within the Ministry.  Auditing teams will be created with
responsibility for overseeing accounting procedures and disposition of funds at the
prefectoral level (SAAF). This will be complemented by USAID and French support for
central DAAF functioning.



23
3.40  In addition to these activities, since improvements in the capacity for decentralized
financial management will depend in large part on the availability of accurate, current
information about the school system, IDA funding will help the SSP develop the role of
information clearinghouse for the sector. The focus will be on ensuring that statistical
information gathered through the school mapping and statistical data collection exercises
is available and disseminated in such a way as to inform the Ministry's decision-making
processes. IDA will finance equipment and training for the school mapping unit to
decentralize the analysis of data and to more fully implicate prefectoral and regional
planners in school siting decisions. It will also help develop the capacity to update
maintenance and rehabilitation needs on an annual basis. USAID will provide funding for
technical assistance to the school statistics unit.
3.41  Project Support. The project will finance: (a) equipment and furniture for the
eight regional education offices; (b) short-term technical assistance for the development of
methodology guides; (c) training and initial establishment of teams to audit the SAAFs; (d)
training of key personnel and equipment in the school mapping unit; (e) annual audits of
the project and semi-annual audits of the special account; (f) study visits; (g) a beneficiary
assessment to be carried out before the mid-term review; and (h) incremental operating
costs.
(d)   Support pre-investment studies for establishing closer Ministry/
private sector links (US$1.0 million)
3.42 Scope and Objectives. Management weakness in two subsectors of the Guinean
educational system, i.e. private schooling and vocational training, has been such that
activities in these areas have often been at cross-purposes with stated Government
objectives. The private school support unit in MEPUFP, rather than encouraging greater
private sector involvement in and support for schooling, has frequently erected barriers to
the opening of private schools through costly administrative procedures, onerous
reporting requirements, and lengthy approval processes. As a result, the private education
sector in Guinea is among the least developed in the region, accounting for only 4.3% of
primary students, 2.3% of secondary students and 22% of VET students. Similarly, the
VET directorate has failed to establish links with the labor market and has maintained
expensive programs from which graduates have consistently failed to find employment.
Preparatory studies also demonstrated that the relevance and quality of VET are critical to
girls' participation: in the absence of significant employment prospects, parents show an
even stronger reluctance to send their girls to these programs.
3.43  Government, in its statement of sectoral policy, recognizes these shortcomings.
During the course of project preparation, a series of participative policy development
workshops were held, bringing together, often for the first time, private sector
representatives and Ministry personnel. This component will finance the ongoing process
of policy dialogue with a view to identifying reform initiatives worthy of investment
support (by Government or donors) in the future. In the VET subsector, support wili also
be given to the functioning of a broad-based commission evaluating the relevance of VET



24
programs on an institution by institution basis and introducing demand-driven changes as
well as ensuring the involvement of private sector companies. This process was begun
under PPF funding.
3.44  Project Support. The project will finance: (a) pre-investment studies of private
sector primary schooling; (b) policy-dialogue workshops for private school operators and
Ministry personnel; (c) pre-investment studies of VET programs; (d) training; and (e)
operating costs for the commission on VET school relevance.
C. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
3.45  Total program cost is estimated at US$141.3 million equivalent, with a foreign
exchange component of US$83.3 million equivalent. The IDA credit of US$ 42.5 million
will finance 30% of the total program cost, including 28% of the foreign exchange cost
(US$23.6 rnillion equivalent) and 43% of the local cost (US$18.9 million equivalent).
Guinea (Government and communities) will finance 18% of the program cost, including
21% of local cost (US$9.5 million equivalent), plus taxes and duties (US$13.7 million
equivalent). A five-year budget framework has been designed by the Government,
together with IDA, USAID and France. The Government has agreed on an average
increase for the operating budget of MEPUFP of GNF 2.0 billion per year during the
project duration. This represents an average increase of 3.5% per year. The MEPUFP
(which does not include higher education) will represent an average 17.5% of the national
operating budget. Primary education's share of the total education budget will increase
from 35% to 42% by the year 2000. The current teacher:student ratios will be maintained,
both in urban and in rural areas. Prior to negotiations, the Government submitted budget
projections [para. 6.1 (b)] and a draft investment program [para. 6.1 (f)] for 1995-2000
consistent with the policy and program priorities of the sector. During negotiations,
agreements were reached between IDA and the Government on budget projections for the
MEPUFP and the school construction and rehabilitation program for the period 1995-
2000 [para. 6.2 (a)]. The joint annual reviews of the project will assess the progress made
against monitorable indicators for teacher hiring outlined in Annex 5. The six cofinanciers
[AfD)B, Canada, European Union (Lom6 IV), France, Japan, and USAID] will finance
52% of the total program cost, including 68% of the foreign exchange cost (US$56.8
million equivalent) and 36% of local cost (US$15.9 million equivalent). Base costs of the
project are estimated at US$45.6 million and contingencies at US$7.4 million. Physical
contingencies of 10% have been included for works and goods. Price contingencies for
foreign exchange costs and local currency have been estimated at 2.2% and 4.0%,
respectively.
3.46  Recurrent Cost Implications. The first important recurrent cost implication of
the program investments is the incremental salaries for additional primary school teachers.
To ease the budget impact of hiring the primary school teachers needed to reach the
Government enrollment target, the FED will finance 1,000 teacher candidates per year for
on-the-job training, or a total of 5,000 over five years. The Government will allocate
sufficient funds in its budgets for 1997, 1998 and 1999, for the creation of at least 600



25
primary school teacher positions annually over the three-year period. Prior to the start of
the 1997-98, 1998-99, and 1999-2000 school years, the Government will recruit not less
than 600 additional primary school teachers. At current rates for salaries and benefits of
beginning teachers, this will cost 132,500 Guinean francs (GNF) per teacher per month.
The total incremental cost of GNF 5.7 billion (US$5.8 million equivalent) will represent,
with pedagogical material and taxes and duties, the Government's counterpart funding in
the program, beginning in the second year of the project. The capacity of the national
budget and measures to absorb this increase and the Government commitment to reassign
civil service positions in favor of the education sector were assessed favorably at appraisal.
The recruitment of 600 additional primary school teachers for the 1995-96 school year is a
condition of credit effectiveness [para. 6.3 (a)]. The second important recurrent cost
implication is the maintenance of the initial stock of textbooks at the primary level and the
textbook rental program at the secondary level (US$2.8 million equivalent over the life of
the project). This cost will be limited through the building of a stock maintenance
capacity at the school level for primary education and at the APE level for lower
secondary schooling.  The third important recurrent cost implication of program
investments is the cost of school maintenance during the project duration (US$0.5 million
equivalent). This cost will be kept at this low level by strengthening the communities'
capacity for school building maintenance and upkeep.



26
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION
4.1   Project preparation benefitted from: (a) an intensive dialogue, during PASE
implementation, among various government departments and the principal donors to the
sector, leading to an updated framework for education development (the Government's
Statement of Education Sector Policy); and (b) Bank/Government workshops supporting
policy development, strategic and financial planning, and investment programming. These
client consultation activities were financed by a grant from Japan under the PHRD Fund
(V61.5 million).  Additional support was provided by two PPF advances totaling
US$329,000.
4.2   A draft implementation manual was submitted prior to negotiations [para. 6.1 (g)].
During negotiations, agreements were reached between IDA and the Government on: (a)
the draft implementation manual [para. 6.2 (b)]; and (b) draft terms of reference for all
technical assistance (all short term) funded under the project [para. 6.2 (c)]. The adoption
of the implementation manual [para. 6.3 (b)] and the signature of contracts for all
consultant services required for the first year of the project [para. 6.3 (e)] are conditions
of credit effectiveness.
B. SUPERVISION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
4.3   The monitoring and evaluation of program performance, including investments and
policy reforms, will be carried out by the implementing units of MEPUFP over the project
life with the Steering Committee (Comite de pilotage du PASE, CP-PASE) playing a
coordinating role. IDA's supervision plan (Annex 10) and MEPUFPs monitoring system
(paras. 4.4-4.7) will be observed closely to ensure the most efficient use of resources and
the timely execution of project activities. Adequate supervision resources have been
programmed for each of the eight regional education offices as well as key central
Ministry personnel to ensure their active and continuous participation in supervising
project activities. Key monitorable indicators based on the Government's program (para.
3.1) are shown in Annex 5.
4.4   Government's  Monitoring  System.  The  organization  of the  PASE
implementation has been quite efficient and will be continued under this project. The
coordination and management of the project will be carried out by the operational units of
the MEPUFP as part of their functions. The Steering Committee, in its capacity as the
principal decision-making body of the MEPUFP, will be responsible for the overall
coordination and evaluation of this project.  It will also be responsible for the
implementation of activities related to sector planning and education improvements. The
Technical Secretariat for the PASE (Secretariat technique, Si), headed by the project
coordinator, is now part of the MEPUFP structure. It will coordinate the day-to-day
activities of the project and monitor project implementation and outcomes. The ST will



27
collaborate with the DAAF in preparing annual work programs and budgets and will have
the ultimate responsibility of compiling and providing reports and documentation to the
Bank as required by the project. The ST will serve as liaison between the MEPUFP and
the Bank.
4.5   In its project coordination role, the ST will organize joint annual reviews on the
status of project implementation and a mid-term review as well as IDA supervision
missions.  During negotiations, agreements were reached between IDA  and the
Government regarding ST's responsibility for ensuring that: (a) progress reports on the
implementation of the projet are transmitted to IDA not later than January 31 and July 31
of each year; (b) annual projected work programs and budgets are submitted not later than
November 30 of each year; (c) during the fourth quarter of each calendar year, a review of
progress made in carrying out planned activities for the current year is organized and
carried out with IDA [para. 6.2 (d)]; and (d) a mid-term review to evaluate the progress
made in implementing the project and the program is carried out with IDA and the other
principal donors not later than 30 months after credit effectiveness [para. 6.2 (e)].
4.6   The DAAF will be responsible for all of the project's financial matters and will
coordinate with the ST in the preparation of annual work programs and budgets for all
project components.  A project accountant within the DAAF will maintain project
accounts and prepare disbursement requests. A contract manager within the DAAF will
handle all procurement activities. Finally, the DAAF will assist the ST in preparing
progress reports and the documentation required for the joint annual reviews of project
implementation as specified in Annex 10.
4.7   The Department of Primary Education (Direction nationale de l'enseignement
elmentaire, DNEE) will be responsible for ensuring that the set of actions identified for
the Small Grants Staff Development and School Improvement Program and *the
improvement of student learning capacity is implemented. The DNEE, the Directorate of
General Secondary Education (Direction nationale de /'enseignement secondaire, DNES)
and the INRAP will collaborate in designing and evaluating the in-service training
component. Under the leadership of the ST, which will ensure coordination with DNEE
and DNES, INRAP will be responsible for preparing the pedagogical and technical
specifications for textbooks to be purchased; they will also participate in the evaluation of
bid proposals. Textbook procurement will be carried out by the procurement unit of the
DAAF (Annex 6). The SNIES will be responsible for developing construction and
rehabilitation norms and overseeing the overall construction and rehabilitation program.
Responsibility for monitoring student learning outcomes will be that of the evaluation unit;
this process will also help monitor project outcomes (see para. 3.35).  The VET
Directorate and the Private Education Unit (Service de 1'enseignement prive) will be
responsible for the implementation of the studies on Ministry/private sector collaboration;
the School Health unit will implement the school health and nutrition component, serving
as liaison for this purpose between the Ministry of Health and MEPUFP. The DPEs win
implement and monitor project activities at the prefectoral level.



28
4.8   Mid-Term Review. The Government and IDA will, not later than 30 months
after credit effectiveness, conduct a mid-term project implementation review to evaluate
the progress made in carrying out the project and meeting its objectives. During
negotiations, agreements were reached between IDA and the Government that the mid-
term review will include an evaluation of: (a) MEPUFP progress in implementing policy
measures; (b) the impact of policy measures on staffing, cost and efficiency within the
sector, and the increase in girls' participation; (c) the progress with recruitment of
teaching staff, (d) the implementation of the Small Grants Staff Development and School
Improvement Program; (e) the progress of the school construction and rehabilitation
program; (f) the progress in identifying reform initiatives in support of private schooling at
the primary level; (g) the progress in the evaluation of future VET programs; (h) the
progress in implementing the pilot school health and nutrition program; and (i) the findings
of the beneficiary assessment [para. 6.2 (e)]. The mid-term review will be organized by
the ST. It will be conducted with other donors affiliated with the project and will also
review progress in the implementation of their programs.
4.9   Implementation Completion Report. Sufficiently ahead of the scheduled final
supervision/completion mission, the Government will prepare an independent evaluation of
project implementation and outcomes. During the completion mission, IDA will ensure
that IDA/Govemment views are well understood by both parties, before being recorded in
an agreed aide-memoire.   Within six months after the credit closing date, an
Implementation Completion Report will be finalized by IDA.
C. IMLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
4.10  The project will be implemented over a five-year period (1995-2000). This time
period has been selected based on lessons learned from the two education investment
projects, the PASE, and over the course of preparation of this project. The five-year
period was also selected based on the expected outcomes of project activities to build
MEPUFP capacity, notably staff training and professional development. Annex 11
provides the framework for implementing project activities and the basis for planning the
physical aspects of project implementation. The disbursement schedule for the project is
provided in Annex 12.
D. PROCUREMENT
4.11  Table 1 on the following page summarizes the project elements as well as their
estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement.  Procurement management
arrangements and procedures are explained in paras. 4.12-4.15.  All Bank-financed
procurement within the project of goods, works, and consulting services will be in
accordance with Bank guidelines. ICB procurement will use the Bank's relevant standard
bidding documents. Selection of consulting firms for complex, time-based assignments
will be done on the basis of the Bank's standard letter of invitation and form of contract.



29
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS million, including taxes and duties)
Procurement Methods                       Total
Project Element                                     ICB         LCB        Other       N.LF.       cost
1. WORKS
(a) School Construction and Rehabilitation         8.1                   6.4a/       3.5*        18.0
(8.1)                  (5.3)                  (13.4)
(b) Emergency Rehabilitation                                             1.2 b/                   1.2
(0.9)                  (0.9)
2. GOODS
(a) Equipmentand Vehicles                          1.2                               0.7*         1.9
(1.2)                                         (1.2)
(b) Furniture and Materials                                   5.0                                5.0
(4.4)                              (4.4)
3. TEXTBOOKS
(a) Printing of Textbooks                          9.8                                2.9        12.7
(9.8)                                         (9.8)
(b) Distribution of Textbooks                                 0.7                                0.7
(0.6)                              (0.6)
4. PHARMACEUTICALS
(a) Antihehninths and Micronutrients               0.7                    0.1                    0.8
(0.7)                  (0. 1)                 (0.8)
5. SCHOOL GRANTS                                                            1.0b/                   1.0
(1.0)                  (1.0)
6. CONSULTANT SERVICES
(a) Policy Support                                                        0.1                    0.1
(0.1)                  (0.1)
(b) Project Preparation and hIplementation                                4.5                    4.5
(4.5)                  (4.5)
(c) Institutional Development                                             0.5                    0.5
(0.5)                  (0.5)
(d) Training Abroad                                                      0.4 b/                  0.4
(0.4)                  (0.4)
7. MISCELLANEOUS
(a) Local Training and Seminars                                           2.1                    2.1
(2.1)                  (2.1)
(b) Incremental Salaries                                                              1.2         1.2
(c) Operating Costs                                                       2.6                    2.6
(2.4)                  (2.4)
8. REFUNDING OF PPF                                                         0.3                     0.3
(0.3)                  (0.3)
TOTAL                                               19.8        5.7         19.2        8.3        53.0
IDA                   _(198                                     (5.0)      (17.7)      (0.0)      (42.5)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amountsfinanced by IDA, excluding taxes and duties. Slight
differences may occur as a result of the rounding offigures.
N.I.F. = Not IDA-Financed.
* Taxes and duties.
a/ Includes NGOs 'feesfor the management of the school construction and rehabilitation program.
bh Using procedures and models as detailed in the Implementation Manual prepared by Government, in accordance
with Bank Procurement Guidelines.



30
4.12  Procurement Procedures. Under the project, procurement procedures will be
undertaken as described in the following paragraph. Aggregate amounts are including
taxes and duties. IDA standard bidding documents will be used.
Works:
The civil works program, totaling US$19.2 million equivalent, covers: (a) the
rehabilitation or construction of 1800 classrooms; and (b) the emergency rehabilitation of
classrooms to be managed by NGOs hired under procedures acceptable to IDA.
ICB: Imported construction material contracts (for an aggregate amount of US$11.6
million equivalent) for the works in (a) above, estimated to cost US$250,000 each or
more, will be procured by NGOs following ICB procedures.
Other: Contracts for small works estimated at US$10,000 equivalent or less, totaling not
more than US$7.6 million equivalent will include procurement of local materials to be
managed and awarded by NGOs according to local shopping procedures in accordance
with section III of the IDA Procurement Guidelines. Beneficiary communities will initially
provide preliminary/complementary works like site preparation, construction of wells, etc.
Along with needs indicated by the school mapping unit, expressed interest in, mobilization
for, and significant progress of such participation will be major criteria for the selection of
the schools to be rehabilitated and/or constructed.
Goods:
ICB: Contracts for goods estimated at US$250,000 equivalent or more will be procured
through ICB. Goods procured through ICB will be exempt from price verification under
preshipment inspection by a third party inspection procedure. Vehicles, office and other
imported equipment for an aggregate amount of US$1.9 million equivalent will be
procured through ICB procedures as described above for construction materials, with
about 3-5 contracts. Eligible domestic manufacturers will receive a price preference in bid
evaluation of 15% (or the amount of customs duties, whichever is lowest).
LCB: Locally procured furniture, materials and supplies (US$5.0 million equivalent) will
be procured through about 30 smaller contracts in which foreign firms will not be
interested. Such contracts, not exceeding US$150,000 equivalent each, will be procured
using LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
Other: Small training materials and supplies will be procured through local shopping
procedures, for an aggregate amount of US$20,000 equivalent.



31
Textbooks:
ICB: The printing or procurement of initial stocks of textbooks and teachers' guides for
primary and lower secondary schools (US$12.7 million equivalent) will be through ICB
procedures. It is expected that each contract will exceed US$250,000 equivalent.
LCB: Services for distributing the initial stocks of textbooks directly to the schools
(US$0.7 million equivalent) will be procured through LCB procedures, acceptable to IDA
(see Annex 6). It is expected that each of the 7 contracts will be less than US$100,000
equivalent each.
Pharmaceuticals: Micronutrients and antihelminths for an aggregate amount of US$0.7
million equivalent will be purchased under ICB procurement procedures. Contracts for
drugs expected to cost less than US$30,000 each up to an aggregate amount of
US$100,000 will be procured by international or local shopping procedures.
Small Grants: The small grants (US$1 million equivalent) will finance school-level
initiatives to improve the quality of primary education and girls' schooling.  Small
contracts (less than US$2,000 equivalent each) comprised of various miscellaneous items
required for schools and related services will be awarded by local shopping and off-the-
shelf procedures. Applications will be evaluated for technical content and eligible criteria
outlined in the implementation manual.
Procurement and Services: Management, architectural, procurement, auditing and
various sectoral and technical services (including training abroad), for an aggregate
amount of US$5.5 million equivalent, wiil be procured in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to IDA on the basis of the 'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981. Technical assistance and training programs and calendars are
outlined in Annex 11.
Miscellaneous: Consumables, incremental staff salaries, supervision and local training
allowances, etc. will be acquired and paid for following regular Government procedures
which have been found acceptable to IDA and are defined in the implementation manual.
4.13  Procurement Management: The services of the DAAF will be responsible for all
procurement with the exception of that related to primary school civil works. Two
procurement specialists will receive training in IDA procedures. Short-term technical
assistance will also be provided to strengthen the DAAFs capacity to develop equipment
specifications and other bidding documents. The project auditor will be invited to assess
their performance prior to credit effectiveness. The DAAF will report bid evaluations and
contract award publication. It will also review procurement progress in semi-annual
reports to IDA. NGOs will be contracted to manage the primary school construction and
rehabilitation program under the supervision of the SNIES. Standard bidding documents
for LCB procurement of goods and services were submitted to IDA prior to negotiations



32
[para. 6.1 (h)] and agreed upon during negotiations [para. 6.2 (f)]. Table 2 details the
standard time frame for each procurement method.
Table 2: Maximum Period of Time in Weeks
LCB                   ICB
Preparing Bidding Docunents                     8-16                  8-16
Reviewing Bidding Docunents                     2-3                   2-3
Revising Bidding Documents                       1-2                  1-2
Preparing Bids                                   4-6                  6-8
Bid Evaluation                                   1-2                  1-2
Proposed Contract Award                         1-2                   1-2
Review of Contract Award Decision by IDA         -                     1-2
Contract Signature                               24                   24
19-35                22-39
4.14   Local Procedures:  A Country Procurement Assessment has not yet been
completed. However, the Borrower's procurement regulations and procedures have been
reviewed by IDA and the Government, and proposals for improvement are currently being
discussed. Pending an agreement, IDA standard bidding documents will continue to be
systematically used, as is being done satisfactorily under current projects.
4.15   Procurement Schedule: The schedule of major procurement activities is provided
in the annexed Implementation and Disbursement Schedules (Annexes 11 and 12). The
following are conditions for credit effectiveness (para. 6.3):
(a) Submitted bidding documents acceptable to IDA for all major packages to be
procured through ICB during the first year of the project;
(b) Signed contracts with NGOs for the management of civil works related to the
primary school construction and rehabilitation program; and
(c) Signed contracts for all consultant services required for the first year of the
project.
4.16 Review by IDA: During project execution, IDA-financed contracts for works and
goods above a threshold of US$150,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures.
The review process will cover 80% of the total value procured by ICB and LCB (about
95% ICB; about 30% LCB). Selective post review of awarded contracts below the
threshold level will be carried out for one in five contracts for civil works and for one in
seven contracts for goods. Post review of contracts for works (excluding building
materials) awarded through NGOs will be carried out by external auditors as a random
review of approximately 20% of the contracts. All consultant contracts will be subject to
IDA's prior review procedures. However, prior review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts will
not be required for contracts below a threshold of US$100,000 equivalent for consultant
finns, and US$50,000 equivalent for individual consultants, for which post-review
procedures will apply. Nevertheless, prior review will continue to be required for all terms



33
of reference, the employment of individuals, single source selection of firms, or
assignments determined by IDA to be of a critical nature or to amendments of contracts
raising the contract value to or more than US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent
respectively for consultant firms and individual consultants.
4.17 Procurement Information. During negotiations, IDA and the Government
reached agreement on procurement reporting tasks [para. 6.2 (g)]:
(a)   Prompt reporting of contract award information including packaging,
advertising, procurement method, estimated costs, and for every approved
contract the duly completed forms required by IDA;
(b)   Submission of comprehensive semi-annual reports by March 31 and
September 30 of each year indipating:
(i)   revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising,
bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual
contracts;
(ii)  revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project,
including best estimates of allowances for physical and price
contingencies; and
(iii)  compliance with aggregate limits on  specified methods of
procurement;
(c)   Preparation of an Implementation Completion Report within six months
after the credit closing date (Annex 10).
E. DISBURSEMENTS
4.18  The project is expected to be completed over a five-year period, with the IDA
credit disbursed over six years, according to the categories shown in Table 2. The
estimated disbursement profile is shown in Annex 12. Disbursement of the credit will be
fully documented except for expenditures valued at less than US$150,000 equivalent
which will be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation for
withdrawals under SOEs will be retained at the DAAF for review by IDA supervision
missions and for project auditors. To facilitate disbursement, the Government will open a
Special Deposit Account (SDA) in a commercial bank to cover IDA's share of eligible
expenditures managed by the MEPUFP. The authorized allocation for the SDA will be
US$1.5 million with an initial deposit of the GNF equivalent of US$750,000. IDA will
make an initial deposit of that amount from the proposed Credit upon credit effectiveness
and will replenish the SDA upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible
expenditures. Replenishment requests will be accompanied by up-to-date bank statements
and reconciliations of the SDA. Applications for direct payments and reimbursement or
requests for special commitments will apply to contracts above US$150,000 equivalent.



34
Table 3: Withdrawal of Proceeds of the IDA Credit
Category                                     Amounts of the Credit       % of expenditures to be
allocated (in USS million  financed (net of taxes and
quivalent)                   duties)
1. CIVIL WORKS                                       12.6              100% of foreign expenditures;
75% of local expenditures
2. EQUIPMENT, VEHICLES, FURNITURE AND                 5.1              100% of foreign expenditures;
MATERIALS                                                                80% of local expenditures
3. TEXTBOOKS                                          9.1              100% of foreign expenditures;
90% of local expenditures
4. DRUGS                                              0.8               100% of foreign expenditures
5. CONSULTANT SERVICES AND TRAINING                   6.8                        100%
6. SCHOOL-LEVEL GRANTS                                1.0                         95%
7. OPERATING COSTS 1/                                 2.3                         90%
8. REFUNDING OF PPF                                   0.3                        1000/0
9. UNALLOCATED                                        4.5
TOTAL              42.5
1/ Consists of incremental project-related administrative and running costs such as per diems, travel costs, offiice
supplies, fuel, equipment and vehicle maintenance costs, and some other small administrative expenses.
F. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING
4.19 The accounting system in DAAF was created during PASE and is working
satisfactorily. The DAAF will be responsible for the financial management of the project
and will maintain consolidated project accounts. Project accounts, including the SDA, will
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; all disbursements under
SOEs as well as the SDA will be audited semi-annually. During negotiations, IDA
reached agreement with the Government that it will submit to IDA annual audit reports, of
reasonable scope and detail, within six months of the end of the fiscal year and, in the case
of the SOEs, that it will submit semi-annual reports within three months after the end of
each audit period [para. 6.2 (h)]. The appointment of an independent auditor under a
multi-year contract acceptable to IDA is a condition of credit effectiveness [para. 6.3 (f)].



35
V. PROJIECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
5.1   Project Benefits. There are two main benefits. The first benefit will be the
provision of more and better education, which in the long term will contribute to poverty
reduction. The primary school gross enrollment rate will rise from 40% to 53% during the
project period. Rural students' participation will increase from 20% to 40%, and the
gross primary school enrollment rate of girls, currently at 29%, will reach 42% at the
primary level. The quality of education will be improved by providing an initial stock of
textbooks at the primary and lower secondary levels, promoting school-level initiatives,
and increasing student learning capacity by improving the health and nutrition of school
children. Support for school-level initiatives will develop innovative teaching practices
and provide for continuing stakeholder participation in improving the quality of learning
and teaching. The second benefit will be the further development of capacity within the
Ministry of Pre-University Education and Vocational Training to plan, monitor, and
manage the sector and sector outputs in a sustainable manner.
B. RISKS
5.2   Project Risks. There are two main risks. The first risk is failure to attain project
goals if the budget allocations for the sector, analyzed thoroughly to ensure their
coherence with the recurrent cost implications of the project, are not executed. This risk
will be addressed by agreements reached with Government regarding budget allocations.
Primary education's share of the total education budget will increase from 35% to 42% by
the year 2000. The Government will allocate sufficient funds in its budget for 1997, 1998
and 1999 for the creation of 600 additional primary school teacher positions for each of
these years. Prior to the start of the 1997-98, 1998-99 and 1999-2000 school years, the
Government will recruit 600 additional primary school teachers. The Public Expenditure
Review currently being implemented will also strengthen the Government's capacity to
assess the priority of education in the budget allocations. Budget targets have been
developed by Government with the full participation of all major donors. Budget
execution will be monitored on a semi-annual basis, subject to joint annual reviews by the
donors and Government.  A second risk is the current weakness of decentralized
education units in the management of budget resources. This risk is addressed by ongoing
efforts to strengthen the prefectoral education offices (DPEs) together with the DAAF,
and the use of short-term technical assistance to transfer skills to staff. The Small Grants
Staff Development and School Improvement Program provides an additional mechanism
for careful monitoring of new approaches for managing decentralized expenditures.



36
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1   Prior to negotiations, the Government submitted the following documents to IDA:
(a) Evidence of the recruitment of two additional personnel in the MEPUFP to be
responsible for conducting regular audits at the prefectoral level (para. 2.13);
(b) A draft Statement of Education Sector Policy (para. 2.19), with monitorable
indicators (para. 3.1) and budget projections for the MEPUFP for 1995-2000
(para. 3.45);
(c) A draft sample contract with NGOs for the management of primary school
works (para. 3.13);
(d) Draft operational guidelines for textbook rental and replenishment (para. 3.21);
(e) Draft operational guidelines for the management of small grants for school-
level initiatives (para. 3.27);
(f) An investment program for 1995-2000 consistent with policy and program
priorities of the sector (para. 3.45);
(g) A draft implementation manual (para. 4.2); and
(h) Standard bidding documents for LCB procurement of goods and services
(para. 4.13).
6.2   During negotiations, IDA and the Government reached agreement on:
(a) The draft statement of education sector policy (para.2.19), the monitorable
indicators (para.3.1), the primary school construction and rehabilitation program
for 1995-2000 (para.3.10), and the budget projections for the MEPUFP (para.
3.45);
(b) The draft implementation manual (para. 4.2);
(c) The terms of reference for all technical assistance (all short-term) funded under
the project (para. 4.2);
(d) SPs responsibility for ensuring that: (i) progress reports on the implementation
of the project are transmitted to IDA not later than January 31 and July 31 of each
year; (ii) annual projected work programs and budgets are submitted not later than
November 30 of each year; and (iii) during the fourth quarter of each calendar
year, a review of progress made in carrying out planned activities for the current
year is organized and carried out with IDA (para. 4.5);



37
(e) ST s responsibility for ensuring that a mid-term review to evaluate the progress
made in implementing the project and the program is carried out with IDA and the
other principal donors not later than 30 months after credit effectiveness(paras. 4.5
and 4.8);
(f) The standard bidding documents for LCB procurement of goods and services
(para. 4.13);
(g) Procurement reporting tasks (para. 4.17); and
(h) Submission to IDA of annual audit reports, of reasonable scope and detail,
within six months of the end of the fiscal year and, in the case of the SOEs,
submission of semi-annual reports within three months after the end of each audit
period (para. 4.19).
6.3   As conditions for credit effectiveness, the Government will have:
(a) Recruited 600 additional primary school teachers for the 1995-96 school year
(para. 3.46);
(b) Adopted the implementation manual (para 4.2);
(c) Signed contracts for all consultant services required for the first year of the
project (para. 4.2);
(d) Submitted bidding documents acceptable to IDA for all major packages to be
procured through ICB during the first year of the project [para. 4.15 (a)];
(e) Signed contracts with NGOs for the management of civil works related to the
primary school construction and rehabilitation program [para. 4.15 (b)]; and
(f) Appointed an independent auditor under a multi-year contract acceptable to
IDA (para. 4.19).
6.4    Recommendation.  Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed
project is suitable for a credit of SDR 28.5 million (US$42.5 million) to the Republic of
Guinea on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



38
Annex 1-A
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Total Area (thousands of square kilometers) .......................................                                            246
Per Capita GNP .......................................                                                                   US$537
Total Population (millions) ........................................                                                            6.2
Urban Population as%  of Total Population ....................................... 27.3%
Average Annual Population Growth Rate (1987-92) ........................................                                     2.8%
Life Expectancy (years) ........................................                                                                 44
Infant Mortality (per thousand live births) ........................................                                         133.2
Fertility Rate .......................................                                                                          6.5
Crude Birth Rate (per thousand) .......................................                                                         49
Crude Death Rate (per thousand) .......................................                                                          21
Age Structure of Population (% of total)
0-14 years ....................................... 46.7%
15-64 years ........................................                                                              50.7%
Total Adult Illiteracy Rate ........................................ 76%
Female Adult Illiteracy Rate ....................................... 87%
Gross Enrollment Rate
Primary .......................................                                                                     40%
Secondary .......................................                                                                   10%
Female Participation (as percentage of total enrollment)
Primary ......................................... 32.8%
General Secondary .......................................                                                        23.7%
Vocational Training Centers ........................................ 1.7%
Pupil/reacher Ratio
Primary .......................................                                                                       49
Secondary ........................................                                                                    19
Transition Rate (primary to secondary) ....................................... 62.3%
Primary Repetition Rates
Total .......................................                                                                       18%
Female .......................................                                                                    22.5%
Secondary Repetition Rates
Total ....................................... 22.5%
Female ........................................                                                                   24.3%
Sources:           The World Bank, World Development Report 1993: Investing in Health.
The World Bank, Social Indicators of Development, 1994.
Ministry of Pre-University Education and Vocational Training, Conakry, Guinea,
Annuaire stahshque, 1991-1992, 1992-1993, 1993-1994.



39                          Annex 1-B
LABOR                  Page 1 of I
DES      MARKET
DES  
UNIVERSITY
5-7 YEARS
LABOR
S                      T       MARKET
E                     BTS
H  C
I  0            BAC2    26
G  N                     1 re
HD -D____
E  A
R  R
Y
LABOR
MARKET
S
E                          CAP
L  C                          36
0 0             BEPC         26                      Legend
W  N                          lere
E  D                 _                            Drop out
R  A ,
R   L                _                   W    VET
-    General education
CEPE
P
R              _
I        l_            _       _      -   X
A
R
y



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE MEPUFP
MINISTRE
CABINET
INSPECTIONI                    IS       ATI                                          SECRETAIRE|
| GENERALE                      T TECHNIQUE                                          GENERAL
CCOITE DE
PILOTAGE DUW
i   IDi     nMEPUFP
IDivision des Affaires Administratives                                        Direction Nationale de l'Enseignement                                                       o
|et Financieres (DAAF)                       !          j             |       jElementaire (DNEE)
jServices des Statistiques                                            |       Direction de l'Enseignement                                 ;
let de la Planification  (SSP)               !I                                  condaire General (DNESG)
iService National des Infrastructures                                         Direction de    Enseignement
let des Equipements Scolaires (SNIES)                                          Technique et Professionnel (DNETP
iService de la Logistique  (SERLOG)                                       H    Institut National de la Recherche et de
!                         |       i                g       l~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Action Pedagogique (INRAP)
II                                                                             |
iservice de l'Infomation, de la               I----                       -   Service National d'Alphabetisation (SNA)
IDocumentation et des Archives (SINDA)l 
Service des Examena et concours Scolaires (SECSO)i
W   Service do l'Enseignement Prive (SEP)                  i                              X
0Il



41
Annex 2
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
EDUCATION DATA
Global description of pre-university students and teachers in Guinea, school year 1993-1994
PRMARY SCHOOILS                              Students                    Teachers Teaching
Regions    Schools    Classes    Groups       Total      Girls     % Girls     Total      Female    % Fem
Conakry        161       1516       1854    111040       47632      43           1987        974      49.02
Kindia        512       1821       1917      89127      27857      31.26       1845        341       18.48
Labe        757       2297       2101      93324      28179       30.19       1969        401      20.37
Kankan        555        1730       1683     77265       21434      27.74       1618        284       17.55
Nzerekore        851      2587        2605    100364       28956      28.85       2553        292       11.44
Total      2836       9951      10160    471120    154058        32.7         9972       2292      22.98
LOWER SECONDARY                              Students                     Teachers Teaching
Regions    Schools    Classes    Groups       Total      Girls     % Girls     Total     Female    % Fem
Conakry         32        422        433      32774      10487      32            801        251      31.34
Kindia         44        295        290      14460       3261      22.55        515         47        9.13
Labe         61        338        317      13442       3361      25           424          26       6.13
Kankan         30         180        177       9749       1613      16.55        243         17        7.00
Nzerekore         55        297        287      14121       2231      15.80        508         29        5.71
Total       222       1532       1504      84546      20953       24.78       2491        370      14.85
UPPER SECONDARY                              Students             |      Teachers Teaching
Regions    Schools    Classes    Groups       Total      Girls     % Girls     Total     Female    % Fem
Conakiy         10        165        173      10210       2563       25.10        365         75      20.55
Kindia         14        123        121       5578       1131      20.28        249         15        6.02
Labe         16         83         81       2836        708      24.96        189           8       4.23
Kankan          11        81          71       3110        483      15.53        237         30       12.66
Nzer&ore          10         82         82       3633        503      13.85        179          4        2.23
Total        61        534        528      25367       5388       21.24       1219        132      10.83
VET                                  Students                    Teachers Teaching
Regions    Schools    Classes    Groups       Total      Girls     % Girls     Total     Female    % Fem
Conakry         23        173        213       4257       1388       32.61       586          48       8.19
Kindia          7         54         60       1135        224      19.74        185          6        3.24
Labe          7         31         52        870        287      32.99        124           6       4.84
Kankan          7         38          49        915        291      31.80        175          6        3.43
Nzerekore          6         29         49        928        131      14.12        123          2        1.63
Total        50        325        423       8105       2321       28.64       1193         68         5.7



42                              Annex 3
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STATEMENT OF EDUCATION SECTOR POLICY
Reference documents:
-     Statement of education sector policy adopted by the Government on September 19,
1989;
-     Previous letter of education development policy dated October 21, 1989;
-     Joint aide-memoire dated May 11, 1993 reporting on the second joint donor review of
PASE I
-     Findings of surveys and studies done on the education system in Guinea in the context
of preparing for PASE II.
These documents define the framework within which the Programme dAjustement
Sectoriel de lEducation I - PASE I (Education Sector Adjustment Program) was implemented
from October 1990 to June 1994 and record the efforts made during this period and the
recommendations proposed for continuing the development and improvement efforts during
the next phase from 1995 to 2000.
The accomplishments of PASE I:
Started by the Government in October 1990, with the joint participation of three
donors: the World Bank, the French Ministry of Cooperation and USAID, the Education
Sector Adjustment Program was concluded successfully in June 1994. It entailed the
participation of all the actors in the education sector, the rehabilitation of sector management
and the transparency of activities The main results included the following:
(a)   The Budget management was reformed, as a result of the reorganization that took
place (creation of a budget unit and a counterpart funds management unit) and the level of
performance achieved in terms of the computerization and budgeting of the action plans. After
increasing from 14% in 1990 to 26% in 1991, the proportion of the national operating budget
allocated to education stabilized in 1992 at 25.2%, with 35% of this going to elementary
education; this distribution was maintained in 1993.
(b)   The human resource development plan introduced in 1991 led to the publication of a
special statute for pre-university teaching personnel and the redeployment of 1,806 teachers to
the primary grades. In parallel, 8,000 primary school teachers received refresher courses in
French  and mathematics; 64 teacher training  school teachers and  111  teaching
advisors/mentors were trained at the Institut Superieur des Sciences de l'Education.
(c)    1,500 classrooms were built during the PASE period, with the assistance of the
international community and as many again were built with national funds, the national budget
and voluntary individual contributions, i.e. about 3,000 classrooms in all. In addition, a



43                               Annex 3
Page2 of 6
prograrn for the rehabilitation of school and administrative buildings now covers all regions of
the country, under the supervision of regional branches of the School Construction Service.
(d)   A vast program to provide school furniture, textbooks and supplies is gradually
improving working conditions in the classrooms, significantly impacting local economic life and
making a start on gradually getting the families to assume certain operating costs.
(e)    Thanks to the national campaign to gather statistical data on schools (students,
personnel and infrastructure) conducted in 1991, it has been possible to establish reliable annual
statistics and an operational school mapping system.
(f)    All these measures have had a spectacular effect on the gross school enrollment rate,
which rose from 28% in 1990/91 to 40% in 1993/1994; the enrollment rate in the first year of
primary education rose from 38.92% in 1991 to 50.72% in 1994.
(g)   The priority the Government has given to elementary education has not interfered with
efforts to assist the other education subsectors: teacher trainers have been trained for secondary
education, in conjunction with plans to set up scientific laboratories and pedagogical
documentation centers. Following exhaustive studies, a Statement of National Policy on
Technical Education and Vocational Training was also adopted in March 1994 with a view to
improving the linkage between the programs of this subsector and the job market.
(h)   Nonformal education has also benefited from the momentum generated by the PASE
as regards the gradual implementation of the "Basic Education for All" National Action Plan:
the creation of a Centre Experimental dEducation Technologique et Artisanale - CETA
(Experimental Technological and Artisanal Education Center) to help young people enter the
job market; the experimentation with two "NAFA" centers, second chance schools for young
people not in school, or who have dropped out, in the 10-17 age bracket; surveys and
awareness-raising campaigns to encourage school enrollment among girls. The literacy rate
has risen from 26% to 28%, with particular efforts to extend initial literacy training with special
or vocational training courses.
Plans and priorities of PASE II:
(a)   In reaffirming the priority given to the education sector as a means of furthering socio-
economic development, the Government will maintain rigor and transparency in the
management of the education budget in order to make more efficient use of the resources
available, improve the quality of teaching and increase the enrollment and literacy training rate
as part of the plan for Education for All.
(b)   The increased resources now made available to the sector should guarantee. the
implementation of minimum  standards as regards investment in capital equipment and
operating expenditures designed to promote the three levels of pre-university education, with
priority being given to the elementary level. Measures to compensate for the transitory costs of



44                                Annex 3
Page3 of 6
the program will be adopted to benefit the underprivileged groups: girls, young people in the
rural areas who have dropped out of school or are not enrolled, and illiterate adults, especially
in the rural areas.
(c)    The expansion of the multigrade class program in rural areas, the continuation of
experiments in environmental education, population education and training in technological and
practical skills will help to tailor education to social and economic development, making it part
of a process to reform Guinean schools.
(d)   In order to continue efforts to restructure the administration of the sector and to
strengthen its management, inspection and extension capabilities, training activities for all
categories of education personnel will be developed as part of a human resources development
plan.
Building on the accomplishments of PASE I, the results of surveys, studies, an
evaluation of the education system and the recommendations made by various experts, the
Government has identified the following priority areas:
the efficiency of the education system;
t he quality of teaching and training;
-more equitable access to education.
In order to achieve this, the following actions are envisaged for the period 1995-2000:
Quantitative improvements and gains in efficiency
(a)    The establishment of a new MIEPUFP organizational structure as the result of the
operational audit of the central services and the extension of the functional reorganization to
the decentralized services (IRE and DPE), in conjunction with a systematic plan for the training
of professional and technical staff and the improvement of worldng conditions and
communications, particularly between the Ministry and the decentralized services.  The
ultimate objective is to make the department's general structure more performance-oriented by
more clearly defining the responsibilities of the various services, improving the circulation of
information and upgrading staff skills.
(b)    The construction of 780 classrooms per year and the gradual rehabilitation of existing
premises, particularly schools housing multigrade classes. All this will be backed by large-scale
awareness-raising efforts targeting local authorities, parent associations and friends of the
schools with a view to their assuming responsibility for building maintenance.
(c)    Building expansion and the rehabilitation of school premises at other education levels:
colleges and lyc&es, vocational training centers.
(d)   The computerization of personnel management and the rationalization of qualifications
and jobs via reference to the legislation that governs training services and schools.



45                              Annex 3
Page4 of 6
(e)   The strengthening of decentralized services in the area of personnel management and
qualifications, compliance with the school mapping system and the supervision of construction
and rehabilitation works on school and administrative premises.
(f)    The establishment of an emergency fund for the most urgent rehabilitation needs
caused by storms, etc.
Qualitative improvement through:
(a)   Research/action aimed at adapting schools to their environment to enable them to play
a bigger role in the area of social and economic development: environmental education,
population education, technological education and manual skill training, Basic Education for
All, etc.
(b)   Extending multigrade classes at the rate of 100 per year and strengthening supervision
with a view to improving the organization of the work of students and teachers, learning
techniques and methods.
(c)   Establishing a network for the distribution and management of school textbooks so as
to guarantee their delivery to and use at all schools, in parallel with an expanded program to
train teachers in the use of the books and an awareness-raising campaign among families
through parent associations.
(d)   Improving the health of students in order to increase their capacity to learn, by
introducing health education and providing schools with pharmacies.
(e)   Improving the operating conditions in secondary schools through closer supervision of
the teachers, the supply of school textbooks and provision of equipment for the laboratories
and the Documentation and Information Centers. Students will also be evaluated on arrival
and departure from colleges and lycees with a view to adapting their training to the
professional requirements of the productive sector.
(f)    Establishing a small grants program aimed at jump-starting the process of introducing
innovations in teaching and learning while developing initiative at the prinary school level.
(g)   Implementing the national policy on technical education and vocational training in
keeping with the school mapping system, which is linked to regional economic development,
and conducting research on training methods in partnership with the private sector.
(h)   Implementing the national Education for All plan within the framework of PASE II
extended to the nonformal sector: the systematic development of literacy training for children
and adults, the expansion of CETAs and the NAFA Centers.



46                              Annex 3
Pages of 6
(i)   Incorporating introductory cultural and physical education activities into the programs,
particularly in the preliminary teacher training course.
()    Paying special attention, at every level of intervention, to the advancement of girls and
women, with a view to reducing the inequity of which they are victims: transversal and
multisectoral operations will be undertaken in order to provide them with greater access to
education and vocational training.
Upgrading of institutional capabilities
(a)   Examination and monitoring, on the occasion of joint meetings with PASE II donors,
of budgetary allocations and expenditures incurred on operations and investments, looking at
annual expenditures by education level and type of expenditure. These allocations and
expenditures should be sufficient to accomplish the following objectives:
-     to maintain the share of the MEPUFP budget in the State operating budget at 17.5%;
-     to allocate an amount for non-salary operating expenditures equivalent to US$7 [per
student] in primary education, US$5 of which for pedagogical materials; and the equivalent of
US$12 per student in secondary education, US$8 of which for pedagogical materials;
-     to gradually increase the share of primary education in the total education budget from
35% to 42% by the year 2000;
-     to hire 600 primary school teachers per year in the 1997/98, 1998/99 and 1999/2000
school years.
(b)   Increasing local community participation in the construction and maintenance of
primary schools and gradually getting the families, organized into student/parent associations,
to assume responsibility for their operation.
(c)   Promoting and expanding private education by facilitating access to permits for sites
and buildings and contributing to the smooth operation of these schools through pedagogic
oversight and supervision; this will call for institutional and legislative support at the central
level of the department responsible for private education, and of the decentralized agencies.



47                                   Annex 3
Page6 of 6
MATRIX OF MAJOR DONORS' ASSISTANCE IN THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Areas of           IDA     France   European   Germany    United   Canada   AfDB
Intervention                         Union                    States of
_________  (Lome IV)  _America
Planning                      X                                  X
SSP                 x                                            x
DAAF/SAAF           X         X                                  X
Curriculum                    X                       X          X
Training                      X          X            X          X
Textbooks/          X         X            X                                         X
Instructional                                      Possibly
Materials
Student             X         X                                  X
Evaluation
Private Schools     X
Equity              X                                            X
Research            X         X                                  X
Construction        X          X                                                     X
Communication       X
Student Health      X
Teachers' Salaries                        X
VET                                                   X
Estimated          42.5      9.5         15.6     To be         20.0       1.6      11.0
Funding (USSM)      -     _          _            deternined      _     _



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
BUDGET FRAMEWORK FOR MEPUFP, 1994-2000
AND MEPUFP BUDGETS 1991-1994
A. Demographic projections:
1993/94  1 1994/95 1 1995/96  1 1996/97  1 1997/98    1998/99     1999/00    2000/01 
Hypotheses   Private share (of pupils)            4.22%     4.68%       5.14%       5.61%      6.07%       6.54%      7.00%      7.46%
Public urban pupil-teacher ratio       58.5      58.5        58.5       58.5       58.5        58.5        58.5       58.5    m
Rural pupil-teacher ratio              42.6      43.8        45.0       46.3       47.5        48.8        50.0       50.0
School-age population             1;1 75,366 1,207,871   1,243,436   1,279,882  1,317,245   1,355,565   1,394,879  1,435,334
Global GER                           40.1%     42.3%       44.4%      46.6%      48.7%       50.9%       53.0%      53.0%
School-age   Rate of urbanization                 26.8%     27.2%       27.6%       28.0%      28.4%       28.8%      29.2%      29.6%
populations   Urban school-age population        314,998   328,541    343,188    358,367   374,097    390,402    407,304   424,858
Rural school-age population        860,368   879,330    900,248    921,515   943,148    965,163    987,575  1,010,476
Urban GER                            76.0%     76.8%       77.6%       78.4%     79.2%       80.0%       80.8%      80.7%
Rural GER                            27.0%    29.4%       31.8%       34.2%      36.6%      39.1%      41.5%      41.3%
The lines in italics relate to hypotheses from the simulation.                                                           0
CDMC
0
Lrn



B. Budget projections:
School year                         1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97  1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01
Private share (of pupils)             4,22%    4,68%    5,14%    5,61%    6,07%    6,54%    7,00%    7,46%
Public urban pupil-teacher ratio       58,5      58,5     58,5      58,5     58,5     58,5      58,5     58,5
Rural pupil-teacher ratio              42,6      43,8     45,0      46,3     47,5     48,8      50,0     50,0
Redeployment                                               150      100        50       50        0         0
Dual shift system (classrooms, urban)  24,8%    24,8%    24,8%    24,8%    24,8%    24,8%    24,8%    24,8%
Interns                                                 I1000      1000     1000    I1000    1000          0
Budget item requirements                         592         0        0       563      585      643    1 302
Classroom construction requirements              254       280      600      953    1 001      1 054      325
Budget year                                      1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000
Estimated recurrent budget                     52 845   53 194   53 778   55 048   56 381   57 858
Recurrent budget with contingencies            54 167   54 790   55 661   57 250   58 918   60 751
Investments entailed                           12 878    8 203   13 223   13 873   14 591    4 453
MEPU share in the State operating budget       17,5%    17,6%.X 
QQ 
0x
o  .



C. Investments:
1995                             1996                         1997                  Total   Source    Type
1995-97   ExL Fin.   Ext.,
Fin.
Project Title                    BND        Ext Finr      Total    BND    Ext Fin.    Total    BND        Ext     TOTAL
Fin.
4203 ENAM Rehabilitation (2eme            0          704         704        0     14 226   14 226         0       0          0    14 930 FED           Grant
phse)
4204 2nd Eduction Project                 0         1 887       1 87        0          0        0         0       0          0      1 887 FSD
4209 Pqolation education                                                                                                                               Loan
Kinii National Sdiools of                      262         307        17       183      201         0       0           0       508 FNUAP
Health: construction                46
4226 Contr. 450 elmn clawroons                         0           0      243      1 830    2 073         0       0          0      2 073 ?            Loan
Riubilitatioaof p.imary              0        1 440       1 652      209      1 457    1 666        0   1 998       1 998      5 316 BID-O-PEP   Loan
schools                                                                                                                                           Grant
4230 Coakry                             212         5 853      5 947        0          0        0         0       0           0     5 947 FAD
4231 PASE cs/equip.run                                 0       2 824    2 041        243    2 284         0       0           0     5 107 USAID-FED  Grant
clA-)                                             0          0         0       915      915         0       0           0       915 ?             Graut
COmtequip. 9 librarier, high                                                                                                                      Grant
ad0ool                              94            0       1 233    1 007         0    1 007       312       0         312      2 552 USAID        Loan
4255 PASE (rhabilitation               2 824
4268 IRE/DPE)                              0        1 172      2 049        0        508      508         0       0           0     2 557 USAID-FED
4269 PASE (habilitation of ENls)                     346        1 114        0         0        0         0       0           0      1 114 FAC-USAID
PASE (Expansion high schook
in Conakry)                                   1 010       I 010        0         0        0         0       0           0      I 010 FAD
Third Education Project          1 233
4273 Education
877
4279                                    768
42951                                     0                                              1 
Toa IMEPUFP                            6 054       12 672      18 727    3 517    19 363   22 880       312   1 99        2 310    43 916
TOTALGOVERNMENT                       81 716      380 509    462 225   45 937   258704  304 641    12 559       171     184 273   951 138
714
MEPUFP Share                                                    4,1%                         7,5%                          1,3%
It
m m
O 41
_n}



Amounts notified and authorized for payment - 1991 - 1993 Budgets - MEPU-FP (FG '000
191                           1992                            19"3
NOTIFIED    AUTH.  %          NOTIFIED    AUTH.         %     NOTIFIED   AUTH.          %
AMOUNT AMOUNT                 AMOUNT AMOUNT                   AMOUNT AMOUNT
PEDAGOGICAL                    13,753,199  12,219,511 88.3%   13,774,760   16,245,664  86.5%   20,486,500  17,465,610    85.3%
EXPENDITURES
Expenditures on salades        11,031,190  10,708,633 97.1%   15,103,440   13,704,562  90.7%   15,701,750  14,979,844    95.4%
ELEMENTARY          Expenditures on pedagogical     2,722,009   1,510,878 55.5%    3,671,320    2,541,102  69.2%   4,784,750   2,485,766    52.0%
naterias
EDUCATION           SOCIAL EXPENDITURES                    0           0                 0            0                   0          0
ADMINISTRATIVE                  1,392,053   1,507,133  103.3  1,943,476    1,330,813  63.5%    1,982,500    558,371    28.2%
EXPENDITURES
Central admdnistration                        33,250                         70,339                        153,481
Decentralized administrnation              1,473,933                      1,260,474                        405,391
TOTAL                          15,145,253  13,726,694 90.6%   20,718,236   17,576,477  84.8%f  22,469,000  18,024,482    80.2%
PEDAGOGICAL                     9,432,001   8,846,238 93.8%   12,065,861   10,639,029  88.6%   12,548,750  11,227,566    89.5%
EXPENDITURES
Expenditures on saiaies         8,279,704   8,075,553 97.5%   11,327,580   10,278,421  90.7%   11,808,000  10,616,291    89.9%
SECONDARY           Expenditures on pedagogical     1,152,297    770,686 66.9%      738,281     410,608  55.6%      740,750    611,275    82.5%
materba
EDUCATION           SOCIAL EXPENDITURES                     0          0                 0            0                   0          0
ADMINISTRATIVE                   224,861    254,014  113.0    550,295       303,834  55.2%      507,250    156,252    30.8%
EXPENDITURES
Central administration                        34,156                          7,822                         66,839
Decentralied adInIstration                   219,858                        296,013                         89,413
TOTAL                           9,656,863   9,100,252 94.2%   12,616,156   10,92,864  87.1%   13,056,000  11,333,818    87.2%
PEDAG. EXPENDITURES             2,580,683   2,442,768 94.7%    3,740,616    3,497,257  93.5%   3,725,000   3,381,293    90.8%
Expendhtures on salaries        2,246,626   2,195,355 97.7%    3,0399340    2,803,205  90.7%    3,314,000   3,133,026    94.5%
VOCATIONAL          Expenditues on pedagogcal         334,062    246,913 73.9%/    651,276       694,052 106.6%     411,000    248,267    60.4%
EDUCATION           nmterals
SOCIAL EXPENDITURES              245,320      57,378 23A%      300,000      301,947 100.6%     336,000    308,632    91.9%
School canteens                  245,320      57,378 23.4%     300,000      301,947 100.6%     336,000    308,632    91.9%
ADMIN. EXPENDITURES              434,127    282,094 65.0%      580,406      426,122  73.4%      866,500    359,417    41.5%
Central admdnistration                       109,356                         67,178                         31,365                              >
DecentraHzed admnistradion                   172,238                        358,945                        328,051
TOTAL                           3,260,135   2,782,239 85.3%    4,621,022    4,225,326  91.4%    4,927,500   4,049,341    82.2%
0



Amounts notified and authorized for payment - 1991 - 1993 Budgets MEPU-FP (FG '000) ctd.
1991                           1992                             1993
NOTIFIED    AUTH.    %    NOTIFIED    AUTH.              %     NOTIFIED    AUTH.    %
AMOUNT AMOUNT                 AMOUNT AMOUNT                    AMOUNT AMOUNT
PEDAGOGICAL                       636,493     658,015  103.4    886,267       820,248 92.6%       933,000    830,077 89.0%
EXPENDITURES
Expenditures on salaries          555,345     536,457 96.6%      686,520      622,935 90.7%       833,250     786,577 94.4%
TEACHER                Expenditures on pedagogiac         81,148     121,558  149.8    199,747       197,313 98.8%         99,750     43,500 43.6%
TRAINING                naterlal
SOCIAL EXPENDITURES               183,990      30,395 16.5%      180,000      132,510 73.6%       204,000     123,991 60.8%
School canteens                   183,990      30,395 16.5%      180,000      132,510 73.6%       204,000     123,991 60.8%
ADMINISTRATrVE                    290,479     223,793 77.0%      251,758      211,566 84.0%       366,250     145,365 39.7%
EXPENDITURES
Centnd adnnlabtraion                           33,539                          28,541                          53,606
Decentraed admnhistration                     190,255                         183,025                          91,759                                      un
TOTAL                            1,110,962    912,203 82.1%    1,318,025    1,164,324 88.3%      1,503,250   1,099,433 73.1%
PEDAGOGICAL                             0           0                  0            0                   0           0
EXPENDITURES
SOCIAL EXPENDITURES                     0           0                  0            0                   0           0
ADMINISTRATION    ADMINISTRATrVE                        6,216,823   4,370,516 70.3%    7,842,561    6,357,138 81.1%     8,208,250   5,697,116 69.4%
EXPENDITURES
Central administration           2,860,439   1,950,226 68.2%    3,464,263    2,165,259 62.5%     3,833,250   3,054,148 79.7%
Decentralized administration     3,356,384   2,420,290 72.1%    4,378,298    4,191,879 95.7%     4,375,000   2,642,969 60.4%
TOTAL                            6,216,823   4,370,516 70.3%    7,842,561    6,357,138 81.1%     8,208,250   5,697,116 69.4%
GRAND TOTAL                                            35.390.036  30Q891,904 87.3%   47.116.000   40316.129 85.6%    50,164,000  40.254.190 80.2%
:>
OQD
(D (D
0
u,



53
Annex 5
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MONITORABLE OUTCOME INDICATORS FOR PROJECT
(AND PROGRAM)'
l  First Year   Second        Third    Fourth  J Fifth Year
1       .       Year           Year    Year
PRIMARY SCHOOL
Enrollment Targets
- increase in gross enrollment      (44)         (47)       (49)         (51)        (53)
rate
- increase of girls' participation  (33)         (34)       (35)         (36)        (37)
- additional classrooms to be        100         125         125          125        125
constructed                        (780)        (780)       (780)       (780)       (780)
- rehabilitated classrooms           240         240         240          240        240
- additional teachers in class    (1000)       (1000)     (1000)       (1000)      (1000)
- additional teachers positions                             (560)       (590)       (640)
- additional multigrade            (100)        (100)       (100)       (100)       (100)
classrooms
- additional private school
classrooms                         (200)        (200)      (200)        (200)       (200)
Quality Improvement Targets
-Printing/distribution of initial
stock of textbooks (IDA)                    1,172,000    649,300      540,750
- Printing/distribution of
teachers' guides                               22,100      12,250       9,500
- replacement of textbooks
(Govt/Community)                              58,600     126,250      219,650
- small grants awarded                18          78         189          246        275
- decrease of repetition rate         22          20          18           16         14
SECONDARY SCHOOL
- Printing/distribution of
textbooks (IDA)                              572,450
- Printing/distribution of
teachers' guides                               12,500
- Textbook Maintenance
(Govt./Comnmunity)                            28,650      57,250       85,900
BUDGET
MEPUFP as a percentage of
national operatinM budget         17,5%        17,5%       17 5%       17,5%       17,5%
'Figures in parentheses are indicators for the program and include those for the project.



54                              Annex 6
Page I of 9
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TEXTBOOK PROVISION
I. PRIMARY EDUCATION
1. Context and justification. The Second Education Project financed a school textbook
production program, which resulted in the establishment of a publishing unit within the INRAP,
the publishing and distribution of three titles (a mathematics textbook, a science textbook and a
third-year history textbook) and the preparation of nine other titles. Within the framework of
the PASE I, four titles were published and distributed. These are a first-year reading-language
textbook, a first-year writing exercise book, a second-year reading-language textbook and a
fourth-year mathematics book.  Additional books have been donated through bilateral
assistance. Despite all these efforts, however, there is still a shortage of books in Guinean
primary schools. The book-pupil ratio in the basic subjects is currently one to every seven
pupils. Hence the urgent need to make up this shortage.
2. Objectives. The objective of this sub-component is to help improve the quality and equity
of the education system by: (a) improving the book-pupil ratio from one per seven pupils to
one per pupil in French, mathematics and science; (b) ensuring that this ratio is maintained
throughout the project by providing the copies needed to cover any increase in enrollment and
by having parents replace any students' books that are damaged or lost; and (c) financing the
training of professionals in the field of school textbook publishing.
3. Publishing Program. The publishing program includes 34 titles (17 school textbooks and
the corresponding teaching guides. See details below). This represents a production of
2,405,878 copies (2,362,033 textbooks and 43,845 guides). This will be achieved as a result of
the following assistance: (a) USAID will finance: (i) the reorganization of study programs ; (ii)
the preparation, editing and testing of textbooks; (iii) the revision of manuscripts and
preparation of films of the teaching guides; (iv) an awareness-raising and revitalization
campaign among Associations des Parents d' Eleves - APE (Parents/Teachers Associations);
and (v) teacher training in better use of school textbooks; (b) IDA will finance: (i) the revision,
graphic design, printing and delivery to Conakry of 17 student textbooks; (ii) the printing of 17
teaching guides; (iii) the delivery of the books to the schools; and (iv) the training of personnel
in school publishing.
4. Activities to be carnied out with IDA financing
(a) Book production and distribution
School textbooks:  The work of final revision, graphic design, printing, packing per
school/DPE and delivery to Conakry will be contracted out on the basis of an international
bidding competition.



55                              Annex 6
Page 2 of 9
Teaching guides: The printing services will be procured on the basis of quotations from
national and foreign printers.
Delivery of the books to the schools: This will be handled by local private operators.
Reception of the books at the schools: This will be handled by panels [commissions] made
up, among others, of the school principals and teacher representatives, the APE/communities
and in the presence of the elders and union and political party representatives.
Bidding documents: Their preparation will be the responsibility of the DAAF/MEPUFP, as
will the monitoring of the procedures for the award and execution of contracts. The INRAP
will be responsible for drawing up the technical specifications for the books and for preparing
the stock management documents (i.e. delivery vouchers, stock files, etc.). The DNEE wil
draw up the list of all the primary schools with the quantities (per title) to be distributed to
each.
(b) Use of books and stock maintenance
The books will be the property of the schools, which will make them available to students
and teachers via a loan system. The parents of the students will make an annual contribution,
the amount of which will be determined by MEPUFP. These contributions will be used
exclusively to ensure that the books are kept in good condition and to replace any copies that
are damaged or lost in the course of the project. The money will be managed in the individual
schools by a committee placed under the authority of the Bureau of the APE and consisting of
five members: The President of the Bureau of the APE, the school principal, two teachers and
the Treasurer of the Bureau of the APE. In order to ensure that the schools are able to obtain
locally the books needed to replace copies that are damaged or lost, the INRAP will authorize
national private publishers to print the titles in question. The inspection programs will include
the control of stocks and of the efficient use of the books in the schools. Keeping books in
good condition and the efficient use of the books will, in future, be among the criteria used to
evaluate school principals and teachers.
(d) Stock replenishment. The replenishment of stocks will be funded out of the allocation to
the MEPUFP.
(e) Training. In order to help create a publishing unit in which the MEPUFP establishes the
pedagogical and technical specifications and whereby private publishers handle the production
and distribution of the books, six professionals (four from INRAP and two from DNEE) will
each receive a three-month scholarship for training abroad in the evaluation of school
textbooks and the formulation of their pedagogical and technical specifications.
II SECONDARY EDUCATION
Context and justification. The school textbook situation in the first cycle of secondary
education is disturbing. The book-pupil ratio is very low, approximately of one to four in



56                               Annex 6
Page3 of 9
French, one to five in mathematics and one to more than ten in science. The books currently
available were donated and are, on the whole, ill-suited to current programs. In other words,
the quality of teaching and learning is being seriously jeopardized by the lack of books at this
level of education.
2. Objectives
This sub-component has the following objectives: (a) to improve the book-pupil ratio in
the first cycle of secondary education to (i) one book per student in mathematics, French and
physics, (ii) one book to two students in English and (iii) one teaching guide per teacher for
every student textbook. This represents a total of 584,950 copies (572,450 textbooks and
12,500 guides); (b) to rent out the books and use the proceeds to pay for the maintenance and
replenishment of stocks; (c) to train the teachers in the better use of books; and (d) to build or
rehabilitate storerooms to ensure that the books are better looked after in the schools.
Actions to be undertaken with IDA financing
(a) Procurement and distribution of books: School textbooks: These will be procured
from the market, using intemational competitive bidding, on the basis of pedagogical and
technical specifications and price. In order to facilitate distribution operations, the supplier will
be responsible for taking care of packaging per school and per DPE. Teaching guides: These
will be prepared by the INRAP, including the films. As regards printing, delivery and reception
at the schools, see the primary education sub-component, paragraphs 5, 6 and 7. Bidding
documents: The responsibilities of the DAAF,MEPUFP in terms of the invitations to bid are
indicated in paragraph 8 of the primary education sub-component. The DNES, for its part, will
be responsible for preparing, with assistance from the INRAP, the technical requirements and
pedagogical specifications for the bidding documents. The DNFS wiU also draw up the list of
all the schools, with the quantities of books (by title) to be distributed to each. It will also
prepare the stock management documents with assistance from the INRAP.
(b) Access to books. The books will be the property of the schools. The teaching guides will
be made available to teachers through a loan system. The textbooks will distributed to students
through a decentralized rental system. Each school will set up a committee responsible for
managing the book rental system, which will fix its prices in keeping with its particular
environment. The proceeds from the book rentals will be used exclusively: (a) to procure other
textbooks in order to maintain a good book-pupil ratio; and (b) to replenish stocks. The
estimated number of textbooks needed to maintain the required ratio and their estimated costs
are indicated below.
(c) Care and use of the books. A spirit of competition will be introduced arnong the different
schools at the first cycle of secondary education and the condition of the books and their
efficient use will be made evaluation criteria for the inspections of teachers and principals.
(d) Training. In order to present the teaching guides to the teachers, five regional seminars
will be organized, with a total of 300 teachers expected to attend. Each seminar will last five



57                               Annex 6
Page4 of 9
days. Seminars will also be organized in the 38 prefectures. Five seminars will be organized to
train those responsible for book stock management. These will be attended by a total of 200
people and each will last five days.
(e) Directives on stockkeeping and replenishment. During the first year of the project, the
Government will provide IDA with a draft of the directives on the care and replenishment of
the stocks acquired under the project. This draft will take the form of a Ministerial Decree
covering the following issues: (a) book ownership; (b) composition of receiving panels,
including observers; (c) the institution of a decentralized book rental system in the first cycle of
secondary school; (d) general arrangements for the organization and operation of the rental
system; (e) the autonomy to be given schools in the management of the book rental system; (f)
the composition and responsibilities of the management committees; (g) the collection and
safekeeping of funds and their exclusive use for ensuring the maintenance of a good book-pupil
ratio (i.e. to replace any copies that are lost or that become damaged and to cover any increase
in student enrollment), and for stock replenishment; (h) the responsibilities of principals and
teachers with respect to the care and efficient use of the books; and (i) the responsibilities of the
various control bodies. The draft Decree will have to be signed prior to the issuing of the
invitation to bid for the procurement of the books.



58                                             Annex 6
Page 5 of 9
m. IDA Financing
A. PRIMARY EDUCATION
YEAR/LEVELITILE                                 ENROLLMENT           COPIES         U.P.(FG)  T.C.(FG)            T.C. (USD)
1996/1997
School textbooks
1. I st-year arithmetic                        203219                247927         968        239993510
2.2nd-year arithmetic                           117005               142746         968        138178225
3. Ist/2nd-yearsensorial exercises              320224               390673         968        378171735
4. Ist-year French (revised edition)            203219               247927         968        239993510
5. 2nd-year French (revised edition)            117005               142746         968        138178225
Total                                           960672               1172020                   1134515205         S1,160,036
Teacher guides
6. Ist-year arithmetic                          4064                 4674           3912       18284833
7. 2nd-year arithmetic                          2340                 269j           3912       10527642
8. Ist/2nd-year sensorial exercises             6404                 7365           3912       28812475
9. 1st-year French (revised edition)            4064                 4674           3912       18284833
10. 2nd-year French (revised edition)          2340                  2691           3912       10527642
Total                                                                22095                     86437424           S88,382
1997/19
School textbooks
11. 3rd-year French                            98556                 120238         1164       139957404
12. 4th-year French                            78845                 96191          1164       111966208
13. 4th-year science                           78845                 96191          1164       111966208
14. 3rd-year arithmetic (revised edition)      98556                 120238         1164       139957404
15. 4th-year arithmetic (revised edition)      78845                 96191          1164       111966208
16. 3rd-year science (revised edition)         98556                 120238         1164       139957404
Total                                                                649288                    755770836          S772,772
Teacher guides
17. 3rd-yearFrench                              1971                 2267           3912       8867675
18. 4th-year French                             1577                 1813           3912       7094158
19. 4th-yearscience                            1577                  1814           3912       7094608
20. 3rd-year arithmetic                         1971                 2267           3912       8867135
21. 4th-yeararithmetic                          1577                 1814           3912       7094608
22. 3rd-yearscience                             1971                 2267           3912       8867135
Total                                                                12241                     47885317           S48,962
1998/1999
School textboola
23. 5th-year arithmetic                         77387                94412          2210       208650829
24. 6th-year arithmetic                        70352                 85829          2210       189683062
25. 5th-year French                             77387                94412          2210       208650829
26. 6th-year French                             70352                85829          2210       189683062



59                                           Annex 6
Page 6of9
A. PRIMARY EDUCATION (Ctnd)_
YEAR/LEVEL/TITLE                             ENROLLMENT           COPIES        U.P.(FG)  T.C.(FG)           T.C. (USD)
27. 5th-year science                         77387                94412         2210       208650829
28. 6th-year science                         70352                85829         2210       189683062
Totel                                                             540725                   1195001675        51,221,883
Teacher guides
29. 5th-year arithmetic                      1547                 2011          5868       11801135
30. 6th-year arithmetic                      1407                 1829          5868       10733464
31. 5th-year French                           1547                2011          5868       11801135
32. 6th-year French                           1407                1829           5868      10733159
33. 5th-year science                          1547                2011           5868      11801135
34. 6th-year science                          1407                1829           5868      10733159
Total                                                             9510                     55802051          S57,057
Total for prinary level books                                     2405878                  3275412509        S3,349,093
Delivery to the schools                                           2405878       200        481175574         5492,000
TOTAL COST OF PRIMARY LEVEL BOOKS                                                          3756588083        S3,841,092
B. SECONDARY EDUCATION
YEARILEVEIJTITLE                       ENROLLM   QUANI"TIES  U.P.(FG  T.C. (FG)    T.C. (USD)
ENT
1996/1997
School textbooks
I. 7th-year physics                    39855         40700          7824     318436800
2. 7th-year natural science            39855         40700          7824     318436800
3. 7th-year mathematics                39855         40700          7824     318436800
4. 7th-year French                     39855         40700          7824     318436800
5. 7th-year English                    39855         20350          7824      159218400
6. 8th-year physics                    32382         33050          7824     258583200
7. 8th-year natural science            32382         33050          7824     258583200
8. 8th-year mathematics                32382         33050          7824     258583200
9. 8th-year French                     32382         33050          7824     258583200
10. 8th-year English                   32382         16550          7824     129487200
11. 9th-year physics                   27401         28000          7824     219072000
12. 9th-year natural science           27401         28000          7824     219072000



60                                       Annex 6
Page 7 of 9
B. SECONDARY EDUCATION
YEARILEVEIJTITLE                    ENROLLM   QUANTITIE  U.P(FG) TIC. (FG)   T.C. (USD)
ENT         S
1996/1997
School textbooks
13. 9th-year mathematics            27401       28000         7824     219072000
14. 9th-year French                 27401       28000         7824     219072000
15. 9th-year English                27401       14000         7824     109536000
16. 10th-year physics               24910       25450         7824     199120800
17. 10th-year natural science       24910       25450         7824     199120800
18. 1 Oth-year mathematics          24910       25450         7824     199120800
19. 10th-year French                24910       25450         7824     199120800
20. 10th-year English               24910        12750        7824     99756000
Total school textbooks                          572450                 4478848800  $4,579,600
Teacher's books
1. 7th-year physics                             750           7824     5868000
2. 7th-year natural science                      300          7824     2347200
3. 7th-year mathematics                         755           7824     5907120
4. 7th-year French                               1120         7824     8762880
5. 7th-year English                             750           7824     5868000
6. 8th-year physics                             650           7824     5085600
7. 8th-year natural science                     275           7824     2151600
8. 8th-year mathematics                         665           7824     5202960
9. 8th-year French                              955           7824     7471920
10. 8th-year English                            650           7824     5085600
11. 9th-year physics                            600           7824     4694400
12. 9th-year natural science                    250           7824     1956000
13. 9th-year mathematics                        615           7824     4811760
14. 9th-year French                             875           7824     6846000
15. 9th-year English                            600           7824     4694400



61                                       Annex 6
Page aof9
B. SECONDARY EDUCATION
YEARILEVELITITLE                    ENROLLM   QUANTITIE  U.P.(FG) T.C. (FG)   T.C. (USD)
ENT         S
1996/1997
School textbooks
16. 10th-year physics                           550           7824     4303200
17. 1Oth-year natural science                   225           7824     1760400
18. 10th -year mathematics                      565           7824     4420560
19. 10th-year French                            850           7824     6650400
20. 10th-year English                            500          7824     3912000
Total teachers' books                            12500                 97800000    S100,000
Total secondary level books                     584950                 4576648800 S4,679,600
Delivery to the schools                         584950        200      116990000   S119,622
TOTAL   COST   OF   COLLEGE                                            4693638800  S4,799,222
BOOKS
IV. Community financing
DISTRIBUTION YEAR    QUANTITY                                REPLACEMENT
A PRIMARY EDUCATION                          96/97           97/98       98/99
1996/1997                      1172020       58601           93762       140642
1997/1998                      649288                        32464       51943
1998/1999                      540725                                    27036
TOTAL                          2362033       58601           126226      219622
ESTIMATED UNIT PRICE                         2500            2500        2500
TOTA.L COST                                   146502500      315565000  549054225  $561,405



62                                    Annex 6
Page 9of 9
B. SECONDARY               QUANTITY        MAINTENANCE OF BOOK-PUPIL RATIO
EDUCATION
96/97       97/98         98/99
1996/1997                  572450        28623        57245         85868
ESTUMvATED UNIT PRICE                     7824        7824          7824
TOTAL    MAINTENANCE                      223942440   447884880    671827320 $686,940
COST



63
Annex 7
Page I of 6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SMALL GRANTS STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAM
Background. The implementation of the PASE showed that for in-service education
programs to be successfully translated into changed teacher behavior, they must match the
felt needs of teachers. However, in Guinea, as in most countries, existing programs are
very top-down in nature, often based on abstract pedagogical constructs and rarely
ground-truthed. They are generally centrally managed and do not account for local
variations in teacher and student needs. The Small Grants Staff Development and School
Improvement Program designed under the current operation seeks to address this
weakness by supporting stakeholder involvement in designing and carrying out an
innovative program of in-service education based on needs expressed by teachers
themselves. This program builds on existing structures to introduce teaching innovations,
and would help transform the role of regional and prefectoral inspectors from one of
administrative support to one of instructional support and leadership.
1. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
Long-term Goals and Objectives. The long-term goal of the small grants program is
derived from Government's statement of education sector policy, i.e. to improve the
quality of teaching and learning in Guinean schools.  This program would be the
operational mechanism through which the school becomes the locus of change in the
education system. As such, the program is seen, not as a permanent feature of the
educational scene in Guinea, but as a key transitional program over a five-year period,
starting to redefine the role of teacher, principal, pedagogic advisor, and inspector. It
would have the following long-term objectives: to help teachers focus on improving
subject matter teaching; to help teachers improve their own knowledge base and teaching
ability; to introduce promising new approaches to teaching into the educational system; to
explore promising approaches to teaching in resource-poor environments; to promote
communication about promising approaches to teaching among all stakeholders; and to
promote girls' education.
Medium-term Goals and Objectives. The principal medium-term goals of the small
grants programs are to operationalize the Government's commitment to bringing about
school-based change within Guinean primary schools and to pass the message of the need
for qualitative change in teaching to all stakeholders. The medium-term objectives are the
following: help school personnel develop project proposals based on local school needs;
train inspectors and pedagogic advisors to provide instructional support to teachers and
school directors; develop a capacity for formative evaluation of initiatives capacity for
formative evaluation of initiatives capacity for formative evaluation of initiatives the
program; and ensure financial responsibility in the use of funds.



64
Annex 7
Page 2 of 6
II. IMPLEMENTATION
* Preparation of Proposals. As per the philosophy underlying the Government's
overall program, the teachers will prepare proposals for funding. They will form small
units for this purpose, either formed of teachers from a single school or from a group
of schools. These units can include parents or other community members involved in
the school. The units will be known as CREs (Cellules de renovation educative).
After identifying the key problem or problems their group wishes to address, the
members of a unit will submit a written prospectus to a prefectoral jury for pre-
selection. A guide to preparing prospectuses has already been prepared. Those
prospectuses selected by the prefectoral jury will be developed into full grant
proposals, with help from inspectors, pedagogic advisors, and normal school
professors who will have been trained for this purpose; these proposals will be
submitted to a regional jury for final selection.
* Selection of Proposals. The pre-selection at the prefectoral level, and the final
selection at the regional level will be based on the following criteria; evaluation
procedures and criteria are specified in the operational guidelines.
O  Educational Value of the Proposed Project
*        significance of the problems addressed by the proposal,
*        potential contribution to improving teaching and learning at the school(s) in
question,
*        probability of success in addressing identified problems,
*        sustainability of the approach beyond the end of the grant period,
*        potential for generalization of the approaches proposed,
*        potential benefit for target groups, especially the poor, rural students, and
girls.
0  Feasibility of the Proposed Project
*        fit between activities proposed, time available, and resources available
0  Capacities and Potential of Unit Members
*        prior capacities/accomplishments demonstrated by unit members
*        indications of commitment of unit members to the project
*        indications of community support for the project



65
Annex 7
Page 3 of 6
Prefectoral jury members will read individual proposals and assign a score based on the
agreed criteria. The jury will then meet with representatives of the units, and will ask
questions for clarification as appropriate. The jury members will then deliberate and
prepare a final listing of the projects in order of scores assigned. Regional jury members
will work in similar fashion, except that representatives will not be able to make individual
presentations.
Facilitators. Immediately after the prefectoral pre-selection process, a facilitator will be
assigned to each unit chosen. The facilitators will be chosen from among the personnel of
the pre- and in-service education centers, the prefectoral education offices, and the
pedagogic advisors. They will be chosen based on experience and competence and will
initially make one visit each two weeks to the chosen school unit. Their first task will be
to help the unit develop its final proposal for the regional jury. For units surviving the
final selection process, the facilitators will visit schools twice a month for the first three
months and once a month thereafter. The facilitators will help CRE members become
reflective practitioners, and will lead them in appraising their own teaching practices and in
developing their potential for improvement. They will also provide a link with extemal
resource personnel as needed.
Evaluators. An evaluator will be assigned to each CRE after the final selection has been
completed and will be responsible for the formative evaluation of each initiative and will
be chosen from among the prefectoral directors of education, the personnel of the regional
inspectorate, the teachers at the teacher education institutes and the pedagogic advisors.
The evaluators will visit each CRE once a quarter to assess progress and will provide
advice to ensure that the project remains consistent with its objectives.
Training Programs. Training of evaluators and facilitators will be provided through
resource persons such as the directors of prefectoral education, the regional in-service
education coordinators or other resource persons available within a prefecture or region.
A national training group will be named by the ministry. The members of this group will
work with international consultants to develop the seminars and workshops for the
training of facilitators and evaluators and will serve as a backup throughout the project
life. Further short-term technical assistance will be provided through the national training
group in launch workshops at the beginning of each year for facilitators and CRE
representatives and in monthly meetings for facilitators. The training programs are
described in the operational guidelines.



66
Annex 7
Page 4 of 6
Renewal of Funding. Proposals will cover a one-year period. The best initiatives can be
renewed for a second year, and in exceptional cases, a third year, upon recommendation of
the regional jury. Where an individual CRE is unable to complete its proposal within a
given year, the regional jury will decide whether to provide extra time for project
completion, with no additional funding.
First Phase of In-service Education.   This program  is a key element of the
Government's strategy for renewing in-service education over the project lifespan. The
improvement of teaching and learning sought under the Equity and School Improvement
Sector Investment Project must necessarily involve problem-solving based on the
pedagogic and institutional issues identified at the school level by those most directly
involved in the development of the education system--the classroom teachers. Reaching
this objective means that all stakeholders, at all levels, must fully understand the small
grants program--its philosophy, approaches to supervision, evaluation, etc. For this
purpose, the first phase of in-service education supported under this component will be a
series of seminars and workshops to include national, regional, and prefectoral officials.
The National Pedagogic Institute (INRAP), the Statistical Service (SSP), the Financial
Affairs Directorate (DAAF), the Elementary Education Directorate (DNEE) and the
Inspectorate-General (IGE) will participate in initial planning and training activities in
order to harmonize the role of each of these entities in this program. The agenda will
include the following points: information-discussion about the small grants program,
agreements concerning the specific role of each entity in implementing and sustaining the
program.
*  Regional Level. The Elementary Education Directorate (DNFE) will organize two-
day sessions bringing together the personnel from the regional and prefectoral
education offices. This session will present both the program philosophy and the
supervision, evaluation and support roles envisaged. The final version of the
operational guidelines, the proposal guides, the official texts, etc., will be distributed at
this seminar.
*  Prefectoral Level. Prefectoral-level meetings, organized by the IRE and the DNEE,
will bring together the prefectoral personnel and all of the sub-prefectoral education
officials. These individuals in turn will meet with all school directors and teachers in
the prefecture. This series of workshops will deal with the program's philosophy of
qualitative change in teaching and learning, its focus on equity concerns, and the
mechanics of preparing proposals and applying for funding, etc.



67
Annex 7
Page 5 of 6
Reports. Juries will prepare reports of their activities and decisions. Monthly summaries
of activities and expenses will be provided by the CRE to the facilitators, who will pass
them on to the DPE for transmission to the regional level. An end-of-year report will be
prepared by the CRE as per the criteria and issues outlined in the operational guidelines
including a brief personal reflection by each teacher on group dynamics, what has been
learned by participants, students, directors, etc., as a result of the project. The regional
coordinator will prepare monthly memos on project support; the evaluators will prepare
quarterly reports on the progress achieved by each school unit. These will indicate the
problems emerging in each unit in the course of implementation and the steps taken to
address these problems. They will show the extent to which project objectives are being
reached and draw lessons for activities of the following year. Finally, an annual report will
be prepared by the small grants coordinator and submitted to the Steering Committee and
to the World Bank providing an overall synopsis of the functioning of this component.
Managing the Process of Dissemination and Change. In order to ensure that the
lessons learned at the school level serve as a stimulus for the process of change in the
country, regional seminars will be held each summer.  They will bring together
representatives of all CREs funded during the previous year, as well as the other personnel
associated with the program (including representatives of newly funded CREs). The
format will be that of a professional conference followed by a plenary session. CREs will
be grouped according to the themes they have dealt with; each group will discuss the
generalizability of the results obtained. A national seminar will follow the regional
seminars each year (except the first year, when only one region is involved). Members of
CREs whose results are judged particularly pertinent for other prefectures or regions
would prepare presentations to be integrated into curriculum, teaching practices, and in-
service education programs in these areas. Where appropriate, outside funding would be
sought for innovative groups to present their findings at professional conferences outside
the country.
Administrative Structures. A five-person technical committee will oversee the small
grants program. Its chair will be the program coordinator, selected among the personnel of
the DNEE. The other four individuals will be chosen among existing personnel of the
DAAF, the IGE, the INRAP and the SSP. Specific responsibilities are given in the
operational guidelines. Five-person technical committees will also be established at the
regional level, comprising the regional inspector (chair), the director of the teachers'
training institute, the regional financial officer for education (SAAF), the regional statistics
director and the regional small grants coordinator.



68
Annex 7
Page 6 of 6
Financial Arrangements. To disburse and account for the funds allocated to the small
grants program, various procedures have been proposed and continue to be discussed to
determine which offers the best assurance of efficiency and security of funds. A special
sub-account for the Guinea Equity and School Improvement Program will be established
and managed by the DAAF. Each of the regional SAAFs will be authorized to write
checks against this subaccount up to the budgeted amount for a particular accounting
period, both for the grants and for the necessary support activities (training, technical
assistance, etc.). The size of the grants will be small, averaging $750. A check will be
written by the SAAF to the treasurer of the CRE for each of three tranches. The second
and third tranche will be paid only upon presentation of satisfactory receipts accounting
for expenditures under the preceding tranche. The treasurer of each CRE will be
responsible for the funds. It is anticipated that in most cases, supplies and materials will
be purchased almost immediately upon receipt of funds. Where possible, remaining funds
will be kept at the nearest credit union (credit mutueo.



69
Annex 8
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
NUTRITION AND HEALTH COMPONENT
Students' Capacity and Motivation to Learn
1.    Students' capacity and motivation to learn is determined by the quality of the home
and school environments, health and nutrition status, and prior learning experiences,
including the level of parental stimulation. The principal source of children's capacity and
motivation to learn is the family, through genetic endowment and the direct provision of
nutrients, health care and stimulus. For children whose families are unable to provide
necessary inputs, substitutions can be provided by early childhood development programs
and school nutrition and health programs. Programs which focus attention on the
physical, cognitive and emotional development of young children improve their subsequent
performance in school. Likewise, addressing malnutrition and poor health at primary
school age can help children perform better and attend more regularly.
2.    Temporary hunger, chronic undernutrition, micronutrient deficiencies, parasitic
infections and vision and hearing impairments all serve to reduce a child's ability to achieve
in school. It was once thought that there was a vulnerable period in early childhood in
which poor nutrition and health would have permanent effects on children's learning
capacity. This is now known to be untrue, however, except for severe health and nutrition
deficiencies which inflict gross changes in the brain or irreversible physical damage. Most
children with a history of malnutrition and poor health, it is now known, are capable of
successful school performance, if they are compensated for their deficiencies.
Nutrition and Health Programs for School-Age Children
3.     For many of the poor nutrition and health conditions affecting school-aged
children, there are effective, safe and relatively inexpensive interventions. Mass delivery
of deworming drugs through schools and school-based vitamin A, iron and iodine
supplementation are some of the most cost-effective approaches to improving children's
readiness to learn via improved nutrition and health. Remedies are inexpensive and
providers do not require medical training. Such efforts at raising the nutrition and health
status of school children enhance other actions to improve primary education. They
improve the performance of children at school, and later as adults in the workforce.
4.    The benefit of nutrition and health improvements may be greater for girls than boys
and thus help to close the gender gap in education. Girls tend to suffer disproportionately
from some micronutrient deficiencies relative to boys. Interventions to improve nutrition
and health might also serve as incentives for enrolling both girls and boys in school.
Introducing nutrition and health interventions through schools also can correct health and
nutrition problems of public health significance in the community.



70
Annex 8
Page 2 of 7
Nutrition and Health Status of School-Age Children in Guinea
5.    Visits to schools in Guinea and information from key informants indicate that
school-age children in Guinea suffer from conditions similar to those affecting school-age
children throughout the region. Primary among these are: parasitic infection, anemia,
iodine deficiency, vitamin A deficiency in parts of the country, malaria, and hunger. Other
chronic problems are scabies, diarrhea and respiratory infections. Specific data on
malnutrition in children under the age of five suggests the magnitude of the nutrition
problem for early primary school-age children. As much as 44% of children under five in
Upper Guinea suffer from chronic malnutrition, and from 18 to 40% in the other regions
of the country. Extremely low levels of adequate sanitation and hygiene -- many schools
do not have latrines or easy access to water -- increases the exposure of school children to
infectious diseases. The improvement of sanitary facilities in the primary schools is being
addressed through the construction and rehabilitation component of the Guinea Equity and
School Improvement Project.
6.    Parasitic Infections. Intestinal helminthiasis is a major problem for school-age
children in Guinea. For children over five years of age, it is the second most common
reason for hospital admissions after malaria. Ascaris (roundworm), A. duodenale and N.
americanus (hookworm) and Trichuris (whipworm) are highly prevalent helminthic
parasites that are also amenable to highly efficacious and safe chemotherapy.
Schistosomes are also a substantial problem. Children infected with these parasites are at
higher risk for undernutrition since they eat less and lose more nutrients than uninfected
children. These infections also independently contribute to poor school performance by
diminishing a child's ability to pay attention and concentrate. Children heavily infected
with parasites are also frequently absent from school.  A national parasite survey is
underway to provide specific information on the species of helminths and their prevalence
in various regions of the country.
7.    Iodine Deficiency. Surveys conducted over the past several years, some still in
draft form, and all including school-age children in their samples, indicate that iodine
deficiency is a serious problem in the country. The results show rates from 40% in Lower
Guinea to more than 70% in the other three regions of the country, indicating that all
regions are affected. Under the World Bank-assisted Health and Nutrition Project, the
provision of iodine supplements is being supported in Middle Guinea and selected areas of
Lower Guinea. UNICEF is also engaged in addressing the iodine deficiency problem
through the iodization of salt. It is expected that the entire country should have access to
iodized salt -- the medium- to long-term solution to iodine deficiency -- in about four
years. In the short run, iodine supplementation will need to be continued and expanded.
8.    The consequences of iodine deficiency can be most severe, and irreversible when
experienced in utero, causing, for example, mental retardation and deafness. However,
combating this deficiency, when it continues to exist in children, is important. There is
evidence of growth retardation and higher rates of morbidity in children with iodine
deficiency. School-age children deficient in iodine perform worse on intelligence and
other tests of learning capacity than iodine-replete children. Even sub-clinical deficiencies,



71
Annex 8
Page 3 of 7
recently, have been associated with lower scores on tests of non-verbal intelligence.
Iodine deficiency is also linked to impaired hearing in school-age children.
Nutrition and Health Component
9.    To begin to address some of these high priority problems among school-age
children, the Equity and School Improvement project will support school and nutrition
interventions that will complement other measures aimed at increasing access to school
and improving the quality of education. The interventions will be relatively simple and
within the capacity of the school staff (with some in-service training), and utilize the
prefectoral and sub-prefectoral level health and education infrastructure for
implementation. The component will: (a) implement, on a trial basis, a package of school
nutrition and health interventions including, the mass treatment of parasitic infections,
iodine and iron supplementation and health education; (Based on the results of the trial,
the package of interventions will be expanded throughout the country.); (b) reinforce
health education at primary schools through IEC; (c) undertake studies to set the stage for
addressing other school nutrition and health problems through parallel programming and
future operations; and(d) strengthen the capacity of the Department of School Health and
effectively link the provision of school health services with the provision of other health
services in the community.
Detailed Project Description
Objectives
10.   The overall goal of the component is to improve the nutrition and health of
primary school-age children. These improvements are intended to contribute to increasing
learning capacity, and thereby improve education effectiveness and efficiency. More
specifically, the component is designed to: (a) decrease the overall prevalence of parasitic
infection in school children, and in the entire community, served by the school-based
program; (b) decrease the prevalence of iodine deficiency in all target groups in
communities served by the program; and (c) improve iron status of children both through
reducing parasitic infection and iron supplementation.
Interventions
11.   The school nutrition and health component will include deworming and iodine and
iron supplementation as the principal interventions for primary school-age children. The
interventions will be tried in "trial run" areas, and if found to be effective at improving
child nutrition and health, and operationally feasible, the package will be extended to other
schools in the country. Other problems -- including for example, hunger, malaria, first aid
and primary health care needs -- will initially be examined through studies. If possible,
some of these problems will be addressed in future operations, or more immediately
through parallel programs.



72
Annex 8
Page 4 of 7
12.   Deworming. Children will be treated with either Mebendazole or Albendazole
(the choice of drug will be determined based on price estimated at US$0.20 to US$0.30
per dose), availability, and the prevalence of hookworm; Albendazole is more effective
against hookworm than Mebendazole. Also important to weigh in the selection is whether
Mebendazole is to be used as a one-day treatment (500 mg). Recently it has been found
to be effective as such, as opposed to the more common three-day dosage. Children will
be treated once per year in order to control, not eradicate infections. Treatment will be
provided at schools. The need to also treat children in certain areas with Praziquantel
(required once every several years) will be examined in the national parasite prevalence
survey currently underway.
13.   Drugs will be procured through the Central Pharmacy and delivered to health
centers in each sub-prefecture along with the routine delivery of essential drugs. The
deworming drugs will be held as separate stock at the health centers. The school and the
parents' associations (APE) will have joint responsibility for picking up the medicine at the
centers.  Most of the centers are within a bicycle ride of the school.  A simple
contract/letter of agreement will be drawn up and signed by the teacher-parent
associations to verify the medical supplies to be provided, and their use. A drug tracking
system will be devised by the school health department to account for all medicines
provided through the program. A health agent from the health center or health post will
distribute deworming drugs and iodine capsules once a year.
14.   Iodine Supplementation. Iodine capsules will be provided through schools in the
same manner as the deworming medicines. Estimated cost is US$ 0.22 per dose.
Children will be treated once per year at schools. The iodine will be procured and
delivered to schools through the same mechanism described above. The selection of
schools for iodine supplementation will be carefully coordinated with the other iodine
supplementation programs on-going in the country, and in accordance with the prevalence
of deficiency as determined by readily available surveys.
15.   Iron Supplementation. Iron capsules will be provided to children once per week
during the school year. This regimen will be monitored to see if it is possible to shorten
the duration of the treatment. The same delivery system will be used for the iron as for
the anthelminthics and the iodine. Teaching staff, or one or two designated teachers will
distribute the iron capsules.
16.   Information, Education, Communication (IEC). The package of interventions
will be accompanied by IEC to promote participation in the program, and to change
specific behaviors contributing to parasitic infection and iron deficiency. In the case of
parasitic infections the focus would be on the use of latrines, where they are available, and
other realistic health practices. Improving iron deficiency through education would
concentrate on practical dietary changes to enhance the consumption of iron. The
educational program will be developed based on qualitative research (focus group
discussion, key informant interviews), and utilize social marketing techniques for the
developing, testing and producing effective messages and materials. The relationship



73
Annex 8
Page 5 of 7
developed with the communities during the implementation of the package of
interventions will facilitate this effort. Radio is extremely popular in the rural areas; the
potential to use this medium for education will be explored.
17.   Studies. Several potentially important school nutrition and health problems will be
investigated under the component. No specific interventions to address these problems
will be supported by the component, in order to keep the initial school nutrition and health
effort manageable and relatively low cost.  Based on the results of the studies,
interventions will be proposed for future operations or funded through other more
immediate sources, if possible. Areas for study include: (a) vitamin A deficiency in
school-aged children; (b) the prevalence of hunger in the school-age population, and
identification of possible mechanisms for alleviating this problem at schools (e.g., school
meals, improving the quality of food sold by vendors at schools, education program to
encourage feeding before school); and (c)the need, and feasibility of providing schools
with medicine chests. Such chests could include treatments for wounds, diarrhea, malaria,
scabies, etc.
Trial Run
18.   Implementation of the school nutrition and health intervention package detailed
above will begin with a "trial run". A "trial run" is not a pilot project, but rather a trying
out of the administrative and operational procedures for delivering the interventions. The
"trial run" will be implemented in six zones: one sub-prefecture in each natural region of
the country, Haute Guinea, Moyenne Guinea, Guinea Maritime, and Forest Guinea, as
well as in one urban zone outside Conakry and one in the periphery of Conakry. Ten
schools with approximately 150 children each in each zone will be selected to participate
in the "trial run". Additional children will be included in the trial run through outreach
efforts (see below). Criteria for selection will include: prevalence of parasitic infection and
strong support from the community for the interventions, and demonstrated interest and
capacity of the health and education staff at the prefecture and sub-prefecture level.
Ditinn sub-prefecture in Dalaba province, Tugnifilly sub-prefecture in Boffa province, and
Boffa Centre, an urban zone in Boffa province outside Conakry have already expressed
interest in participating in the "trial run".
19.   The "trial run" will last approximately one year. It will entail the following stages:
(a) discussion and planning with health and education personnel at the prefecture and sub-
prefecture level; (b) discussion and sensitization of the community served by the school
leading to signing a simple contract with the APE; (c) collection of baseline data on
parasitic infections, iodine deficiency, iron deficiency, and nutrition status (height and
weight); (d) development of a procurement, monitoring and control system for the drugs;
(e) development and implementation of a short in-service training program for health
agents, teachers, and others to be involved in the delivery of the interventions (training will
include the initial education measures to be included in the trial-run of the intervention); (f)
implementation and monitoring; (g) evaluation and recommendations for program changes



74
Annex 8
Page 6 of 7
as required. The mid-term evaluation will assess the impact on nutrition and health, and
also assess the operational aspects of the program.
Outreach
20.   Although the objective of the school nutrition and health component is to improve
student learning capacity by improving the nutrition and health of school children, the trial
phase will determine the need, feasibility, and effectiveness of reaching school-age children
who are not enrolled in school, as well as younger children, with these services. This is
most critical for iodine supplementation, if not provided through other programs since the
most serious consequences of deficiency occur in utero. Coverage also is important in
the mass treatment of parasitic infection. Low coverage translates into a need for more
frequent treatment since prevalence and intensity remain high and re-infection occurs more
rapidly.
21.   Health agents have a program for outreach to the community which has been used
for the vaccination program and delivery of prenatal care. Often the school has been the
point of delivery for these services.  Outreach for the school nutrition and health
interventions will build on this on-going program.
Expansion and Sustainability
22.   The package of interventions will be expanded to other communities/schools sub-
prefecture by sub-prefecture based on the results of the trial program. The expansion will
be gradual. Communities will be selected according to the same criteria used for the trial
program. If the trial run is successful both in effectively delivering the interventions and
improving the nutrition and health status of the target group, other funding will be sought
to finance the expansion of the component.
23.   The nutrition and health interventions should be sustainable where necessary
through a combination of changes in practices (through education) and direct community
support. Iodine supplementation is an interim measure which can be discontinued once
the iodization of salt is accomplished. Iron supplementation may also become unnecessary
in the long run if dietary practices are improved through education. In the medium term, if
donor funding becomes unavailable, the community can assist in supporting the iron and
deworming program. Initial visits and discussions with APEs confirmed their willingness
to make a financial contribution.
Institutional Strengthening
24.   The Department of School Health under the Ministry of Public Health and Social
Affairs is responsible for developing and implementing all nutrition and health programs
and policies for school children.  Unlike many other countries where intersectoral
collaboration at the central level is extremely difficult, preventing the implementation of
intersectoral programs, the link between health and education is very strong at all levels in



75
Annex 8
Page 7 of 7
Guinea. At the Central level the school health department is managed by the Ministry of
Public Health and Social Affairs, yet it effectively functions within the infrastructure of the
Ministry of Pre-University Education and Vocational Training. Leadership in both of the
ministries is strong, and supportive of the initiative to improve school nutrition and health.
Under the current reform of the Health Sector, the School Health Department will shortly
become a more autonomous unit. Along with this new status will come additional
personnel and a larger budget.
25.   To contribute to strengthening the Department of School Health, the project will
provide: equipment and office supplies, transportation and operational support, training,
and technical assistance.  Technical assistance will be needed in: management and
logistics, IEC (information, education, communication), micronutrients and parasites,
training and evaluation.
26.   Implementation will be decentralized. The sub-prefecture will play the key role in
the operation of the program, supervised by the prefecture level. Health and Education
agents exist at both the sub-prefecture and the prefecture levels, and collaborate well
together. Jointly they will visit communities and discuss school health issues and the
program. Specific responsibilities at the sub-prefecture level will include: sensitizing the
community, receiving medicines and supplies; delivering deworming drugs and iodine
supplements to children; training teachers in education/communication; monitoring
implementation of interventions at the schools; receiving and aggregating individual school
reports of program activities; assisting in implementing evaluations; and serving as the link
between the schools and the prefecture level of the program.
27.   The prefecture level and central Department of School Health will be responsible
for ensuring the effective delivery of the program (supervision) to the sub-prefectures, and
planning and implementing evaluations, studies, and training programs. The central
Department of School Health will also collaborate with other ministries and other donors
participating in related activities and establish and maintain national-level program data
and information.
28.   The APEs will be responsible for implementing the program at the schools. They
will pick up the medicines, assist in establishing a system for distribution at the school,
receive training, participate in any other activities related to the school nutrition and health
program, and provide all necessary feedback and information to the sub-prefecture health
and education agents.



CT1..XLS
Local
The Oovwnnat            IDA          COUMUNAUTES             TotRl                    IEacL.    DOu    a
Amounri    %      Amount      %      Amount i    %      Amount      %     FoP. ExcIL   Taxes)      Taxes
A. AMELUOER LACCES A L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE
Con6trudtion at rehiab on den bataiwsaccians                                      5,568.4    19:8   21,458.3    765    1,025.8     3.7   28,052.5    52.9    8,546.6   14,994.4    4,511.5
Erdietien de biimurta saWres                                                       138.8    10.7    1,163.0    89.3          -       -    1,301.8     2.5      417.8       745.1      138 6
Subtotal AMELIORER LACCESALEIN MNEMENTPRlUWRE                                       5,707.0    19.4   22.621.2    77.1   1,025.8     3.5   29.354.1    55.4    8.9644    15,738.5    4,650.1
S. AMEUORER L'EN3EIONEMENT ET LAPRENTISOIE
DaInbuwde manwieaola i  d de guim  peftopques                                     2,092.9    15.3   10,721.7    78.4     864.9     6.3   13,679.5    25.8   12,846.2       758.8       74.8
Proginrre de Puttea S  aNub M  decODt                                              280.0     9.0    2.8166    91.0           -       -    3,096.8     58       932.6    1,926.9      237.1
Rs _onui de W -pce crapputkaup des oWue                                             56.8     3.1    1,796.9    96.9                        1,853.5    3.5    1,146.6       648.3       564.
Subtoa AMELIORER LES EMMUMT  ET LAPPRENTlSAE                                        2,429.5    13.0   15,335.2    82.3     8649      4.6   18,629.6    35.1   14,927.3    3.333.8       368.5
C. RENfORCER LA eSTION DU SYSTlEM  EDUCATIF
Owotcppunuuadupmoaua detappwara_daaalIdva_                                          78.5     6.8    1,079.0    93.2                  -    1.157.5     2.2      410.8       668.2       78.5
Anwition dru saumaw de I cou nuunkion                                              220.1    23.4       719.0    76.6         -       -      939.1      1.8     676.1        42.9      220.1
Am.iortinde Ilsa OwdcdpnhbI dgx algfdn hw*oludu sod"                              147.4     9.0    1,497.7    91.0                        1,845.0    3.1      943.9      553.7       147.4
D        eokpp.mer du aedew pike                                                    26.7     3.0       921.3    97.0         -       -      950.0     1.8      475.3      446.0        28.7
Subtota RENFOCER LA GESTtON DU SYSTEMS  EDLCATI                                      474.7    10.1    4,217.0    89.9                  *    4,691.6     8.9    2.506.1    1.7108       474.7
D. REFINANCEME   D  LAVANCE                                                                              329.0   100.0         *       -      329.0     0.6       77.5      251.5
8,811.1    16.2   42,502.5    80.2   1,890.7     3.6   53,004.3   100.0   26,475.4   21,035.7    5,493.3
_1
0
Pn
P1        ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



CT2.XLS
REPUBLIQUE DE LA GUINEE
% % Totbl
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary                       (Local 0001                        (US$ 5000)             Foreign   Base
Local       Foreign      Total       Local     Foresin     Total   ExchanAe  Costa
1. Investment Costa
A. GENIE CML
CAnabudlon des scoles                           4.66a,309.6   4,004,910.0  8,673.279.6    4,773.4    4,095.0    8,e86.4   46      19
Reoaon de  ecoles                               3,844,854.4   2,689940.0  6,514,794.4    3,931.3    2.730.0    6,861.3    41      15
Fond durg                                       1,188,270.0          -   1181270.0    1,215.0                 1,215.0              3
Subttal GENIE CML                                 9,701.494.0   6,674.8500  16,376,344.0    9,919.7    6,825.0   16,744.7   41      37
B. BIENS
EquIpment                                        414,416.9    963,6662   1,378,053.2     423.7      985.3    1,409.1      70       3
Vehicle                                           126,922.5    95,7485     222,671.0     129.8       97.9      227.7      43       1
Furni                                           3978 7233.1          -   3 3.1          4   -24 062                                9
Subtotal BENS                                     4.516.062.5   1.059.414.8  5577.477.3    4,619.7    1,083.2    5,702.9   19      13
C. IMPRESSION DE MANUELS SCOLAIRES
TeAbok Producon - Pr   rySchoolLvl                       -   4.631.766.0  4.631.766.0        -    4,736.0    4,736.0     100      10
TeAbek Production - Seondy Level                         -    920311.3    920311.3           -    6053.          3.5     100      13
Subtotal ILPRESSION DE MANUELS SCOLAIRES                   -  10,562,079.3  10,5S2,079.3       -   10,789.4   10,780.4     100      24
D. MEDICAMENTS
ANTxELLROTHSAMCRONUTRIENTS                                   660,150.0    660,150.0         -      675.0      675.0     100       1
E. SERACES DE CONSULTANTS
Technical Assistane - hi tdon                     126,651.0  2,087.818.8   2214,469.8    129.5    2,134.8    2,264.3      94       5
Technica Assian- Non                            1,430,501.0          -   1,430,501.0   1,462.7          -    1462.7                3
Subtotl SERVICES DECONSULTANTS                    1,557,152.0   2.067.818.8  3.644.970.8    1,592.2    2,134.8    3,727.0   57       8
F. FORblATION
TrainIg Abroad                                           -    354,036.0    354.0             -      362.0      362.0     10        I
Loca Training and Semnai                        1,520.426.6    316,872.0  1,837.298.6    1,554.6    324.0    1,878.6      17       4
Subtotal FORMATION                                1,520.426.8    670,906.0  2.191,334.6.    1,554.6   686.0    2,240.6      31       5
G. PROGRAMME DE PETITES SUBVENTIONS EVECOLES    786,688.9    197,172 2       965,8612      806.4      201.6    1,006.0      20       2
H. REFINANCEMENT DE LAVANCE                        234,231.0     38,631.0    272.862.0     239.5       39.5      279.0      14       1
Total lnvestmentCosts                              18,320,055.0  21,941,024.0  40,261,079.1   18,732.2   22,434.6   41,166.7  54      90
11. Recurrent Costa
A. SALAIRES                                       1.075.545.7           -   1,075,545.7    1,099.7        -    1,099.7        -      2
B. ISTRIBtJTIONDEIAANUELSSCOLAIRES                  731,257.7                731,257.7     747.7          -      747.7        -      2
C. COUTS DE FONCTIONNEMENT
Otte Equlpnmnt Malnnce                            243,574.9    105,390.1    348,974.0    249.1      107.8      356.8      30       1
Vahicl MbItnnce ls                                 50,974.3    24,498.4     75,472.7      52.1       25.0       772       32
GwnraOpriingCosb                                1,116,976.8    189,622.5  1,306,599.3    1,142.1    193.9    1,336.0      15       3
MissIn and Fied Aowanc7252.8                                         -    725,264.8      741.6          -      741.6        -      2
Subtotal COUTS DE FONCTIONNEMENT               _2,136810,8    319,519.9   2,456330.8    2,184.9       326.7    2,511.6      13       6
Total Recurrent Cost                                3,943,614.2    319,519.9  4,263,134.2    4,032.3    326.7    4,359.0       7      10
Total BASEUNE COSTS                                22,263,669.3  22,260,544.0  44,524,213.2   22,764.5   22,761.3   45,525.8  50    100
Physical Contingeie                               1,395,669.1   1.969.443.0  3,365,112.1    1,427.1    2,013.7    3,440.8   59       8                                    > :
Price Cornng  s                                   2,285,928.6  1,662,923.9  3,948,.5    2337.4    1,7W.3    4,037.7         42       9                                QQ :3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                25,945,306.9  25,892,910.9  51,836,217.8   26,528.9   26,475.4   53,004.3  50      116                                M M
W hce
Page1                          /



C13.XLS
REPULBLIOU DE LA GUINEE
RENFORCEN LA OnT$ON  u SYST    EDUCATIF
ExpendItub  Accounts by Component - Tond. hIck_ng     AMEIORE  LACCES A   AUELIORER LTENS OEIG T ET                                              Aanslorilon
(USS 10)                                            LENSEUINEEINT PRIUIRE           LAPPRENTISS.AO                                                  de 
Dhn                                                                   Wr.
St       IEs       d mamsh  ft Prauw. nasommet ae Dmdopp_mut  AWAulovh  Ic
oshaMbilb'on    de      scoldu at   a pate        Isn apede    du pyoocs.sdo a    m syem.  hadgsauon  Dmeloppeamt
d. ltAl__  bI I   s   a guas   Subes.  depp-aeusmge  rhppredissage                  ab        at b cn we.l.   a sefcr      EIASCEMT
sc*inis    swcoaltes paIogn                       . cola   slows  des eiea C      _mke       du macble       pt        DE LAVANCE    Tob
L lawesbue  Cost
A. GENE CML
Camndbu    dee sods.                                10,788.0                     -                          -                            -              .             .              o1,7e80
RmnoaUlon due                                        0 6,122.4      -            -           -                                                                                           8 -  -  -  .    I.122.4
Fondt cfrwema                                        1.215.0        ------.-                                                                                                             121,50
SISeS 05ENN CVL                                       201254                                                  -- 201254
-                                                         -     2815             -       1706            22.9            85.0        703.3          324.1             -            -    1601.6
Ve e                                                                -            *       187.4           71.4               --                          -                                 2568
Fwur                                                 4794.1      134.5           -                          -            33.6            -           538              .            - 15Oio
Sub      ENS                                           4,794.1    430.0            -       358.2           94.            118.6        J03T           377.9            -                   6.8874
C E951MON D  MANUEL8 SCOLAMS
Taibock Pwdtuon - Ph wy Sdiod L                           -         -       5.6061           -              -               -            -              - I                        -    5.016.1
Taook Pmadon-"Se        yLas                              .         .       7,0786           -              -              -             -              -            .             -    1,0788
uti          So  DE MASUA  COA          E                   -         -      12                -              -               -            -              -                               12.688 
D. EDIC NTS
ANTIHELMNWTHSIMI(RONUTRIENTS                              -         -            -           -           784.2              -            -              -                          -      784.2
E. SERVICES DE CONSULTANTS
Techvuc Asiteance - lutemsimu                         431.9         -         16.3       378.5          352.0           224.4         1856          417.0        491.2          30.0    2,507.0
TschulAasuI nceS-bNlncl                              13705          -            -           -          258.8               *              _        110.8          23.8            *     17638       c
Sucbtei SERVICES DE CONSULTANTS                       'VO2            -         16.3       378S           610.8           224.4        165.8          S27           5150          3        4.2708
F. FORMATION
Trww  Abnd                                                '         *        1430                                        5 '  54.0       -          125.6          47.5         10.0      380.1
LocalTnwwig wendSeSmwrn                                23.6    621.6          85.7       7007            36.6           205.4            -          2688          166.4            -    21089
Subtotal FORMATION                                       23.6    621.6         2287        70.             366            259.3                       394.4         213.0         100      2,4890
C. PROGRAMME DE PETITES SUEVENTIONS IYECOLE                 -         -            -      1,006.0                             -                           -                                1,0D8.0
H. REFINANCEMENT DE LAVANCE                                             -          -                          -              -              -             -                      279.0      279.0
Tota hIwslmmt Cosds                                     26.745.8   1,051.8     12,931.8    2445.5                           602.3        869.1         1303.0        7290          319.0   46,519.8
11. Racuwe  Cosi
A. SALAIRES                                            1.056.9        .            *        42.0              -               -            -              -                   -            i.ooo.7
S. DISTRIBUTION DE MANlELS SCOLAIRES                        -         -        747.7           .              .                            -              -            .                    7477
C. COUTS DE FONCT_ON ION
aOth  Equpmed Mafweao                                     -      100.0           -        557             3.5            24.0         60.0          120.0                                 364.2
VeScbM ail       / l a                                              *                     62.9           200 o              -                                         -            -       82.9
Geons  Opsaig Codss                                   250.0        -            -       468.7          285.4           231.2         10.0          13.0           61.7         10.0    1,437.0
MmI   5nd Fidd Albnc                                            150.0                  -                 18 7           300 0            -          1250          15s 3                   753 0
Subtoni COUTS DE FONCTIONNEMENT                         2500      250.0            -                      327.6           555 2         700            345.0 o521                 100 o    337T 1
Totl Recunent Costs                                      1306.9     250.0        7477        651.1          327.6           5552          700           345.0         2210          10.0    4484.5
Toel PROJECT COSTS                                      28,052.5   1,301.6     13.679.5     3,             1,853.5         1,f7.$         93s1         1.U5.0         950.0         329.0   s3UW3-
Tam                                                    4,511.5    138.6         74.8       237.1           56              78.5        2201           147.4         287              -    5,493.3
FaWS Ep E,s4e 8.546                                               417.1      12.8462       9328          1,148.6          410.8        67.1           9439          4713          77.5   26,475.4
%a IncLudoe bad
P> s
00
0QIj
Page1                               /



CT4.XLS
REPUBLIQUE DE LA GUINEE
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Continge
(US$ '000)                                                            Totals Including Contingencies
ssl96      96197     97/98     9/8199    991/0      Total
1. Investment Costs
A. GENIE CIVIL
Construction des ecoles                            1,696.2    2,178.8   2,240.5   2,304.0   2,369.6   10,788.0
Renovation des ecoles                              1,531.0    1,576.2   1,623.0   1,671.2   1,721.0    8,122.4
Fond crurgence                                      243.0      243.0     243.0     243.0     243.0     1 215.0
Subtotal GENIE CIVIL                                 3,469.1    3,998.0   4,106.4   4,218.3   4,333.6   20,125.4
B. BIENS
Equpenert                                          1,601.6                   -         -         -    1,601.6
Vehiest                                             258.8          -         -         -         -      258.8
Furniture                                          2,138.2     677.7     704.8     733.0     762.3    5,016.0
Subtotal BIENS                                       3,998,5     677.7     704.8     733.0     762.3    6,876.4
C. IMPRESSION DE MANUELS SCOLAIRES
Textbook Production - Prinary School Level              -    2,309.0   1,592.2   1,706.9         -    5,608.1
Textbook Producton - Secondary Level                    -    5,701.7     543.7     833.4         -    7,078.8
Subtotal IMPRESSION DE MANUELS SCOLAIRES                  -    8,010.6   2,135.9   2,540.4         -   12,686.9
D. MEDICAMENTS
ANTIHELMINTHSIMICRONUTRIENTS                        255.7      261.4     267.1         -         -      784.2
E. SERVICES DE CONSULTANTS
Technical Assistance - IntwrnaIal                   865.7      576.3     518.9      269.6    256.5    2,507.0
Technal Asistae - Natbonal                          319.2      486.1     308.7     318.5     331.3    1,763.8
Subtotal SERVICES DE CONSULTANTS                     1,184.9    1,062.4    827.6     608.1     587.8    4,270.8
F. FORMATION
Training Abroad                                     220.1      102.8      34.9       11.0     11.3      380.1
Local Training and Seminas                          635.0      281.7     434.0    365.8      392.3    2,108.9
Subtotal FORMATION                                    855.1      384.5     469.0     376.8     403.6    2,489.0
G. PROGRAMME DE PETITES SUBVENTIONS D'ECOLES           16.5       74.5     203.3     305.3     408.4    1,008.0
H. REFINANCEMENT DE L'AVANCE                          279.0          -         -         -                279.0
Total lnvestrent Costs                                10,058.9   14,469.2   8,714.1   8,781.9   6,495.7   48,519.8
II. Recurrent Costs
A. SALAIRES                                             8.6        8.6     211.8     415.1     455.7    1,099.7
B. DISTRIBUTION DE MANUELS SCOLAIRES                      -      444.8     165.4     137.6         -      747.7
C. COUTS DE FONCTIONNEMENT
Othtr Equipment Maintenarnce                        115.4       61.7      62.0      62.4      62.7      364.2
Vehicle Maintenance /a                               16.0       16.3      16.6       16.9     17.2       82.9
General Operating Costs                             324.4      367.2     298.7     245.4     201.3    1,437.0
Mission and Field Allowances                        152.4      159.6     153.1     143.6    144.3       753.0                                            >  
Subtotal COUTS DE FONCTIONNEMENT                      608.2      604.8     530.4     468.2     425.5    2,637.1                                           OQ 
Total Recurrent Costs                                   616.8    1,058.1     907.6   1,020.8     881.2    4,484.5                                              x
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   10,675.7   15,527.3   9,621.7   9,802.7   7,376.9   53,004.3                                           41
0
ta Includes fuel
Page 1



80
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT MONITORING AND SUPERVISION PLAN
1.   IDA Supervision Input. Regular supervision needs are described in Table 1 of this
Annex. In addition, specific tasks such as review of progress reports, terms of reference, annual
plans, audits, and procurement and disbursement actions, are estimated to require 8 staff weeks of
various specialist inputs a year which are not included in Table 1.
2.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision. The monitoring and evaluation of project
progress and outcomes will be integrated with the monitoring system established in the M:EPUFP
for the reform program, with the overall responsibility assigned to the Steering Committee.
(a)   Progress Reports will be submitted twice a year, in January and July. They will include a
summary of implementation under each project component, financial statements on project
expenditures, updated project implementation and procurement schedules, as well as the
status of contract advertising, bidding, awards and completion dates and compliance with
aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement. The Steering Committee, in
collaboration with the DAAF, will collect inputs from each responsible MEPUFP
directorate and prepare the reports.
(b)  Joint Annual Reviews. Once a year, around November, the Steering Committee will
organize a joint IDA/Government review of project implementation based on the progress
report in the above paragraph which, for the purposes of the annual review, will also
include: (a) an annual work program and budget for the next academic year; (b) a draft
budget for the overall education sector for the next year; and (c) the status of policy and
project monitoring indicators as listed in Annex 5.
(c)   Mid-Terrn Review. The Steering Committee, together with the DAAF, wiU carry out not
later than 30 months after credit effectiveness, a mid-term review of the progress made in
carrying out the project. They will cover all aspects of the project, with a special focus
on: (a) MEPUFP's functioning; (b) progress in implementing policy measures and their
impact on staffing, cost and efficiency of the system, and the increase in girls'
participation; (c) progress with the recruitment of teaching staff, (d) implementation of
small-grants initiative; (e) progress of school construction and rehabilitation program; (f)
progress in identifying reforms initiatives in support of private schooling at the primary
level; (g) progress in the evaluation of future VET prograrn; (h) progress in implementing
the health program and its impact on student learning outcomes; and (i) findings of the
beneficiary assessment. The mid-term review will also be conducted with other donors
affiliated with the project (e.g., USAID, France, FED) and will review progress in the
implementation of their programs.
(d)  The Steering Committee will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA
supervision missions and participating in the missions with them.
(e)  Implementation Completion Report. Within six months of the Credit closing date, a
completion report, prepared in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA,
will be transmitted to IDA.



81
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Table 1: IDA SUPERVISION PLAN
PROJECT       Project Launch Workshop       Civil Works/Implementation                       2
Year I                                    Education                                         2
Project Management                               2
Textbooks                                        2
Telecommunications                               2
Resident Mission                                 2
Health                                           2
Supervision Mission
Education                                        2
Project Management                               2
Implementation                                   2
Resident Mission                                 2
PROJECT       I t Joint Annual Review       Civil Works/Implementation                       2
Year 2                                    Education                                         2
Project Management                               2
Health                                           2
Textbooks                                        2
Resident Mission
Supervision Mission                                                            2
Civil Works/liplementation                       2
Education                                        2
Project Management                               2
Vocational Training                              2
Resident Mission                                 2
PROJECT       2nd Join Annual Review        Civil Works/Implementation                       2
Year 3                                    Education                                         2
Project Management                               2
Resident Mission                                 2
Mid-Tenn Review
Civil Works/Implementation                       2
Educadion                                        2
Health Specialist                                2
Project Management                               2
Textbook                                         2
Resident Mission                                 2
PROJECT       3rd Joint Annual Review       Civil Works/lmplementation                       2
Year 4                                    Education                                         2
Health                                           2
Project Management                               2
Resident Mission                                 2
Supervision Mission
Civil WorksImplementation                        2
Education                                        2
Project Management                               2
Resident Mission                                 2
4th Joint Annual Review      Civil Works/lmplementation                        2
Education                                        2
Project Management                               2
Health                                           2
Resident Mission                                 2
Supervision Mision
I (Completion Mission)         To be determined



82
Annex 1 1
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Calendar of Activities
(...=Preparation, design, bidding/selection, etc.; x=planned period of implementation)
Project Year
Pre-
Project Element                       Project     1       2        3        4         5
L INCREASE PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT AND
COMPLETION RATES
A. Construction and Rehabilitation of 1800 Classrooms
* development of construction and rehabilitation program     ..... ...
* development of construction norms                           ..... ...
* production of standard documentation on propositions for   ..... ...
school infrastructure
* Rehabilitation/construction of 1800 classrooms            ......... x x x x   x x x  x   x x x x   xxxx   xxxx
* Contract management of works to NGOs                             x
* Training, including seminars for school rehabilitation             x        x        x        x        x
* Carry-out semi-annual audits                                       x        x        x        x        x
* Execution of emergency rehabilitation fund program       ......... x x x x   xxxx   x x x x   xxxx   xxxx
* Recruitment of primary school teachers                                             X.X.X.X  X.X.X.X  X.X.X.X
B. Strengthen Management Capacity of Communities and
SNIES
* training                                                            x       x        x        x         x
* carry-out field supervisions
* definition of new roles/responsibilities of personnel to be  ..... ....
involved in construction and maintenance program
IL IMPROVE TEACHING AND STUDENT LEARNING
A. Provide Textbooks at Primary and Secondary School levels
* prepare bid documents for textbook procurement             ......
* develop operational guidelines for textbook replenishment  .......
* procure textbooks for primary & secondary schools                         .......x   x        x         x
* procure teachers' guides for primary & secondary schools                 .......x    x        x         x
* distribute textbooks for primary & secondary schools                        ..x     ..x      ..x       ..x
* distribute teachers' guides for primary & secondary schools                 ..x     ..x      ..x       ..x
* training                                                                    x        x        x         x



83
Annex 1 1
Page 2 of 10
Project Year
Pre-
Project Element                      Proiect     1        2        3        4        5
m IMPROVE TEACHING AND STUDENT LEARNING
B. Support Primary School-based Innovations
* define priority needs and criteria for selection
* develop procedures and guidelines for monitoring,       ..........x
implementation and evaluation of school-level grants
* appoint small grants program coordinators                   ..x
* small grants program                                            X.X.XX   X.X.X.X  X.X.X.X  X.X.X.X  X.X.X.X
- pilot region                                                         X.X.X.X  Xx.x.XX   X.X.X.X  X.X.X.X
- 3 additional regions                                                          X.X.XX   X.X..X  X.X.X.X
- remaining regions
* evaluate small grants program                                         x        x        x        x       x
* training                                                  .... xx   x    x        x        x        x
* carry out audits                                                x        x        x        x        x
C. Improve Student Learning Ccapacity
* Equip Department of school health                               x
* Parasite and micronutrient deficiency prevalence study          x
* Pilot project planning and evaluation                              x     x
* Program sensitization                                              x
* Training                                                           x        x     x
* Purchase and distribution of micronutrients and antihelminths      x        x     x
* Studies                                                                     x
mII STRENGTHEN EDUCATION SYSTEM
MANAGEMENT
A. Monitor Student Learning Outcomes
* develop and print six curriculum-based tests for student  ......   x        x
learning
* establish test item bank                                           x
* execute pilot applications of each test                           x x               x x               x x
* develop and implement two testing cycles for each of six tests    xx                xx                xx
* training                                                           xx      xx       xx       xx       xx
B. Improve Communications System
* carry out feasibility study of Internet system           ......x
* establish Internet system in central and eight regional offices  .......    x
* establish radio communications in all DPEs                         x
* provide cellular telephones for education offices and services     x
within Conakry



84
Annex 1 1
Page 3 of 10
Project Year
.                             ~~~~~~~~~~Pre-
Project Element                        Project      1        2         3        4         5
C. Improve Education Sector Planning and Budgeting
* establish audit teams in SAAF                                       x
* training of SAAF audit teams                                        ..x
* develop methodology guides                                           ..x
* training                                                                 x
* recruitment of contractual computer specialist                      x
* carry out annual audits of project                                     x        x         x        x        x
* carry out project mid-term review                                                         x
* carry out a beneficiary assessment
D. Carry Out Pre-investment Studies
* training                                                               x        x         x
* streamline procedures within SSP for support to private school      ..... x x
* establish association of private school operators                   ...........   x x x
* studies:                                                            x           x
* develop seminar programs for school parents' associations              x
* establish program of maintenance/master Plan                           x
* establish improved systems for training                             ..x
* training                                                            ..x x       x
* develop enhanced approaches to girls' participation                 x x x x   x
* recruitment of technical advisors                              ....  ...... x x
x
E. ProjctSuevso and Evalutio                                              x    _x           x         x        x



85
Annex 11
Page 4 of 10
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(in USS million)
(Q) = quantity. Free standing figures represent the amount
Project Year                           Total
Project Element                      }PS          1      2        3         4         5      Payments    Renumrs
Credht Trnng (teabtive dales)
Board:                                         x
Signing:                                            x
Effectiveneu:                                           x
_iimim _~~~~~~~~~- ...-,*.
Arc*kad's Confradi5
RaJgbiiowCmudion of 1W dCe.mm
o DEsign (Q)                                     (365)   (365)    (365)    (365)    (365)
o Cotronting (Q)                                 (365)   (365)    (365)    (365)    (365)
o ConstntiruonlRehbbilitation (Q)                (365)    (365)    (365)    (365)    (365)        (1,800)
3.0      3.6       3.7       3.8      3.9        18.0      ICB/LCB
Emergency Rebhabukai
o Duesign (Q)                               x     (1)
o Conrscting       (Q)                          [...........  ............ ............ ...... ................
o    Constru ti jabilitation(Q)      ............         ...I......... .... ...  ............  ....--..
0.2      0.2       0.2       0.3      0.3         1.2



86
Annex 11
Page 5 flO
(Q) = quantity. Free standing figures represent the amount
Pre-                       Project Year                          Total   Remarks
Project Element                      Projec        1           2          3           4         5    Payments
cc. Special Contracting                                 x
Preparation of Bidding Documents                         x
Bidding and Contracting                                  x         x           x           x           x         x
Vehicles                                                          0.3                                                     0.3         ICB
Other imported Goods (computers, office and                        1.6                                                    1.6         ICB
communications equipment)
Local fiuniture and materials                                     2.1         0.7         0.7         0.7       0.8       5 0         LCB
LTECTOOIS.
Textbook Printing
a) Primary schools
o Initial stocks (Q)                                       (1.172.000) (649.300)  (540.750)            (2.362.050)    ICB
2.0        1.1         1.0                 4.1
o Replenihment  (Q)                                         (58.600)   (126.250)  (219.650)             (404. 500)
0.2        0.4         0.7                  1.3
o Teachers' Guides (Q)                                      (22.100)   (12.250)    (9.500)              (43.850)       ICB
0.1        0.05       0.05                 0.2
(b) Secondary schools
o lnitial stock (Q)                                         (572.450)                                   (572.450)      ICB
5.3                                         5.3
o Replenishment (Q)                                          (28.650)   (57.250)   (85.900)            (171.800)
0.3        0.5         0.8                  1.6
a Teachers Guides(Q)                                         (12.500)                                   (12.500)       ICB
0.2                                        0.2
fc) Distribution of Textbooks and Teachen' Guides                             0.4         0.2         0.1                 0.7         LCB



87
Annex 1 1
Page 6 of 10
(Q) = quantity. Free standing figures represent the amount
Pre-                     Project Year                        Total
Project Element                   Project    1          2          3          4         5     Payments Remarks
o Micronutrients and aritihehlinths                       0.2        0.3        0.3                  0.8       ICB
o Salaries                                      0.1                  0.2        0.4       0.5        1.2        Gvt
procedures
TORS                                                  x                                                                      IDA
hort Lists                                           x       x          x          x         x          x                 Consultant
Selection and contracting                             x       x          x          x         x          x                 Guidelines
o Foreign specialists                           0.8       0.7        0.7        0.4       0.4        3.0
o Local specialists                             0.3       0.5        0.5        0.4       0.4        2.1
o Training abroad                               0.2       0.1        0.1                             0.4
6,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.S..         .....    .,                ,.,      .. ,.  .-
o Small grants                                  0.2       0.2        0.2        0.2       0.2        1.0
o Local training and seminars                   0.6       0.3        0.4        0.4       0.4        2.1
o Operating costs                               0.6       0.6        0.5        0.5       0.4        2.6
o Refunding of PPF                              0.3                                                  0.3
TOTAL                          10.3      15.6       9.75      10.05      7.3        53.0
IDA-Fianced                   a31        13.3       a.0        7.0       6.1        42.5



88
Annex 1 1
Page 7 of 10
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Detailed schedule of training activities
..     .-...     .-....-...  . .....
l .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..............    ...  . .n  .......
. *. .  . . * . *.. .. .*. .  . . . . *.. . .  .  .*   *   . ..~  .*..* . *   .*   .* ....................... . .I.  .... ....................i ~ 1 ~
...........,.,............ :.,:..:. . ..:::::::.......... ......~ . ...... ........
lL INCREASE PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT ANDl
COMPLETION RATES
A. Construction and rehabilitation of 1800 classrooms
Seminars on school rehabilitation.
- regional level                                           x        x
=           ~~~- central level                                           x                              x
Training of communities on school mnaintenance                               x      x       x      x       x
B. Strengthen maintenance capacity of commnunities
Training of SNIES personnel:
- regional level                                           x        x       x      x       x      x
- central level                                            x        x       x
|IL IMPROVE TEACHING AND STUDENT LEARNING
A. Providc textbooks at primary and lowver secondary levels
Training of teachers in teacher's guide use                                         x
Training of APEs in stock maintenance                                               x       x      x      x
Training abroad of MEPUFP personnel in textbook evaluation                   x      x
Study visit abroad for MEPUFP personnel                                     x       x
B. Support primary staff development & school improvement
Teachers' sensitization                                             x        x      x       x
Training of management, jury members and evaluators                 x        x      x       x      x      x
Tutorship of school projects                                                 x      x       x      x      x
Jl3ry sessions
Distribution of documents                                                    x      x       x
Regional level seminars for dissemination                                    x      x       x      x      x
National seminars for dissemination                                -        -       x       x      x      x



89
Annex 1 1
Page 8 of 10
-        -
C. Improve student learning capacity
Institutional strengthening:
- program sensitization                             x
- pilot project planning and evaluation             x     x
Deworming and micronutrient supplement treatment
- research and baseline facility                    x
- [EC strategy                                      x      x
- pilot implementation facility                     x
- expanded implementation facility                         x     x      x      x
m. STRENGTHEN EDUCATION SYSTEM MANAGEMENT
A. Monitor student learning outcomes
Training abroad for A-IEPUFP personnel                     x      x      x     x      x
Local training                                             x      x      x     x      x
Seminars                                                   x      x      x     x      x
C. Improve education sector planning and budgeting
Local training in computer basics                          x
Training in advanced computer:                             x
- local                                             x
- abroad                                            x
Training abroad in methodology guides                      x
D. Support pre-investment studies
Training abroad of AtIEP UFP personnel:
- SPEP                                              x      x     x
- DNEE/DNES                                         x      x
- IREs/DPEs                                         x      x
Local training of .MIEPUFP personnel
- SPFP                                              x      x     x
- D,VEE/'DiVES                                      x      x
- JREs/DPEs                                         x      x
Training of members ad hoc committee in:
- teamwork                                          x
- information processing and management             x
- consultation preparation                          x
Training (local and abroad) of MEPUFP personnel and VET
teachers in reform of VET:
- design of action program (phase 1)                x
Pre- and in-service training of private school teachers    x      x      x     x      x
Seminar for non-educator owners of private schools         x      -     -          I-



90
Annex 11
Page 9 of 10
Detailed schedule of studies and research activities
...  .gg ;        ;g ; Egg  ;; :    ;SE: - -  g ;  E:. E;    :         gg          g; . ...   .   .     ..   ...  .;;  .   .g  ..   ..   ....  .!    .. .   ...  .::  ....   ..  .:  ....  i;f- '   ::::    :
Project  Eleinen t}.;      ..tlll-:0020;  .-  100;;;; 20 3|tti                                            4.. 5. .....  .  .. .   . .....  ......
II. IMPROVE TEACHING AND STUDENT LEARNING
D. Improve student learning capacity
Study: hunger in school children                                                x
Needs assessment: school immunization program                                   x
Quality research: IEC                                                           x
HlI. STRENGTHEN EDUCATION SYSTEM MANAGEMENT
D. Support pre-investment studies
Study: legal issues                                                     x
Study: community relations                                              x
Study private schooling sector                                          x



91
Annex I I
Page 10 of 10
Detailed schedule of technical assistance activities
Year                Dura-   Type
tian     of
-  :      - :     --     ----                        . -      -e   --f 
Project Element                      -:2                               3      4     5    (month)  consu
.-- : -: : :  .                  - . .  -   r day) Itant
11. IMPROVE TEACHING AND STUDENT LEARNING
A. Provide textbooks at primary and lower secondary levels
Bid preparation and evaluation for textbooks       x                                 I m     Intl
B. Support primary school staff development and school
improvement
Training of management, jury members and evaluators    x  x     x      x     x      416 d    Intl
Regional level seminars for dissemination          x      x     x      x     x      35 d      Intl
Regional level seminars for dissemination                 x     x      x     x      100 d    Intl
D. Improve student learning capacity
Management/logistics                               x      x     x                   3 m      Intl
IEC                                                x      x     x                   3 m      Intl
IEC                                                x      x     x                   3 m      Natl
Micronutrient                                      x      x                         2 m
Evaluation                                         x      x                         2 .      Intl
Parasitology                                       x      x                         2 I    Nati
Ill. STRENGTHEN EDUCATION SYSTEM
MANAGEMENT
A. Monitor student learning outcomes
Development of curriculum-based tests              x      x     x      x     x      300 d    Intl
C. Improve education sector planning and budgeting
Methodology guides specialist                      x      x                         5 m      Nati
D. Support pre-investment studies
Follow-up of national committee for VET reform     x      x     x      x     x      5 m      Intl
Training (local and abroad) of MEPlJFP personnel and   x  x     x                   5 m      Natl
VET teachers in reform of VET                                       I_                     I_I



92
Annex 12
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
(net of taxes and duties, in US$ million equivalent)
P~~~~0J..E........    D1SOUIISEMENT                            -::DISRSJRSEMENT~ ...
.:Y REAR:i it EM ISEMESTER: IEiII: iIINI SEMESTER.. 1:   CUMULATIVEE-: *%:.OF TOTALIi07 M-7PROFILE 11 Jl
(effectiveness)
1              1                  0.2                 0.2               0.1 %               0%
2                  2.7                 0.9               7%                 10%
2              3                  4.3                 7.2               16%                14%
4                  4.1                 11.3              26%                22%
3              5                  7.0                 18.3              43%                34%
6                  6.7                25.0               58%                42%
4              7                  3.7                 28.7              67%                54%
8                  3.5                32.2               75%                66%
5              9                  3.3                 35.5              83%                74%
10                 3.3                 38.8              91%                82%
6             11                  2.7                 41.5              98%                86%
12                 1.0                 42.5              100%               94%
7             13                                                                           96%
14                                                                          98%
8             15                                                                           100%
1/ Overall disbursement profile for Guinea



93
Annex 13
Page 1 of2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL
CONTENTS
SECTION 1: THE PROJECT
1. 1.       Project framework
1.2.        Objectives
1.3.        Description
1.4.        Estimated cost by component and category
1.5.        Financing plan
1.6.        Implementation Calendar
1.7.        Credit Agreement Conditionalities
SECTION 2: IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURES
2.1.         Project coordination, monitoring, and implementation
2.2.         Civil works
2.3.         Textbooks
2.4.         Drugs
2.5.         Small grants
2.6          Training
2.7.         Operational activities
SECTION 3: PROCUREMENT
3.1.         Calendar for procurement of goods and services
3.2.         Applicable procurement procedures
3.3.         Reporting requirements
SECTION 4.: DISBURSEMENTS
4. 1.        Disbursement category and reallocation of funds
4.2.         Credit account
4.3.         Special account
4.4.         Project account



94
Annex 13
Page 2 of 2
SECTION 5: ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
5.1.         Accounting and budget system
5.2.         Terms of reference and audit schedule
SECTION 6: MONITORING AND EVALUATION
6.1          Implementation monitoring
6.2.         Mid-term Review
6.3.         Supervision Plan (IDA)
6.4.         Implementation Completion Report
ANNEXES
Annex  I  Operational guidelines for small grants program
Annex 2   Textbook distribution guidelines
Annex 3   Sample contract with NGOs
Annex 4   Standard ICB Documents for works
Annex 5   Standard LCB Documents for works
Annex 6   Standard ICB Documents for equipment
Annex 7   Standard ICB Documents for textbooks
Annex 8   Standard LCB Documents for equipment
Annex 9   Sample Letter of Invitation for consultant services
Annex 10  Disbursement Letter
Annex 11   Bank guidelines for contracts and bids



95
Annex 14
Page I of I
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of February 1995)
Loan or Credit No.     Fiscal        Borrower          Purpose                  Amount in US$ million
Year                                                       (less cancellation)
Credits                                                                Bank    IDA       Undis-      Closing
bursed       Date
3 Credits closed                                                                 38.29
C18370-GN              1988        GUINEA         POP/HEALTH                     19.70      0.94   06/30/95(R)
C19950-GN              1989        GUINEA         SDA                             9.00      3.47   12/31/95(R)
C25740-GN              1994        GUINEA         HEALTH/NUT.                    24.60    25.27  06/30/01
SCTR
Total Credits: 3                                                                 53.30    29.67
TOTAL                          91.59
of which repaid                0.75
TOTAL held by                  90.84
Bank/IDA
Amount sold
of which repaid
TOTAL                                    29.67
undisbursed
SALs/SECALs
I SECAL closed
(S) C21550-GN          1990        GUINEA        EDUC. SEC. ADJ.                 20.00      0.00  06/30/94(R)
PROGRAM
Total SALISECAL: 1                                                               20.00      0.00
Note:
* Total approved, repayments, and outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) Indicates formally revised Closing Date.
(S) Indicates SALJSECAL Loans and Credits.
The net approved and Bank repayments are historical value, all others are market value.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing Dates are based upon the Loan Department official data and are not taken from
the Task Budget file.



96
Annex 15
Page l of2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents available in the Project File
Projet d'appui a l'enseignement technique et a la formation professionnelle en Guinee, No.
436/18028. Agence canadienne de developpement international.  Janvier 1995. Annexe
operationnelle. Fevrier 1995.
Annuaire Statistique et Carte Scolaire Informatisee en Guinee. Telemediatique. Fevrier-Avril
1994.
Participation des jeunes filles dans l'enseignement technique et la main-d'oeuvre feminine dans le
systeme d'emploi. Ministere de l'enseignement Pre-Universitaire et de la Formation
Professionnelle. Mars 1994.
Orientations strategiques du Projet IDA (Banque Mondiale). Y. Cogne. Juillet 1994.
Enqu8te sur la scolarisation des filles en milieu rural.  Rapport de synthese.  Ministere de
l'Enseignement Pre-Universitaire et de la Formation Professionnelle. Mars 1994.
Etude portant sur les aspects socio-culturels et socio-economiques de la scolarisation des filles au
niveaux primaire - Cas de la Guinee. Minstere de l'Education Nationale. Avril 1991.
Study of Girls' Access to Primary Schooling in Guinea. USAID. June 1990.
Analysis of Barriers and Factors Influencing the Educational Participation of Girls and Rural
Children in Guinea. Working Group on Educational Access, Ministry of Pre-University Education
and Vocational Training. May 1992.
La Qualite de l'ecole primaire: une etude de cas sur la Guinee. 1990.
Acces des filles a l'education secondaire. Programme Femmes, Sciences et Technique (EST)
Projet de Mise en Oeuvre. Y. Cogne, Novembre 1993.
Recommandations pour le developpement du systeme de formation en Republique de Guinee. K.
Klaushenke. Avril 1994.
Planification de la Phase II du Programme de Formation et Perfectionnement en Guinee. Claude
Dufour. Janvier 1995.
Les Technologies de l'information et de la communication au Ministere de l'enseignement Pre-
Universitaire et de la formation Professionnelle de la Republique de Guinee. Telemediatique. Juin-
Aout 1994.



97
Annex 15
Page 2 of 2
Collecte des Donnees et Utilisation des Statistiques - Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur et de
la Recherche Scientifique. Telemediatique. 1994.
Synthese statistique enseignement primaire. Ministere de l'Enseignement Pre-Universitaire et de la
Formation Professionnelle. Octobre 1994.
Mission Report on Private Education in Guinea. P. Hebert, L. Hille, F. Lofficial. July 1994.
Mission d'etude du budget, des projections budgetaires et des circuits de financement du secteur de
l'education PASE II. F. Abillama. Decembre 1994.
Communications et Telecommunications pour le MEPUFP. 1994.
Essai d'etude de l'enseignement primaire prive en Republique de Guinee.
Rapport sur la formation des maitres des classes multigrades. M. Moisan, 1993.
Evaluation du Systeme educatif guineen. Theorisation du Modele. ENESE-CEPEC International.
Avril 1993.
Gestion du Personnel dans l'enseignement secondaire. Rapport de mission. I. Nzamutuma. Juillet
1994.
School Health in Guinea. Mission Report. D. Heyward. February 1995.
"Faisabilite de la mise en place d'une cellule d'evaluation permanente". Rapport de mission. E.
Barrier et D. Robin. Mai 1994.
Proces-Verbal de la reunion de travail ayant regroupe la Commission du Ministere de 1'enseignement
pr&-universitaire et de la formation professionnelle, la Banque Mondiale et l'USAID sur la composante
manuels scolaires. Septembre 1994.
Programme de Petites Subventions d'ecole: Projet de Manuel Operationnel. J. Schwille, M. Dembele.
1989.
Documents produits par l'atelier sur le Programme de Petites Subventions d'Ecole (PPSE) en Guinee. J.
Schwille M. Dembele. 1994.
Le Programme de Petites Subventions d'Ecoles (PPSE) en Guinee. J. Schwille, M. Dembele. 1995.
Mission report on NGO sector in Guinea, C. Malena, July 1994.






SENEGAL                                                                                                        GUINEA                            8
,__----- r      ->               ToKedaugou                       EQUITY AND SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
To ximoA   :"-A-vKounatro         -Xx,, 1T _4 ogou
G           U I N  E A  -                                                                                                                       y  -gossola
-12'        B I BISSAU                                                  -Mai               '- -,                                                       gN,  Bo mo/:                                        12'-
- ~ Row   Gaouar;  -~  ~  ;                                       Didi                  !
.. Koubia
- ,v'   '   S .    .   Tou  Dinguiroye,                      17   gum             e
, Leloumao   /'-Q1be                     - Kalinko   *
/1                                                                                                                                /~~~~~~Sngr          -./; 
K,/ nor       SBO/iE SD S     no r 6di    ThIimuIu4   B:ssi/irimo ..:Kouroos''                                                    NMandaanooi"'                               M        A    L  I
<Boke Telimele*,~~~~~~~~~~~~' \ ': ~~~~Bissikrima, ...... '
Kamsarog;  ............   ;      Dalaba; .  v         >                              ,                 '   ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Mandianay.  '
. ~~~~~~Friao Y+
:              ,       R(?   OTandon                                                    .                                     Kaan                                            rMamou
'  BotFa  .  > ' , ,J t ......... ,> ' ' Klankan t   
-10^ ; ~~~~~~~~Kinditr  zO_;aanl  I
S~ ~                                                                            ..                             ID                                 r -
Du rekO                                                                                               f"  Mor,b(ya 
I SI ERRA  LEON E                                                       Mrby
Conakryg                             ?\                                                 ), 
rqsJ   *   , /    W PAVED ROADS             \         M              /
For coroh       f               ROUTES PAVEES
ALL-WEATHER ROADS                 "
K<rcuoneg 
0   20   40  60  80   100 120  Benty                 ~~~ROUTES PRAY/CABLES PAR TOUS TEMPS
K IOMETERS                                            -4-  I  x  RAILROADS                            *          "Kissidauqou
KILOMETERS               ~To Free town                         CHEMIN DE PER                                                                                            -N
14"                               ~~~~~~~~                                     ~~RIVERS  ( 
140                                           FLEU\VES                                                                  - 
+    INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
AEROPORT INTERNATIONAL                   ,                     4                \ .Be
MAURITANIA                                          AIFED
1    AERODROMES                                                          " Oueckkda    Macento
\ ' - -- -- - -I                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL                     I-          --   -'           "-tQ .trL > A-~~
SENEGAL                 M    I                                  CAPITALE                           r                                                 . -          $
THE                ;            M A L I                           i)    ADMINISTRATIVE REGION CAPITALS                                                                    A
GAMBIA                                                                    CAPITALES DES MINISTERES RESIDENTS            5                                 .          -
_  -,    ,,2   /   /    S    PREFECTURE CAPITALS                       _-                        -
GUINEA-                                          a"PREFECTURES                                               r~                                                                            O E         a
BISU6       GIEA        '-BURKINA                                  LCOTTEE PEFCTRSB-/ C
bISSAU, r                 /           BURKINA -8;             -~  -PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                                   )     /
GUI NEA  wx  .    FASOf                                LIMITES DES PREFECTURES                'i, 
Conakry*/Th                                                        LI/E   E   I/TRSRSDNS~k                                                                   LlADMINISTRATlVE REGION BOUNDARIES   J  `jzr4k
Conokrye ,r   lt  (   4  8                       ~~~~~~~~~LIMITES DES MINISTERES RESIDENTS  -                            )Jeko               Lla                 D'I VOIR E
frn   SIERRA LEONE7TJ      COTE                                  FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES                                           j                             / )'I OIR
B / y DI|VOIRE ,1'>   The boundaries, colors, denominations anci any other information                          ;/ 'Y   u
LIbERIA   .            \-   shown an this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,  LI B E RI                 AA 
coors,   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~" ~~~~~To Abid jon
oany judgment on the legal status of any territory, or ony endorsement                                 ,,r"
-                   or acceptance of such boundaries                                           10                                               "o












