Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2719 GUI
                           Development Credit Agreement
                      (Equity and School Improvement Project)
                                      between
                                REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                                        and
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                Dated June 8, 1995
                                                         CREDIT NUMBER 2719 GUI
                           DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)    the Association has received a letter, dated May 5,
1995, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to strengthen the performance
of the Borrower's education sector (the Program) and declaring
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
      (C)    the Borrower intends to contract from the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID), the
African Development Bank (AfDB), the European Union, France
(FAC), Japan, and Canada (CIDA) loans and grants in an
aggregate amount equivalent to approximately $78,000,000 to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in the respective loan and grant agreements (the
Financing Agreements) to be entered into respectively between
the Borrower and USAID, AfDB, the European Union, FAC, Japan,
and CIDA;
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                     ARTICLE I
                          General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)    "MEPUFP" means the Ministry of the Borrower
responsible for primary and secondary education and vocational
training;
      (b)    "VET" means Vocational Education Training;
      (c)    "Project Year" means each period of twelve months,
beginning from the Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter.
      (d)    "Steering Committee" means the education sector
management committee established by the Borrower in accordance
with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement
(Education Sector Adjustment Credit), dated September 28, 1990,
between the Borrower and the Association;
      (e)    "DAAF" means the Borrower's department responsible
for financial and administrative affairs within MEPUFP;
      (f)    "Project Implementation Manual" means the manual
referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement which
describes arrangements and procedures to be utilized in the
implementation of the Project;
      (g)    "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of letters dated April 20, 1993 and May
7, 1993 and July 29, 1994 and September 16, 1994, respectively,
between the Borrower and the Association; and
      (h)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                    ARTICLE II
                                    The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-eight million five hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 28,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  3
      (b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each
year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October
15 commencing October 15, 2005 and ending April 15, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on April
15, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of
such principal amount.
      (b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
Page  4
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                    ARTICLE III
                             Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through MEPUFP with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
education practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
      (b)    Without limitation upon the provision of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Association and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out,
or cause to be carried out, the Project, in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement and the Project Implementation Manual.
      (c)    Without any limitation upon the generality of the
provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the Borrower shall:
(i) allocate sufficient funds in each of its budgets for 1997,
1998 and 1999, for the creation of at least 600 primary school
teacher positions for each of the 1997/98, 1998/99 and
1999/2000 school years; (ii) prior to the start of each of the
1997/98, 1998/99, and 1999/2000 school years, recruit not less
than 600 additional primary school teachers; and (iii) in each
of its budgets for 1997, 1998, and 1999 fiscal years, increase
the budget allocation for primary education in accordance with
a schedule agreed with the Association and which is designed to
ensure that in its budget for fiscal year 2000 and thereafter
such allocations shall represent not less than 42% of the
operating budget for the education sector.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) Not later than 30 months after the
Effective Date, the Borrower shall conduct, jointly with the
Association, a comprehensive review of the implementation of
Page  5
the Project. Without limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing the review shall cover, inter alia: (i) the
implementation and management of the Project, (ii)
implementation procedures, (iii) progress made in carrying out
the Project, (iv) the performance and use of technical
assistance personnel and the role of counterpart staff, (v) the
status and result of training, (vi) reporting, accounting, and
auditing performance, (vii) disbursement and procurement
procedures, and (viii) the overall sustainability of the
Project.
      (b)    Not later than three months prior to such review, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, including: (i) an assessment of the progress achieved
in carrying out the various parts of the Project; and (ii) an
evaluation of the impact of the Project.
      (c)    Promptly after said review, the Borrower shall: (i)
prepare an action plan satisfactory to the Association based on
the recommendations stemming from said review; and (ii) adopt
and implement said plan for the further implementation of the
Project.
      Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)    prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, designed to ensure the
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project;
      (b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
                                    ARTICLE IV
                                Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)    The Borrower shall:
             (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                    for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                    audited, in accordance with appropriate
                    auditing principles consistently applied, by
                    independent auditors acceptable to the
                    Association;
             (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                    available, but in any case not later than six
                    (6) months after the end of each such year, a
                    certified copy of the report of such audit by
                    said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                    as the Association shall have reasonably
                    requested; and
             (iii)         furnish to the Association such other
                           information concerning said records,
                           accounts and the audit thereof as the
Page  6
                           Association shall from time to time
                           reasonably request.
      (c)    For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                    accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                    records and accounts reflecting such
                    expenditures;
             (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                    Association has received the audit report for
                    the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                    from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                    Special Account was made, all records
                    (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                    and other documents) evidencing such
                    expenditures;
             (iii)         enable the Association's representatives
                           to examine such records; and
             (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                    included in the annual audit referred to in
                    paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                    report of such audit contains a separate
                    opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during such
                    fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                    internal controls involved in their
                    preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                    related withdrawals.
                                     ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)    a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be
carried out; and
      (b)    (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                    (A)    The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                           proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                           Borrower for the financing of the Project
                           shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                           terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                           to the terms of the agreement providing
                           therefor; or
                    (B)    any such loan shall have become due and
                           payable prior to the agreed maturity
                           thereof.
             (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                    apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                    satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                    suspension, cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                    Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                    under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                    for the Project are available to the Borrower
                    from other sources on terms and conditions
                    consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                    under this Agreement.
Page  7
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                                    ARTICLE VI
                            Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
      (a)    The Borrower has prepared and furnished to the
Association draft procurement documents, acceptable to the
Association, for all contracts to be awarded pursuant to the
provisions of Part A of Section I of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement during the first Project Year.
      (b)    The Borrower has signed all contracts for
consultants' services required for the implementation of the
Project during the first Project Year in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (c)    The Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation
Manual, acceptable to the Association, detailing procedures for
carrying out the activities under the Project.
      (d)    The Borrower has employed the independent auditor(s)
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, including
a contract period of at least three years.
      (e)    The Borrower has recruited 600 additional primary
school teachers for the 1995/1996 school year.
      (f)    The Borrower has employed non-governmental
organizations referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                    ARTICLE VII
                    Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
             Ministry of Planning
             P.O. Box 221
             Conakry, Guinea
             Facsimile:
             412023
      For the Association:
             International Development Association
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
Page  8
             Cable address:                    Telex:
                    INDEVAS                      248423 (RCA)
                    Washington, D.C.                    82987 (FTCC)
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                           REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                           By /s/ Boubacar Barry
                                                         Authorized Representati
ve
                           INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                           Regional Vice Preside
nt
ca
                                    SCHEDULE 1
                     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
        Amount of the
      Credit Allocated                   % of
        (Expressed in                Expenditures
CategorySDR Equivalent)             to be Financed
(1)     Civil works                     8,400,000         100% of foreign
                                 expenditures and
                                                          75% of local
                                     expenditures
(2)     Equipment,                      3,400,000         100% of foreign
    vehicles,                                             expenditures, and
    furniture and                                         80% of local
    materials                                             expenditures
(3)     Textbooks                       6,100,000         100% of foreign
    (including                                            expenditures and
    distribution)                                         90% of local
                                     expenditures
(4)     Drugs                             550,000         100% of foreign
                                     expenditures
(5)     Grants under                      700,000         95%
Page  9
    Part B.1 of the
    Project
(6)     Consultants'                    4,600,000         100%
    services,
    and Training
        Amount of the
      Credit Allocated                   % of
        (Expressed in                Expenditures
CategorySDR Equivalent)             to be Financed
(7)     Operating costs                 1,600,000         90%
(8)     Refunding of                      250,000         Amounts due
    Project                                               pursuant to
    Preparation                                           Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                               of this   Agreement
(9) Unallocated                         2,900,000
              __________
        TOTAL                          28,500,000
              =========
2.  For the purpose of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of a country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "Operating costs" means incremental recurrent
expenditures incurred for the implementation of the Project for
staff salaries and travel allowances, office supplies, office
communications services, minor office equipment, utilities,
fuel, maintenance and insurance of vehicles used for the
Project, and primary schools maintenance.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for goods, works and services under contracts
not exceeding $150,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                    SCHEDULE 2
                            Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
its efforts to: (a) increase primary school enrollment and
completion rates; (b) improve teaching and student learning in
primary and lower secondary schools; and (c) strengthen the
management of its education system.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Increasing Access to Primary Education
1.  Construction and Rehabilitation of Primary School Facilities
Page  10
    (a)   Construction and equipping of about 600 new classrooms.
    (b)   Rehabilitation and equipping of about 1,200 existing
classrooms.
    (c)   Carrying out of workshops to familiarize school
administrators and communities with issues pertaining to school
rehabilitation design, programming and execution.
    (d)   Establishment of a School Facilities Emergency Repair
and Rehabilitation Fund.
2.  Maintenance of School Facilities
    (a)   Establishment of a school facilities maintenance scheme
and monitoring of its implementation.
    (b)   Training of school administrators and communities in
school maintenance operations.
    (c)   Strengthening the capacity of MEPUFP to program
investments for construction and maintenance of school
facilities and to oversee their execution.
Part B:  Improving Teaching Practices and Students Learning
Processes
1.  Upgrading Training for Teachers and School Administrators
    (a)   Establishment and implementation of a pilot scheme
designed to assist primary school teachers and administrators
in the development of innovative ways to improve their teaching
and school management practices at the local level, including
small grants for staff development.
    (b)   Monitoring and evaluation of the results of the pilot
scheme referred to under paragraph (a) above and organization
of workshops to disseminate the best practices derived
therefrom and expand the scope of said scheme.
2.  Acquisition and Distribution of Textbooks
    (a)   Development of procedures to ensure an efficient
distribution of textbooks to primary and lower secondary
schools and their proper use by teachers.
    (b)   Acquisition and distribution of textbooks and teachers
guides.
3.  Improving Students' Health and Nutrition
    (a)   Establishment of a pilot health enhancement scheme
designed to provide micronutrient, antihelminths, and a mass
treatment of parasitic infection to primary school students.
    (b)   Monitoring and evaluation of the pilot health
enhancement scheme and organization of workshops to disseminate
the said results and to expand the scope of the scheme.
Part C:    Strengthening MEPUFP's Administrative and Financial
          Management and
     Investments Programming Capacity
1.  Capacity to Monitor Students' Scholastic Achievements
    (a)   Development of adequate testing instruments designed to
measure the scope of knowledge and skills successfully acquired
by students at selected grade levels.
    (b)   Implementation, and dissemination of results, of
Page  11
students' achievements testing on a regular basis with the
testing instruments referred to under paragraph (a) above; and
analysis and publication, in an aggregate form, of the results
of the said testing.
2.  Establishment of a Communications System
    Establishment of an electronic communications network and a
radio communications capability for MEPUFP and its
decentralized offices.
3.  Upgrading the Expertise of MEPUFP's Accounting and
Statistics Unit, through the acquisition of required equipment
and training of the relevant staff.
4.  Promotion of Private Schools and VET Development, through
pre-investment studies, workshops and training of MEPUFP staff.
                                   *     *     *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
2000.
                                    SCHEDULE 3
                       Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Association's
prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part D of
this Section, the Association's prior approval will be required
for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the
period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary
for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more.
Page  12
3.  Goods procured in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 above shall be
exempted from price preshipment inspection by a third party
inspection firm.
Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Guinea may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Contracts for goods and works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $5,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
2.  Items or groups of items for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $10,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $7,600,000, shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association.
3.  Items or groups of items for small materials and supplies
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000
may be procured under contracts awarded either: (a) through
direct contracting, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association; or (b) on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association.
4.  Services for the distribution of textbooks may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
Part D:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  13
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                                    SCHEDULE 4
                              Implementation Program
1.  The Steering Committee established within MEPUFP will be in
charge of the overall coordination of the implementation of the
Project. The Technical Secretariat of the Steering Committee
will be in charge of the day-to-day coordination of Project
activities. The DAAF will be responsible, in cooperation with
the Technical Secretariat, for all financial matters related to
the implementation of the Project and will prepare annual work
programs and budgets. DAAF shall employ an accountant, whose
qualifications and experience shall be at all times acceptable
to the Association, to be responsible for maintaining Project
accounts, preparing and processing disbursement requests, and
handling procurement activities. Prior to the end of each
Project Year, the Technical Secretariat shall organize a
meeting, chaired by the Secretary General of MEPUFP, and with
the participation of all departments involved in the
implementation of the Project, to review the implementation of
the Project during the concerned Project Year, and to adopt the
work program for the following Project Year.
2.  The Borrower shall carry out Parts A.1 (a) and (b), and Part
A.2 (c) through local non-governmental organizations which
shall be employed on the basis of the provisions of Section II
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  14
3.  The Borrower shall: (a) not later than six (6) months prior
to the end of the first Project Year, begin the implementation
of the pilot program under Part B.1. (a) of the Project; and
(b) not later than thirty (30) months after the Effective Date,
complete the implementation of the pilot program under Part
B.3. (a) of the Project.
4.  The eligibility criteria, terms and conditions for making
grants under Part B.1 of the Project shall be those which are
specified in the Project Implementation Manual.
                                    SCHEDULE 5
                                  Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $750,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
    (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                 requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                 such intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                 documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                 paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                 payments in respect of which replenishment is
                 requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                 Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
Page  15
                 withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                 the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                 shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                 by said documents and other evidence to have been
                 paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                 expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with theprovisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
Page  16
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
