                      PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                               APPRAISAL STAGE

                                                                           October 19, 2011
                                                                        Report No.: AB6990

Operation Name                       Nigeria Edo State First Development Policy Operation
Region                               AFRICA
Country                              Nigeria
Sector                               Sub-national government administration (40%); General
                                     industry and trade sector (30%);Vocational training
                                     (15%);Public administration- Education (15%)
Operation ID                         P123353
Lending Instrument                   Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                          FEDERAL MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Implementing Agency                  Edo State Government
Date PID Prepared                    October 7, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal          December 6, 2011
Estimated Date of Board              March 29, 2012
Approval
Corporate Review Decision            Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                     proceed with the preparation of the operation.

I.     Country and Sector Background


Edo represents an average Nigerian State in size. Unlike the large city state of Lagos, or the
relatively large state of Kano, Edo has a population of approximately 3.5 million people which is
close to the average population of a typical Nigerian State. It is situated in the south-south part of
Nigeria that covers the Niger Delta region. It is one of the nine oil-producing states, but accounts
for less than 2 percent of total oil production. Although most of Edo’s socio-economic indicators
are relatively better than the national average, it is one of the poorer states in the southern half of
the country. The population living in poverty is estimated at 44.3 percent compared to the
national average of 51.6 percent and a regional average of 38.3 percent in the south. It has an
unemployment rate of 22.1 percent, compared to a national average of 15.3 percent and 12.8
percent for the southern region. Youth unemployment is even higher, at 36.4 percent, compared
to the national average of 23.9 percent and 22.4 percent in the south.
Following extensive consultations, the current administration that came to power in November
2008 identified high poverty levels, youth unemployment, dilapidated infrastructure, and
flooding as the main development challenges facing the state. In response, the Government
embarked on an infrastructure renewal program, focusing on the construction and rehabilitation
of roads, schools, health institutions and storm water drainage systems. In order to deliver value
for money in implementing these programs and faced with a tight budget constraint, the
Government also initiated a wide range of reforms in public financial management. First, it went
on a drive to increase internally generated revenues (IGR) which subsequently increased by 300
percent, from N300 million a month to N1.2 billion, between 2008 and 2010. Second, it started
implementing measures for reducing wastage in public expenditure. Notable amongst these
reforms was the introduction of citizen’s identity cards based on biometric technology that will
among the many applications, be used to control wastage in the payroll system. It also introduced
an integrated financial management information system that will provide a platform for the
operations of the state’s public financial management system.
In spite of the visible transformation that has already been visible in Edo State, challenges still
remain. The infrastructure development needs still abound with huge financing gaps still to be
filled. For instance, there are still many schools at various levels of education requiring
rehabilitation. Similarly, although work has begun on the master plan of the Benin City storm
water drainage system, the financing requirements of its full implementation are immense.
Finally, Government systems remain largely weak which threatens the long-term sustainability
of progress. The Government’s overall strategy is to continue mobilizing more resources,
including from external sources, and to strengthen systems and institutions for sustained
progress. In terms of additional mobilization of resources, the Government earlier in the year
floated a N25 billion bond from the capital market for infrastructure development. Nonetheless,
the Government’s preference is for concessional sources of financing. At the same time, the
Government recognizes the importance of anchoring its infrastructure development. It is for
these reasons that the Bank is providing support through a Development Policy Operation (DPO)
that seeks to help the state fill a financing gap in the implementation of its development strategy,
while at the same time supporting a policy and institutional reform program. Using a DPO in
strengthening governance at state level is one of the strategies envisaged in the Bank’s second
Country Partnership Strategy for Nigeria. Edo becomes the second state after Lagos to benefit
from a budget support operation.
II.    Operation Objectives

The DPO’s project development objective is to support the Edo State Government’s medium-
term development goal of reducing poverty by providing direct budget financing in support of a
policy and institutional reform program that seeks to improve the management of public
resources and the policy and institutional environment for growth and employment creation.

III.   Rationale for Bank Involvement

The rationale for Bank involvement through the proposed DPO is that it is critical to the
implementation of the Bank’s strategy for Africa, and in particular, Nigeria, for supporting
improved governance. Specifically, the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Nigeria
covering the period 2010-2013 has a strengthened focus on improving governance at the State
level given the critical role that states play in service delivery. For this purpose, the strategy
envisages the introduction of state level DPOs as one of the support instruments for
strengthening state-level governance, particularly to help states manage public resources better.
This is because financial support under DPOs is premised on progress in improving policies and
institutions. It envisages that the provision of DPO support to reformist states could also create
incentives for other states to engage in policy reform dialogue even if the DPO amounts are
relatively modest compared to the states’ other resources. The envisaged demonstration effect of
state DPOs is being manifested in the proposed DPO since the authorities in Edo have openly
admitted that they have drawn inspiration from the transformation that has taken place in Lagos
which was identified in the CPS as a “pioneer? state for state-level DPOs.

IV.    Tentative financing

Source:                                                                            ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                     0
International Development Association (IDA)                                          75
Borrower/Recipient                                                                     0
IBRD                                                                                   0
Others
                                                                     Total           75

V.     Tranches – Not applicable

                                                                                   ($m.)
First Tranche
Second Tranche
Etc.
Total


VI.    Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

The implementing entity of the operation is the Edo State Government which has designated the
State Ministry of Budget, Planning, and Economic Development to coordinate the reform
program. Overall implementation and monitoring of the reform program as well as its results is
overseen by an inter-agency steering committee chaired by the Deputy Executive Governor of
the State and with the Commissioner for the Ministry of Budget, Planning, and Economic
Development as its Deputy Chair. The steering committee will meet regularly to monitor
progress in implementing the reform program supported by the operation. In this role, the
steering committee is being supported by a technical team headed by a program manager located
in the Ministry of Budget, Planning, and Economic Development. The program manager for the
DPO also doubles as manager for a Bank funded TA project, the State Employment and
Expenditure for Results (SEEFOR) Project, which is the Bank’s main instrument for providing
TA to the State in the implementation of the reform program underpinning the DPO. The State
Government has recently established a Monitoring and Evaluation Department in the Ministry of
Budget, Planning, and Economic Development to coordinate M&E of state programs more
broadly.

The Bank team has also put in place a core team involving sector specialists and a Monitoring
and Evaluation specialist for monitoring actions and reviewing progress of implementation of the
proposed operation. Apart from the policy and institutional reforms to be implemented by the
Government, an M&E framework has also been developed. The framework describes expected
outcomes at the end of the program and indicators for measuring success. It also identifies
intermediate targets expected to be achieved at the end of each individual operation. During
implementation support (supervision) missions, progress towards the achievement of these
annual targets and end of program outcomes will be evaluated. Relevant ministries and
departments will be directly responsible for carrying out specific actions contained in the policy
matrix as well as providing data on indicators for measuring progress towards end of program
outcomes. The Bank will also provide technical assistance for strengthening the State
Government’s newly established M&E department. As part of this initiative, the support will
include the strengthening of statistical systems in the state.

VII.   Risks and Risk Mitigation

Potentially, the program faces three main types of risks. The first is macroeconomic emanating
from uncertainty in world oil prices or lower than projected non-oil revenues. A significant fall
in oil-price revenues or non-oil revenues could undermine the State Government’s planned
expenditure program, which mostly depends on oil financed federal transfers. It would reduce
the State Government’s fiscal space to undertake significant discretionally expenditures,
especially on infrastructure development. With limited scope to borrow additional resources, the
State Government could be forced to cut down on some priority investment expenditures, in
order to accommodate statutory recurrent expenditures. However, the Edo State Government has
expressed commitment to ensuring that any fiscal consolidation would be undertaken in a
prioritized manner. Further, to mitigate the risk of significant revenue variability, the Bank will
continue to advise the Federal Government on the need to establish a more robust oil fund that
would be insulated from ad hoc withdrawals and hence build up healthy balances that would be
used to cushion the economy from negative oil price shocks. The Bank, the Fund, and other
development partners will also actively support the capacity of the Fiscal Responsibility
Commission in playing a critical role in enforcing adherence to the oil-price based fiscal rule.

The second is political risk as a result of the upcoming Governorship elections slated for July
2012. In the near term, there is a risk that political activities in the run-up to the elections could
distract the Government’s attention to reforms, and hence delay their implementation. Beyond
the elections, there is also a risk to the medium-term sustainability of the reforms being
supported by the DPO should a different administration emerge from the elections. The
Government has expressed commitment to sustaining the reform program, highlighting the fact
that progress in implementing the program has political benefits. Nevertheless, the Bank team
has still put in place three measures to mitigate the risk. First, conscious efforts will be
undertaken to identify and establish a critical mass of reform champions at technical level who
can continue to focus on implementing those elements of the reform program that are critical but
not politically sensitive. Second, to help maintain the momentum, the team will intensify
implementation support visits and missions to the state. Finally, the team will accelerate social
accountability work already started in Edo for supporting greater participation of civil society
and other non-state actors in monitoring reform programs.

The final potential risk emanates from the systemic problem of capacity constraints in that is
common within Government. This risk could cause some delays in the implementation of
reforms. To mitigate this risk, the Bank, in conjunction with DFID and the EU, will provide
technical assistance as required using resources from Bank investment and TA projects currently
being implemented in areas also covered by the DPO.
VIII. Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

It is expected that the policy and institutional reforms being supported will contribute positively
towards the reduction of poverty. First, reforms for improving public financial management
reforms are aimed at improving the quality of spending in Edo State, which is expected to benefit
the poor, such as ensuring that the budget is aligned to poverty reducing priorities, and that all
practices in the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the budget are consistent with the
principles of effectiveness, efficiency, and transparency. Secondly, reforms for improving
investment climate are also expected to be beneficial to the poor in Edo State through increased
opportunities for self-employment and wage employment. In terms of self employment, a boom
in investments in the state will lead to the emergence of a middle class in Edo which will in turn
lead to an increase in demand for goods and services provided by microenterprises, most of
which are owned by the poor. At the same time, increased investment will create wage
employment opportunities for the poor. Finally, improved quality of education will empower the
poor and put them in a better position to take advantage of various income earning opportunities.
The specific measures supported by this operation are not expected to have likely and significant
adverse effects on the environment, natural resources, and forests. Environmental effects may
arise under the broader overall activities funded by the government’s budget, and implemented
under national regulations, but not be directly linked to the specific policies.

IX.     Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Khwima Lawrence Nthara
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: 5359+262
Fax: (234) 9 314-5267
Email: knthara@worldbank.org
Location: Abuja, Nigeria (IBRD)

Borrower
Contact:       Mr M.A. Alao
Title:         Director, Federal Ministry of Finance
Tel:           (234) 802 319-5463

X.     For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
