Page  1
CREDIT NUMBER 3778-1 BOS 
 
Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Social Insurance Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated                                               , 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3778-1 BOS 
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated                          , 2005 between BOSNIA AND 
HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS 
(A) 
the Borrower and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Social Insurance Technical Assistance Project) dated 
July 7, 2003 (the Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the 
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement 
(the Project); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has made available a portion of the proceeds to the 
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Federation) and to Republika Srpska 
respectively and entered into Subsidiary Financing Agreements with the Federation and 
Republika Srpska respectively for that purpose; 
 
(C) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project in an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to one million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
1,400,000); and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Amending Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement 
 
Section 1.01. Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“A. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of 
the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modification set forth below (the 1999 General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement and apply to the Initial Financing (as hereinafter defined): 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a)     
Section 5.08 of the 1999 General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Credit Agreement, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under the Credit, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Association’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds 
of its credits.  To that end, if the Association shall at any time determine that the amount 
of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such 
item in the Development Credit Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy 
of the Association.” 
 
B. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of 
the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement and apply in respect of the Additional Financing (hereinafter defined): 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Credit Agreement, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under the Credit, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Association’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds 
of its credits.  To that end, if the Association shall at any time determine that the amount 
of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such 
item in the Development Credit Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy 
of the Association.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Section 1.02. of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
adding new paragraphs (aa) through (ee) to read as follows:  
 
Page  4
-
3
-
“(aa) 
“Agreement Amending the Project Agreement” means either the 
Agreement Amending the Federation Project Agreement or the Agreement Amending the 
RS Project Agreement (defined hereafter), as the case may be, and the term “Agreements 
Amending the Project Agreements” means said agreements collectively; 
 
(bb) 
 
“Agreement Amending the Federation Project Agreement” 
means the agreement between the Association and the Federation of even date herewith; 
 
(cc) 
 
“Agreement Amending the RS Project Agreement” means the 
agreement between the Association and Republika Srpska of even date herewith; 
 
(dd) 
 
“Amending Agreement” means this Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement (Social Insurance Technical Assistance Project) between 
the Borrower and the Association, dated July 7, 2003; and 
 
(ee)  
 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, 
dated May 25, 2005, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.03. Section 2.01. of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 6,600,000) (the Credit), consisting of: (i) an original amount in various currencies 
equivalent to five million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 5,200,000) (the Initial Financing); and (ii) an additional amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 1,400,000) (the Additional Financing).” 
 
Section 1.04. The following new paragraph (c) is added to Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement: 
 
“(c) 
 
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, all amounts withdrawn from the Credit Account or made subject to a special 
commitment pursuant to Section 5.02. of the General Conditions shall be withdrawn from 
the Initial Financing until such Financing has been exhausted, and thereafter shall be 
from the Additional Financing.” 
 
Section 1.05. A provision is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) (i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement to read as follows: 
 
“; provided, however, that the commitment charge on the Additional Financing 
shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Amending Agreement.” 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 1.06. The word
 “Credit” referred to in Section 2.07 (a), (b) and (c) of the 
Development Credit Agreement is deleted and replaced with the words “Initial 
Financing”. 
 
Section 1.07. Section 2.08 of the Development Credit Agreement is renumbered 
as Section 2.09, and a new Section 2.08 is added, to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Additional 
Financing in semiannual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15, 
commencing July 15, 2015 and ending January 15, 2025. Each installment shall be five 
percent (5%) of such principal amount.  
 
Section 1.08.  Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to the Federation Project Agreement, and procurement of the goods and 
consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the RS 
Project Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the 
Association not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement 
Plan, for the Association’s approval.  Promptly following each approval by the 
Association of the updated Procurement Plan, the Borrower shall provide a copy of such 
update to each of the Entities.” 
 
Section 1.09.  Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the 
Credit) of the Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended as set forth in the 
Annex to this Agreement and paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 is amended by deleting 
subparagraphs (a) through (f) and renumbering subparagraphs (g) and (h) as (a) and (b) 
respectively. 
 
Section 1.10.  In Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, paragraphs  
1
(a) of Part A and Part B, respectively are amended to read as follows: 
 
“(a) 
 
Support to develop and implement options and mechanisms for 
expanding the contribution base for health  insurance and pensions and the coverage and 
portability of health care and pension benefits to farmers, self-employed and uninsured, 
and to determine liabilities and entitlements of these categories of insurance, through the 
provision of goods, consultants’ services and training.” 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 1.11.  In Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, paragraph  
1
(e) of Part A and Part B, respectively are amended to read as follows: 
 
“(e) 
 
Carrying out of an assessment of: (i) the options for medium 
term systemic reforms of pension systems; and (ii) the necessary preconditions for 
introduction of private pension funds, and support of a joint inter-entity pension reform 
working group to carry out this assessment, through the provision of consultants’ 
services, goods and training.” 
 
Section 1.12.  In Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, paragraphs 
(f) and (g) are added to paragraph 1 of Part A and Part B, respectively, to read as follows: 
 
“(f) 
 
Carrying out of external audits of cantonal health insurance 
funds, large hospitals, and other health providers, through the provision of consultants’ 
services and training. 
 
(g) 
 
Development of a legal and institutional framework for the 
establishment of a unified system of disability assessment through the provision of 
consultants’ services and goods.” 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 2.01.  This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that: 
 
(a) 
the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement and of an 
Agreement Amending the Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Association and an Entity; and 
 
(b) 
for the Entity referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 2.01, the 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement between the Entity and the Borrower has been amended to 
make available the portion of Additional Financing to said Entity as provided in this 
Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of 
this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing: 
 
(a) 
on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms; 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
that an Agreement Amending the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Entity concerned, and is legally binding upon the said Entity 
in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(c) 
that the Amendment to the Subsidiary Credit Agreement referred to in 
Section 2.01 (b) of this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower and said Entity in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance 
of the evidence required pursuant to Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless 
the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If this Amending 
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not 
been executed. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the City of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By 
 
Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
Page  8
-
7
-
Authorized 
Representative 
Page  9
-
8
-
ANNEX  
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
“1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Initial Financing and Additional Financing, the allocation of the amounts 
of the Initial Financing and Additional Financing to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of Financing Allocated 
 
(Expressed in SDR) 
 
Percentages of 
 
Additional Expenditures 
 Category
Initial Financing
Financing
to be Financed
A.  Part A of the Project
(the Federation
)
(1) 
Goods 
510,000              
156,000 
 
100%   
 
(2) 
Consultants’ 
1,910,000                612,000 
 
100% 
 Services, 
 
 
including audit 
    
 
(3) 
Training 
350,000 
         - 
 
100% 
 
(4) 
Incremental  
62,000          
 
25,000 
    100%  
 
 Operating 
Costs 
 
(5) Unallocated 
 
265,500
47,000
SUBTOTAL  
 
3,097,500
840,000
B.  Part B of the Project
(Republika Srpska)
(6) 
Goods  
350,000                104,000 
 
100%   
Page  10
-
9
-
Percentages of 
 
Additional Expenditures 
 Category
Initial Financing
Financing
To be Financed
(7) 
Consultants’  
1,280,000              
408,000 
 
100% 
 services 
 
 including 
audit 
 
 
(8) 
Training  
230,000 
        - 
 
100% 
 
(9) Incremental 
 
 
 
Operating Costs  
50,000                   15,000 
 
100% 
 
(10) 
Unallocated  
 192,500                  33,000 
 
SUBTOTAL  
2,102,500
560,000
TOTAL  
 5,200,000
1,400,000
