ISDS
THEWORLD BANK GROUP                                                  AWorld Frec oo Povorty cm
<S1lIfoS hop
World linkd
Report No AC9
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/12/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BOSNIA-HERZEGOVfNA                      Project ID: P07 1004
Project: Social fnsurance Technical Assistance Credit  Task Team Leader: Betty Hanan
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 20, 2003      IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 10, 2003                     IDA Amount ($m): 7.00
Managing Unit: ECS1HD                            Sector: Health (65%); Compulsory pension and
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  unemployment insurance (35%)
Status: Lending                                  Theme: Social risk mitigation (P); Health system
I performance (P)
l.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objectives of the proposed project would be to strengthen the effectiveness and efficiency of
health and pension insurance systems by provision of high quality technical assistance and training to
help implement existing reforms and to help design options for future social insurance reforms.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The objective of the project would be to strengthen the effectiveness and efficiency of health and
pension insurance systems by the provision of high quality technical assistance and training to help
implement existing reforms and to help design options for future social insurance reforms.
The project would provide technical assistance that would, inter alia, facilitate the learning
process of the institutions through problem solving exercises addressing three areas: (i) effective
implementation of health and pension-related reforms supported under the PFSAC lI; (ii) carry out an in
depth analysis of the key policy issues which affect health and pension insurance systems to develop
well-founded recommendation for future reforms; and (iii) technical assistance and limited investment
support to strengthen those aspects of EBFs operations that are likely to be part of their core mandate
whatever the policy framework within which they operate. Three components are proposed:
Project Component 1 - US$4.19 million
Developing Policy Framework for Social Insurance
This component will support effective implementation of health and pension-related reforms
supported under the PFSAC 11 and the development of the capacity of the relevant social sector ministries
and core social insurance institutions to formulate strategies and mechanisms to improve resource
mobilization and utilization while expanding insurance coverage. The technical assistance provided in



2
ISDS
this component will facilitate the problem solving process as interactive exercises with the counterparts.
Key features of this component are knowledge transfer and capacity building. Although it is not
envisaged that the project will support implementation of the options developed through this project, the
project will strengthen the institutional capacity of relevant institutions to help meet conditions under the
proposed EMSAC. The following five sub-components are envisaged:
(i) Expansion of Coverage and Portability of Health Care and Pension Benefits. A specific
and important aspect of the overall compliance problem is the regime for defining payroll tax liabilities
of the self-employed and farmers and enforcing the regime in a meaningful way. This is an issue that
confronts most ECA tax systems. There has been no serious attempt to date to clarify principles or to
implement a coherent system for these groups, which constitute a significant share of employment in the
country. Coverage of the uninsured has been handled for e.g., registered unemployed or pensioners,
through cross-flows of funds between different EBFs, which are neither transparent nor in many cases
sufficient. This is a characteristic problem of SFRY systems for which no common approach has been
agreed in BiH. For other groups, the situation is even less clear on financing responsibilities (e.g,
families of veterans), or the capacity to pay health insurance contributions is not sufficient in poorer
areas (e.g., by social assistance beneficiaries).
In the Federation, the institutional and financial basis for achieving Federal solidarity has only
recently been established. This is expected to reduce duplication of services and enable movement of
patients from one location to another to receive needed services where available. Federal Solidarity will
reduce the fragmentation of services between cantons and along ethnic lines.  However, there is
significant room for improvement because there are great differences between and within Entities. The
issue of enabling beneficiaries to move freely across ethnic, cantonal and Entity boundaries is an
important one for efficiency and equity of access. The related issue of developing mechanisms for funds
to flow across cantonal (and Entity) boundaries to pay for these patient flows, will also be addressed.
This sub-component will help develop options and mechanisms to more effectively include
farmers and the self-employed in the health and pension insurance systems. Particular emphasis will be
placed on identifying mechanisms to assure these groups have access to essential health services while
also assuring that they make the appropriate contributions. A second issue to be addressed under this
sub-component is the liability of social insurance contributions for all those who are exempt from making
their own contributions. This will involve a review of the categories of exemptions, entitlements for
those who are exempt and the mechanisms of financing contributions of those who qualify for
exemptions. Options to expand coverage and assure contribution payments for those who are exempt
from making their own contributions will include a detailed evaluation of the cost of providing each
category with access to essential health servidelprmining the appropriate balance between
individual contributions and possible contributions from the budgutd an assessment on HIF
revenues and expenditures of various options, keeping in mind fiscal constraints. The sub-component
will also help develop detailed mechanisms to ensure portability of pension and health insurance
benefits. In the health sector, this will involve defining administrative and financial mechanisms to
implement existing inter-Entity and inter-cantonal agreements that in principle allow for cross-border
flow of patients but in practice have failed to do so.
The sub-component will finance technical assistance, training, and office equipment to identify
options to expand the contribution base and to determine liabilities of farmers and the self-employed and
for more transparent and effective mechanisms for expanding social insurance coverage for the uninsured
and strengthen mechanisms for transportability of pension and health care benefits.  Further, the
sub-component would determine the appropriate balance between individual contributions and possible



3
ISDS
contributions from the budget.
(ii) Reporting, Control and Enforcement of Payroll Taxeileavy reporting burdens on
employers, who must deal with separate reporting, enforcement, and control procedures on different
payroll and other taxes have negative impacts on the efficiency of public revenue collection and
enforcement and on employers.
The sub-component will help to identify and implement mechanisms to consolidate the social
insurance revenue collection and enforcement system in a manner consistent with the broader directions
of tax administration reform. This will be supported by development of a clearer framework for systems
harmonization and data exchange across the various institutions involved in the reporting and
enforcement of taxes and social contributions, and/or responsible for expenditure execution and
monitoring of social insurance programs. A key objective will be to develop a reporting system that
allows for social contributions to be clearly recorded for the purposes of establishing individual
entitlements in the health and pensions systems. A second objective will be to reduce the reporting
burden on employers, while allowing for more effective control and enforcement of payroll tax
collection. Specifically, the technical assistance should assess the major problems with the current
system of collection, reporting, enforcement and control of contributions and individual taxes and then
help develop new mechanisms and procedures which will allow   for more effective collection,
enforcement and control of payroll tax obligations.
The sub-component will finance technical assistance, training, and office equipment to assist the
authorities to identify options for expanding the contribution base for health and pension insurance, and
to determine liabilities and entitlements of farmers and the self-employed. The investments will also
explore options for more transparent and effective mechanisms for expanding social insurance coverage
for the uninsured, and strengthening mechanisms for transportability of pension and health care benefits
throughout BiH. Further, the sub-component will help examine different options for a more appropriate
balance between individual contributions and possible contributions from the budget.
(iii) Risk-pooling and Rationalization of Service Provision. At present, the financing of social
insurance scores poorly on equity and efficiency. The extreme fragmentation of the insurance systems
makes the use of social insurance benefits highly inefficient across BiH. The system generally fails to
exploit economies of scale in delivery, financing and administration.
The extreme fragmentation of the health insurance health care provider systems makes the use of
social insurance benefits highly inefficient across BiH, particularly in the Federation. The system
generally fails to exploit economies of scale in delivery, financing and administration.  This
sub-component will help develop options to addiress two issues: (i) how the HIF risk pool could be
increased effectively, given the small size of currently existing HIF risk pools, and (ii) how the existing
network of health service facilities could be rationalized to allow for effective provision of health
services within given resource constraints. The former will result in specific proposals of how the
insurance risks for health care could be spread more evenly given political constraints. This wiAer
alia, include a review of the current responsibilities and functioning of the Federal Solidarity System to
determine steps to improve its ability to help assure access to basic health services by all residents of the
Federation. With respect to rationalization of service delivery, the sub-component will help carry out a
functional assessment and utilization review of the current provider network, with particular focus on
secondary and tertiary care, develop options to rationalize the provider network, produce a rough
estimate of possible efficiency gains, and produce detailed guidelines for the future development of
detailed facilities restructuring plans.



4
ISDS
The sub-component will finance technical assistance, training, and office equipment to identify
options for mitigating the consequences of low-risk pooling and for developing a master plan for
utilization of health services.
(iv) Contracting of Health Services. HIFs have introduced new capitation-based contracts with
family medicine teams in pilot areas. While imperfect, this is reflective of a wish to increase control over
public spending on health and increase quality of services. Hospital payment mechanisms remain
input-based and do not provide incentives for providers to reduce duplication of services or increase
efficiency and quality. Building on the experience with contracting of health services initiated under the
Basic Health Project (BHP), the sub-component will help develop and test a coherent system of
purchasing and paying for health services, including primary, secondary, and tertiary care. The new
system will be piloted in the same cantons/municipalities as the primary care contracting schemes now
piloted under the Basic Health Project and will help to develop a policy and implementation strategy for
future country wide introduction of the new purchasing mechanisms.  Within the framework of
developing contracts for the purchase of health services, the sub-component will help develop better
performance measures, such as provider output and quality indicators. It will also help establish a systeimn
to better determine and monitor costs of providing various health services.
The sub-component will finance technical assistance and training, to define, design, pilot test,
evaluate and plan for national roll out of a new provider payment system which harbors the incentives
necessary to improve effectiveness and efficiency.
(v) Medium Term Reform of Pension Policies. The pension reforms of 1998-2000 have had a
significant effect in stabilizing the financial position of the PlOs in both Entities. Nevertheless, fiscal
pressures remain strong and a more fundamental overhaul of the PAYG pillar is desirable in the
medium-term.
The sub-component will review options for medium-term systemic reforms of the pension
system, and assist the governments in design of the future system based on the preferred direction of
reform. The review will include examining options for reform of the PAYG system such as Gernan
points or NDC. In addition, the sub-component will assess the necessary preconditions for future
introduction of funded privately managed pensions in addition to the PAYG pillar, and the feasibility of
their medium-tern introduction in BiH. The sub-component will also provide assistance to examine the
appropriate role for the State level in the future system in light of new functions under the recent BiH
Law on Ministries, including coordination of inter-Entity pensions issues and conclusion of international
bilateral agreements on pensions.
The sub-component will finance consultancy services, limited equipment and training for these
activities on the entitlement side of the pension system.
Project Component 2 - US$3.92 million
Organizational Management
14.   The component will support: (a) development and refinement of overall strategic goals,
institutional mandates, and business planling in the health and pensions sectors. This will include
investments for strengthening the capability of staff within the organizations to carry out their policy and
service provision roles, and (b) effective execution of activities under the Policy Framework Component,
along with effective implementation of already approved health and pension reforms under PFSAC 11.
Specific activities will include support to strengthen overall strategic goals development; business and



5
ISDS
financial planning for health and pension funds and line ministries; development of human resources
planning and management functions; development of public communications capacities related to health
and pension reforms; approaches for standardizing and improving customer service standards in health
and pension services; and developing new approaches to improve the effectiveness of stakeholder and
community involvement in the development of health and pension policies and priorities. Public
consultation particularly with the most vulnerablgroups, are of critical importance if the social
insurance system is to effectively serve all population groups. The project will help build capacity to
undertake consultations and communicate with the public.
In addition, the project will help strengthen the information technology (IT) capacity of the
beneficiary institutions to: (i) harmonize data systems across social institutions through the development
and establishment of data and technology standards; (ii) strengthen the IT support capacity of the
institutions through technology training, and minor upgrading of equipment and data communications
networks to enable data sharing and to form the basis for implementing harmonized data systems with
increased data/information flow among institutions; and (iii) establish key indicator data for all
institutions to support policy formulation and monitor program implementation in a timely and effective
manner.
The component will finance technical assistance and generic training on good management
practices. Emphasis would be on communications, information technology, and exposure to good
practice through training and study tours, regionally and internationally, in policy and administrative
reforms in the pensions and health sectors. This component will also enhance the technical and
management skills of staff in the Ministries of Health, Ministries of Labor, Pension and Health Insurance
Funds, Tax Administrations, and Ministry of Civil Affairs. When developing communication systems,
consideration will be given to the current and future role of public health institutes in the process of
information collection, systems monitoring, analysis, policy research, and policy advice as part of the
"public sector management" facet of institutional strengthening.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.10 million
Project Implementation Support
The Entity level Ministries of Health, Ministries of Labor, Pension Funds, Health Insurance
Funds, Tax Administrations, and the Ministry of Civil Affairs will be the implementing agencies for the
Project. Because of the institutional capacity already developed by the MOH Project Management Unit
(PMU) in the Federation and the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in RS, both units will be responsible
for project coordination. The PMU and PCU will be supported by a Project Steering Committee
comprising high level officials from each of the implementing agencies and the Entity level Ministries of
Finance, to oversee project implementation and to help address complex issues that may arise during
project implementation that can not be resolved at the individual institution level. The Committee would
meet on a quarterly basis or more frequently if the need arises. In addition to coordination, the
PCU/PMU will be responsible for implementation functions such as project accounting, procurement,
and disbursements. The coordination units will also be responsible for consolidation of quarterly and
annual progress management reports (PMRs), annual work programs, and budgets prepared by each
implementing agency, and for updating of procurement plans. The coordination units will also provide
training and technical assistance coordination, and project supervision and monitoring. More details on
responsibilities of the Coordination Units is included in the Technical Annex.
The PCU Director and the PMU General Manager will continue to report to the Ministers of
Health of each Entity. They will be supported by Assistant Project Coordinators already recruited with
PHIRD funding. Each executing agency has appointed Focal Points to be responsible for implementation



6
ISDS
of project components in each of the institutions Implementing agencies will be the direct beneficiaries
of the technical assistance and the training to be provided under the project. This approach moves a step
further towards relying on line agencies rather than Coordination Units for project implementation
compared to earlier operations in the social sectors. The PMU and PCU will continue to interact with
other governmental and international/bilateral organizations providing support to the sector to help
ensure complementarity rather than duplicative efforts. Apart from the consultants recruited under the
PHRD grant in the PCU and the PMU involved in project design/preparation, it is expected that initially
no additional staff for procurement, financial management/disbursement would be required in either
coordination unit for the additional tasks required under SITAP. Once the Basic Health Credit closes,
however, SITAP will need to assume responsibility for financing of procurement and financial
management staff. A Financial Management System (FMS) functioning well under other Bank-financed
projects will be adapted for the project. The component will finance local technical assistance, limited
computer and office equipment, training of staff, and incremental operating costs.
Components:
Developing Policy Framework for Social Insurance
Organizational Managerment
Project Implementation Support
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments. There is no physical construction activity associated with any of the project components.
Therefore, it is rated as Environmental Category "C".
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                             0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 0 Yes * No
involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                  0 Yes 0 No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues Pleasefill in all relevant questions If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data,
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and



7
isos
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Technical Assistance - no safeguard issues identified.
l.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Not applicable.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Not applicabale.
Il.D.2. In light of I, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Not applicable.
ll.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Not applicable.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
During the January/February 2002 mission, the Bank's team participated in a State Health Workshop
where all the international and bilateral organizations and local associations working on the social sectors
participated to share information on ongoing activities and future plans. At that workshop SITAC project
plans were announced and dialogue with related organizations was initiated. As part of preparation of
the project, there has been intensive discussions with a wide range of stakeholders in and outside the
government. In particular, there have been a number of workshops during the September and November
2002 missions. The participants actively contributed to identifying the main areas where technical
support and institutional strengthening was needed in both Entities. The SITAC has been designed to
response to the needs identified. In addition, staff surveys were carried out in all the participating'
institutions aiming at identifying institutional weaknesses and strengths of staff and seeking their views
on strategic directions to be pursued in the years ahead. The project will also finance client/beneficiary
surveys throughout project life on both health and pension sides.
E. Safeguards Classifilcation Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
L  Si. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. -No safeguard issues
[ ; SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessmenl/Analysis/Management Plan.           Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop



8
ISDS
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action PlanJFramework:                           Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan.                                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                   Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by        Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Betty Hanan                                   July 31, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                   Name                                         Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Jane E. Holt                               August 20, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:       Armin H. Fidler                              July 31, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
E          _ 3 ZIIZ FEEDBACK   Srrh MAP       SHOWCASE



