                                          Documentof
                                       The World Bank

                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                         ReportNO:32335-BA




                  I ~ T E ~ A T I O N A LE ~ L O P ASSOCIATION
                                         ~                   ~ N T

           PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING OF SDR 1.40 MILLION

                             (USS2.0 MILLIONEQUIVAL,ENT)

                                               TO

                               BOSNIAAND HERZEGOVINA

                                           FORTHE

             SOCIALINSURANCETECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT

                                       PROJECTPAPER




                                           June 1,2005




HumanDevelopmentSector Unit
SouthEastEuropeCountryUnit
Europeand CentralAsia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization,

                                  CURRF"Y EQUIVALENTS
                               (Exchange Rate Effective May 23,2005)

                              Currency Unit=Konvertible Marks (KMJ
                                       KM1.OO = U5$0.6466
                                      US$l,00=KM1.3466
                                       1XDR= 1.51209 US%

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                      January 1 December31
                                               -

                              A g g R ~ ~ A T I ~ANDSACRONYMS
                                                     N




BiH  3osnia and Herzegovina                       MSP        MinistryofLabor andSocial Policy(FBH)
CAS  Country Assistance Strategy                  MOF        Ministry ofFinance
CEE  Central andEastemEurope                        MS       Marginally Satisfactory
CFAA Country Financial Accountability Assessment    OHR       Office ofthe HighRepresentative
DFID Departmentfor International Development        PAYG      Pay-As-You-Go
E3F  Extra Budgetary Fund                           PCU       Project CoordinationUnit
ECA  Europeand Central Asia                         PFSACII Public Fhance SectorAdjustment Credit I1
EDSs Economic Development Strategy                  PIU       Project ImplementationUnit
FBH  FederationofBosnia andHerzegovina              QAG       Quality AssuranceGroup
FHIF FederationHealth InsuranceFund                 ff        Project Paper
PI0  Pensionand Invalid Institute                   RS        Republika Srpska
FMS  Financial ManagementSystem                     SC        SteeringCommittee
FMOH FederationMinistryofHealth                     SDR       SpecialDrawingRights
HSEP Health SectorEnhancementProject                SFRY      Socialist FederalRepublic o f Yugoslavia
HIF  Health InsuranceFund                           SITAP     Social. hsurance Technical AssistanceProject
IDA  International DevelopmentAssociation           SOSAC     Social SectorAdjustment Credit
MCA  MinistryofCivilAffairs                         SOTAC     Social SectorTechnical AssistanceCredit
MHSW MinistryofHealth and Social Welfare (RS)       UK        UnitedKingdom
                                                    USAID     UnitedStates Agency for International Devel.




                              Vice President:          Shigeo Katzu
                           Country Director:      Ij   Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                             Sector Manager:      1    Arnin H.Fidler
                          Task TeamLeader:        1    Betty Hanan

                                     BOSNIAAND HERZEGOVINA
                    SOCIAL INSifRANCETECH'NICALASSISTANCE PROJECT


  Date: June 1,2005                               Team Leader: Betty Hanan
   Country Director: OrsaliaKalantzopoulos        Sectors: Health((;S%/b>, Compulsorypensionand
                                                  unemploymentinsurance(35%)
   Sector ~ a n a g e r ~ ~ r e c hoir ~n Fidler
                                  t               Themes: Social riskmitigation(P), Healthsystem
                                                  Performance(PI
   Project XI): PO95596                           Environmentalscreening category: Not

   Lending Instrument: TechnicalAssistance        Safeguardscreeningcategory: No impact
   Credit (TAC)


   Responsible Agencies:
   State: Ministryof Civil Affairs
   Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (FBI): MinistryofHealth; Ministryof Labor and
   SocialPolicy; Ministry for Issuesof Veterans andDisabledVeterans ofthe D~fensiye-Lib~rati~n
   War; HealthInsuranceandReinsuranceInstitute; PensionandDisability InsuranceInstitute; and
   Tax Administration.
   Republika Srpska (TIS): Ministry of Health andSocialWelfare; Ministryof Labor and
   Veterans-Invalids' Protection; HealthInsuranceFund; Pensions andDisabilityInsuranceFund;
   andTax ~ d m ~ s ~ a t ~ o n .

   Implementingagencies:
   FederationMinistryof Health                    MinistryofHealthandSocial Welfare ofRS
   ProjectImplementationUnit                      ProjectCoordinationUnit
   Trg heroja 14                                  KraljaPetraIKaradjordjevica 133
   71000 Sarajevo                                 78000 3m.a Luka
   BosniaandHerzegovina                           BosniaandHerzegovina
   Tel: 387-33- 203-477                           Tel: 387-51-319-1S I
   Fax: 387-33-203478                             Fax: 387-5 1-31c)-l68
   E-mail:EIfrp@,Bifi.Net.3a                      E-mail: moh.~cu~,~lic.net


  FY            2006       2007       2008
  4nnual          0.4        0.9       0.7
  Cumulative      0.4         1.3      2.0




This document hasa restricted distributionandmay be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

Revised project development obje~tives/outco~es~
Consistentwiththe original project, the developmentobjectives remainunchanged: to strengthen
the effectiveness and efficiency o f health and pension insurance systems by provision of high
quality technical assistance and training to help implement existing reforms and to help design
options for future social insurance reforms.




For Loan~/Credits/Grants:
    Total Bankfinancing (US$m>:2.00




                                                ...
                                                111

                                  SOSNLAAND HFXZEGOVXNA
                                       PROJECTPAfER
                                            FORTHE
                SOCIALF N S U C E TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROjECT


1.      Introduction

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the ExecutiveDirectors to provide an additional
credit in the mount o f SDR 1,40 million (US$:! million equivalent) to the Bosnia and
Herzegovina Social InsuranceTechnical Assistance Project (PO71004), Credit 3778-3OS.

2.      The additional credit would finance scaled-up activities that would enhance the
impact o fthe project. The additional activities would contribute to efforts to contain growing
expenditures for the social insurance systems while helping to strengthen govemance and
institutional capacity to design and implement institutional, policy, and financing reforms in
the social insurance systems. Inparticular, the additional financing will enable the provision
of technical assistance needed to: (i)perfbrm external audits o f cantonal level health
insurance funds, large hospitals and other health providers inboth Entities, (ii)    develop the
legal and institutional framework for the establishment o f a unified system o f disability
assessment for all categories o f beneficiaries, and (iii) support the joint inter-entity pension
reform working group.         These activities would contribute to M e r strengthening the
effectiveness and efficiency o fthe health andpension insurance systems.

3,      The Project is beingcofinanced bythe UKDepartment for International Development
(DFID), which is contributingUS$1-73millionequivalent towards the financing oftechnical
assistance and training or 18% of the original total project costs. The project complements
activities supporting the modernization ofthe Treasury financed byUSAID.

2.      Backgroundand Rationaleor AdditionalFinancing

4.      U r i ~project~design. The original credit was for SDR 5.2 million(iJS$7 million
                    i ~       ~
equivalent). The project was approved on June 10, 2003 and the credit became effective on
October 3, 2003. The objective o f the project, which will remain unchanged with the
additional activities, i s to strengthen the effectiveness and efficiency o f health and pension
insurance systems by the provision of high quality technical assistance and training to help
implement existing reforms and to help design options for future social insurance reforms.
The project is providing technical assistance that is, inter alia, facilitating the learning
process o f the institutions through problem solving. It addresses three areas: (i)      effective
implementation of health and pension-related reforms supported under the Public Finance
Sector Adjustment Credit (PFSAC 11); (ii)      an in depth analysis of key policy issues which
affect health and pension insurance systems to develop well-founded recommendations for
future reforms; and (iii)   technical assistance and limited investment support to strengthen
those aspects of External3udgetary Funds(EBF) operations that are likely to be part of their
core mandate, in whichever policy framework they operate.              The project is also: (i)
supportingthe overhaul of the PAYG pension system inthe medium- term and assessingthe


                                                1

preconditions for further institutional, parametric and systemic changes and (ii)    promoting
the harmonization of health and pension policy frameworks between the two entities. There
have beenno changes inthe design o fthe project or the project development objectives.

5        Project~      ~     ~to date. Progressrwith implementation o f most sub-components
                                   ~     u            ~      #      ~    ~      ~
  ~

i s satisfactory. Eight major contracts are under full implementation and three others are at
the contractual signing stage. O fthe eight, three have been fully implemented or are about to
be completed.       The last supervision mission (March 2005) downgraded the project
performance to Marginally Satisfactory (MS) to reflect problems developed with the
implementation of one sub-component. These problems are being addressed, Troubles in
this sub-component are not expected to affect the success o f proposed scaled-up activities.
The additional activities would contribute to efforts to contain growing expenditures for the
social insurance systems while helping to strengthen govemance and institutional capacity.
In terms of development objectives and related outcomes, the project is performing well,
Efforts are beingdisplayed by both implementing agencies and contractors to work together
to ensure institutionalbuildingunder the project. Training under each o fthe sub-components
i s takingplace through a number o fw~rkshops/coursesandthrough formal courses and study
tours. The in-country training as well as foreign training i s helping improve the efficiency of
health and insurance systems. As of May 19, 2005, USg1.52 million has been disbursed
from the IDA Credit andUS$0.50million from the DFIDgrant. Disbursements are expected
to accelerate in the coming weeks with payments under ongoing and new contracts. (For
more informationonproject performance and institutionalarrangements, pleaserefer to paras
18-19).

6.       ~     ~    ~the # d ~~ i ~t ~ ~o ~oThe additional~financingirequest i.s a result of
                         u                         ~ ~r ~ ~         ~ ~     ~ g
an intensive and productive dialogue inthe social sectors where the Bank enjoys a strong
relationship with the governments. The Bank has financed over 10 operations inthe social
sectors since the conflict,    Implementation performance o f these operations has been
consistently satisfactory.    SITAP was among nine projects (out o f 130) rated highly
satisfactory by the Quality Assessment Group (QAG) in its evaluation o f September 2004.
The QAG evaluation rated the project highly satisfactory for focus on development
eEectiveness and supervision inputs and processes. The activities proposed under the
additional financing have been under active discussion withthe governments duringthe past
several months.     Recent audit reports indicate problems in financial management and
accountability inthe social insurance system. The request comes from the highest levels of
government, i.e. Entity Prime Ministers and Ministers o f Health. The additional activities
would contribute to efforts to contain growing expenditures for the social insurance systems
while helping to strengthen govemance and institutional capacity to design and implement
institutional, policy, and financing reforms in the social insurance system. In addition, in
addressing financial management issues, they will build sustainable financial management
capacity and improve transparency. At the request o f the Govement, the Bank has
approached several. donors to explore options or financing of these activities, However,
these efforts havenot been successful.

7.       Consistent with the Government and the Bank's sector policy and strategies, the
objective of the additional financing is to scale-up activities through the provision of



                                              2

technical assistance to: (i)perform extemal audits of cantonal level health insurance funds,
large hospitals and other health providers in both Entities, (ii)develop the legal and
institutional framework for the establishment of a unified system o f disability assessment,
and(iii)support thejoint inter-entity pensionreformworking group. These activities would
contribute to ibrther strengthening the effectiveness and efficiency o f the health and social
insurance systems, A description o fthe additional activities to beundertakenfollows:

Audit of CantonalHIFs,LargeHospitalsandhealthproviders

8.       As other countries in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE), Bosnia and Herzegovina
(BiH) follows the health insurance model whereby employers and employees contribute to
publicly-managed funds that finance the bulk o f health care provision. Health financing
relies heavily on payroll taxation and the collection capacity o f tax authorities. In both
Entities, the main source of health care financing is the Health Insurance Funds (HIFs),
which derive the majority (75-80 percent) of their resources from wage taxes. Public sector
expenditures on health amount to 7.6 percent o f GDP, which is significantly above CEE
average and the second highest figures in the ECA region after Croatia. In addition, it is
estimated that out o f pocket expenditures amount to another 4.7 percent of GDP, though
private expenditures are not captured effectively, as much o f these expenditures are done in
the form of informal payments, rather thaneo-payments.

region -The
9,           current contribution rate for formal employees is one o f the highest in the ECA
          18 percent of gross salary in the Federation and 15 percent of net salary in RS,
Compliance rates are relatively low, leading to a situation where the public sector i s the main
contributor to health insurance. The system has a rather non-transparent flow of funds
among various extra-budgetary funds, which are supposedto make contributions on behalfof
their   beneficiaries (pensioners, registered unemployed)         and limited Govement
contributions on behalf o f some o f those who are exempt from making contributions. A
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for BiHwas carried out in2001. The
CFAA identifiedsystemic and structural weaknesses inpublic sector budgeting, accounting,
reporting, and auditing. Although there have been several positive developments inthe past
years, most notably, implementation of a fully automated treasury system across all the
Cantons inthe Federation and all the regions in RS, recent audit reports indicate numerous
problems infinancial management and accountability inthe health sector ingeneralandHIFs
inparticular. All this contributes to growthinexpenditures, inequities, constitute a limiting
factor for the competitiveness o f formal sector enterprises, encourage the proliferationof the
informal sector, andundermine the sustainability o fthe social insurance system. Overall, the
burden of the health sector on the economy is substantial and from a macro-economic
perspective, containing the growth ofhealthexpenditures is essential.

10.     To help tackle these issues and to build sustainable financial management capacity in
the health sector, the Bank-financed Health Sector Enhancement Project (HSEP) includes
funding to strengthen auditing and financial management and to conduct audits of Entity
level health insurance funds andtwo largehospitals ineach Entity. Duringthe processingo f
HSEP, the Entity Ministries o f Health requested Bank assistance to mobilize additional
resources to undertake similar work at the level ofthe cantonal health insurance funds and



                                              3

the largest health care providers in both Entities. The proposed additional financing will
provide technical assistance to cany out accounting and internal control reviews of cantonal
health insurance funds and the largest hospitals and other health providers in both Entities.
This will result inclear steps to improve transparency and accountability inthe management
o f resources.     The outcome of this review will, inter alia, include as a first step the
development o f an Action Plan. A second step will be to overhaul and strengthen the
financial management systems (FMS) of the HIFs by beginning the implementation of the
agreed Plan. The third stage in this process would be to evaluate the effectiveness of the
implementation o f the Plan on the operations of WIFs and major hospitals and then take
appropriate measuresto addressthe gaps.

Developmentof the legaland institutionalframeworkor the establishmentof a unified
system of disabilityassessment

11.     Disability programs in BiH include cash and in-kind benefits, as well as services.
The program mix comprises: (i)social insurance benefits under pension and invalid
insurance; (ii)  programs and benefits for disabled war veterans; (iii) for civil victims
                                                                         benefits
o f war; and (iv) benefits for children and adults with disabilities, As a result of the war, the
total proportion o f persons with disabilities is higher in BiH than in any other country in
Europe. Overall, about one out o f every 10 potential workers has a disability. Despite this,
the system for assessing disability is outdated and implemented in an. inconsistent manner
across programs and across areas of each Entity. There i s also considerable anecdotal
evidence o f abuses inthe system, with informal payments made to doctors that conduct the
assessment, considered to be a common practice. The result is a series o f disability programs
which consume significant resources, but continue to include unjustified beneficiaries and
may exclude deserving claimants,

12.      Initial technical assistance on disability assessment reforms was provided under the
Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit (SOTAC) as well as part o f SOSAC 11preparation.
The analysis of disability policy and programs supported under SOTAC showed that the
current system of disability assessment is ill-suitedto deal with the disability challenges that
Bosnia and Herzegovina faces today. The technical assistance recommended the
development o f new disability assessment rulebooks as well as the consolidation o f disability
assessment for adults in one institution. The development o f new disability rulebooks are
part of the core reform program supportedby SOSAC II.

13.      The support inthis areawould focus onthe development of the institutionalandlegal
framework for a unified system o f disability assessment, This would include support for: (i)
the establishment of a central institution responsible for the assessment o f disability for all
beneficiaries irrespective o f their status &e. civilians, civilian victims o f war, war veterans),
(ii) developmentofbusinessprocesses,(iii) definitionoftheorganizationalstructure
    the                                             the
o f the new institution, (iv) the preparation of new disability rulebooks that would be
applicable to all categories of beneficiaries. Since they are at an advanced stage, the audits
currently beingperformedunder the Veterans Law shall be completed inaccordance withthe
current rulebooks. However, upon the development o fthe new system, and enactmentofthe
new rulebooks, the legal framework will be amended to allow another audit of all individual



                                               4

decisions on the level of disability to be undertakenby the newly established institution. In
addition, technical assistance under this activity would support the development of a
Disability Policy Strategy Note to promote the development o f a modem system of
protectiono f disabled people.

Supportto the Inter-EntityPensionReformWorkingGroup

14.     While many countries in Europe and Central Asia (ECA) experienced significant
deterioration intheir contributor base during the 199Os, inonly a few cases was the decline
as dramatic as in BiH, Even inthe absence of the conflict, BiH's pension contribution base
would most probably have deteriorated significantly, resultingina financial crisis. However,
this process was accelerated by the war, which prematurely ended the financial viability of
the pre-war scheme. Overall, the ratio o f pensioners to contributors hadreached 1:1..3 by the
end of the conflict, with only a marginalimprovement to 1:1.4 inthe FBHsince then. InRS
the situation is worse, with each contributing worker supporting more than one pensioner
(1.08: 1). As a result, even highpayroll taxes andbudget transfers inRS produce an average
pensionthat is less than 30 percent of income per capita. Incontrast, a somewhat better ratio
of pensioners to contributors in the FBH allows for much higher absolute and relative
pensionlevels, eventhough the pension spendingto GDPratio is lower,

15.     In response to the ongoing financial imbalances in the pension systems of both
Entities, more dramatic action was taken in 2000. The Office o f the High Representative
(OHR) imposed a strict cashrationingsystemon bothEntitypensionfunds, whereby pension
benefits in any month are only fmanced from contribution revenues inthe previous month,
plus legally mandated budgetary transfers for specific groups of privileged pensioners.
Pension levels are controlled by use o f a coefficient that, if necessary, lowers paid pension
levels to a percentage o f legal entitlement, with the coefficient a function o f prior month
pensioncontribution revenues. As intended, the policy of introduction o f cashrationinghas
precludedthe accumulation o f firther systemic arrears. By late 2002, the system appearedto
have stabilized, with monthly pensions paid with a full coefficient, and the stock of arrears
have declined.

16,     The combination of the Socialist Federal Republic o f Yugoslavia (SFRY) inheritance
andpost-war developments has resulted ina range of institutionalissues inthe BiHpensions
systems that are inneed o f attention, These relate to the operation o f existingEntity systems,
relations between Entity systems, and the evolving role o f the State level in the hture
system. With respect to the operations ofthe current Entitypension systems, the attemptsof
both Pension Funds to control expenditure management in the face o f fluctuating revenues
have meant that their institutional focus has been very short-term, with little or no strategic
planning. This is not simply a product of the conflict, Pension funds throughout SFRY
countries typically exhibit outmoded managerial structures and practices, weak and non-
transparent business processes and internal controls, including uncertain data security. In
addition to intra-Entity institutional issues, there remain serious coordination problems
betweenthe two Pension Funds, These contribute to ongoingproblems with recognition and
payment of pensions for people moving between Entities, either during their working life or
once they are receiving pensions, Even in cases where the payment liability is undisputed,



                                             5

there is no linking or compatibility of IT systems to allow basic data exchange between the
Funds.

17.    There are also outstanding policy issues in the pensions system on the entitlements
side.  Pensions' policy and a~inistrationofficials and pensioners themselves view the
current cash rationingsystem as very muchan interimarrangement, and see a strong needfor
systemic refom, Inrecognition of the importance of coordinated policies, which ensure the
harmonious operation o f the Entities' pension systems to create preconditions for a future
pensionreform.that may eventually leadto the establishment of a unified, State-level pension
provision, the three Prime Ministers have agreed to form an Inter-Entity Pension Policy
Working Group, The responsibility ofthe Working Group i s to: (a) providepolicy advice to
the Entity Prime Ministers regarding the legal and technical requirements to harmonize
pension policies and pension legislation across the Entities, institutional cooperation in the
fields of pension provisions and pension contribution collection, and international social
security agreements and (b) formulate a Joint Pension Policy explaining the agreed social
policy goals and operating principles of a future pension system, the method of assessing
benefits based on past and future contribution histories and the methods and timeframe of
harmonizing pension contribution and pension assessment d e s , which are core SOSAC I1
second tranche measures. The Working Group i s to meet every two weeks with the meeting
place alternating between Sarajevo and Banja Luka. The Bank was requested to assist the
Working Group through the provisionoftechnical advice on pensionsystem relatedmatters.

3.     ProposedChanges

18,    The proposed activities will not change the overall project development objectives
(DO); the DO will remain unchanged. The proposed activities will complement those
already underway and will further strengthen the efficiency and effectiveness of the health
and social insurance systems. The institutionalarrangements, which are working well
under the original project, will be the same (see paras 22-23). Each implementingagency
has Focal, Points responsible for overall coordination of implementation in their respective
minis~/agency.The project is supported by a Project Steering Committee (SC) comprising
high level officials from each o f the implementingagencies andthe Entity level Ministries o f
Finance. The objective of the SC is to oversee project implementation and to help address
complex issues that arise during project implementation that c m o t be resolved at the
individual institution level, Tfie SC also acts as an important policy discussion forum so that
the views andconcerns of the implementingagencies are reflected inpolicy development.

19.    Additional activities will commence immediately after hnding becomes available.
Therewillbe no changes inthe closing date andimplementation schedule.

4.     Consistencywith the CAS

20,    The proposed additional activities are fully consistent with the CAS discussed at the
Boardin September 2004. Under the third pillar of the CAS - investingin key social and
economic infrastructure, one of the key objectives and expected outcomes is improved social
sector management. An additional objective of the CAS is to continue to strengthen

institutions and governance. The additional activities would contribute to efforts to contain
growing expenditures for the social insurance systems while helping to strengthen
governance and institutional capacity to design and implement institutional, policy, and
financing reforms in the health and pensions sectors. This would contribute to improved
transparency in management of key public expenditures and programs, Overall support for
these objectives should contribute to the overarching CAS goal ofpoverty alleviation.

5.       Appraisalof Scaled-upProjectActivities

21.      There are limited foreseen institutional risks with the proposed activities,       The
implementingagencies for the additional activities will be the same as those for the original
project: (i> Entity level Ministries o f Health, (ii) level Ministries o f Labor, (iii>
            the                                       Entity                                 the
Pension Funds, (iv> Entity level Health Insurance Funds, (v>Tax Adminis~ations,and (vi)
the Ministry o f Civil Affairs. The implementing agencies are the direct beneficiaries of
technical assistance, training, and goods supported under the original project and to be
supportedunder the additional financing.

22,      As with the original project, the fiduciary tasks of procurement and financial
managementwill be carried out by the existing Project Coordination Unitinthe RS Ministry
of Health and Social Welfare andthe Project Implementation Unit inthe Federation Ministry
of Health, 30th Units have considerable experience with Bank-financed projects and are
integral part of both Ministries o f Health. Procurementand FinancialManagementunder
the project work well and have consistently been rated Satisfactory. A large number o f
procurement packages have been processed. The quality and accuracy o f d o c ~ e n ~ t i isn  o
generally good. Procurement i s carried outjointly by the two Entities interms ofpreparation
of TOR, tendering, evaluation of proposals, negotiations. Joint tendering for all of the
packages under SITAP is ensuring consistency o f approach and strategic direction, and
harmonization of issues being addressed under the project.          Project audits have been
conducted on a timely manner and the audits have been consistently unqualified. The
Coordination Units are also responsible for consolidating quarterly and annual progress
management reports and annual work programs and budgetsprepared by each implementing
agency. Project reporting is also working well. All reports, annual work programs and
budgetsare submitted inatimely andeffective manner.

23.      The proposed activities will not alter the environmental category o f the project (C>or
trigger any new safeguardpolicies. The scale-up would not involve any exceptions to Bank
policies.

6.       ExpectedOutcomes

24.      New activities will contribute to meeting development objectives and outcomes. The
following includes the additional outcomes to be expected ram the new activities:




                                              7

                     Output                                    Output Indicator                   DataCollection
                                                                                                      Strategy
Audits ofthe cantonal HIFs and large              Number ofcantonal HIFsand                1 Audit reports
hospitals completed andproposal for               large hospitals where audit was
accounting standards developed with               completed
proposed regulation on internal controls
New disability assessment system inplace          New unifiedsystem established and           Reports from
                                                  legal framework, including amendments       institution for
                                                  ofthe laws and the preparation and          disability
                                                  enactment ofthe new rulebooks,              assessment
                                                  completed and assessments conducted
Joint pension reform strategy developed           WG meetingregularly                         Regularprogress
                                                  Draft strategy completed and submittecf reports and draft
                                                  the Prime Ministers                       j strategy

7.       BenefitsandRisks

25,      There are several anticipated benefits associated with the project, including the
additional activities proposed. First, with more professionally trained management staff in
the health and social protection institutions, the leadership o f those institutions should be
better equipped to plan and direct the activities of the institutions to fulfill the social
obligations to their clients. Better planning and improved strategic direction in both health
and social protection systems would be enhanced thereby improving the systems'
responsiveness to patients, pensioners and enterprises. Improved financial data, reporting
and revenue collections for social contributions would improve solvency for HIFs and the
PFs thereby increasing health and pension resources benefiting patients, pensioners and,
indirectly, enterprises.

26,      The additional activities mightencounter the following risks:

                                                                                                                -
                       Risk                        Risk                      Risk MitigationMeasure
                                                   Rating
                                                              EntityGovernments commitment to the audits
                                                              would mitigate the risk.
Resistanceto the development ofthe new,                       EntityGovernments commitment to speedupthe
unified system for disability assessmentby                    activities on the establishment of the new system,
existing institutions participating inthe

Resistanceto the inter-Entity cooperation                     The endorsement of the Inter-Entity Pension
on pension issuesundermines the Inter-                        Reform Working Group (WG) with clear TOR for
Entity Pension Reform Working Group's                         its work by three Prime Ministers and Bank's techmi
progress inthe development ofthejoint                         support to the work ofthe WG would mitigate the ri
pensionreform strategy.
Risk Rating-H (High Risk), S (SubstantialRisk), M (Modest Ri!

8.       FinancialTerms and Conditionsfor theAdditionalFinancing

27.      Financial terms and conditions for the additional financing will remainunchanged.



                                                          8

9.      Allocation of Proceedsof AdditionalFinancing


                AllocationofProceedsofAdditionalFinancingtoy Category
                                  (In US$ equivalent *)


(1)Goods                                             390,000
(2) Consultant Servicesincludingaudit              1,500,000
(3) Training                                                0
(4) Incremental OperatingCosts                         60,000
(5) Unallocated                                        50,000
                                TOTAL              2,000,000


* Amounts  havebeenroundedto the nearest thousand.




                                            9


