Page  1
CREDIT NUMBER 3778-1 BOS 
 
Agreement Amending 
RS Project Agreement 
 
(Social Insurance Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA 
 
Dated                                        , 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3778-1 BOS 
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
RS PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated                                     , 2005 between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and REPUBLIKA SRPSKA 
(Republika Srpska).  
 
WHEREAS (A) BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) and the 
Association have entered into a Development Credit Agreement (Social Insurance 
Technical Assistance Project) dated July 7, 2003 (the Development Credit Agreement) 
for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement (the Project); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has made available a portion of the proceeds to Republika 
Srpska and entered into a Subsidiary Credit Agreement (the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement) for that purpose; 
 
(C) 
the Association and Republika Srpska entered into a Project Agreement 
dated July 7, 2003 (the Project Agreement) for the purpose of carrying out Part B of the 
Project; 
 
(D) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance in support of the Project by increasing the amount made available under the 
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,400,000);  
 
(E) 
by the Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement dated 
July 7, 2003, between Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an additional amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 1,400,000) (the Additional Financing), on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the aforementioned Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS 
Republika Srpska in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
the Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has 
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
Amendments to the Project Agreement 
 
Section 1.01.  Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement will be amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the 
Association not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement 
Plan, for the Association’s approval. Promptly following each approval by the 
Association of the updated Procurement Plan, the Borrower shall provide a copy of such 
update to each of the Entities. 
 
Section 1.02.  Schedule 2 (Procurement) of the Project Agreement will be 
amended as follows: 
 
“SCHEDULE 2 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The 
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for 
domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Borrower.  To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid 
packages suitable for competitive bidding. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. Shopping.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
2. Direct 
Contracting.
Goods which the Association agrees meet the requirements 
for Direct Contracting, and which are of a proprietary nature and cost less than $30,000 
equivalent in the aggregate, may
,
with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of said procurement method. 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection.
Services for Project audits starting the second year of 
Project implementation, and which the Association agrees meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for Project audits up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $50,000 in circumstances which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.10 
of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, with the Association's 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 
3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  5
-
4
-
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, contracts for tasks under Part 
A.3 and part B.3 of the Project may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source 
basis, subject to prior approval of the Association. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for goods procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding or Direct 
Contracting; (b) the first two contracts for goods procured on the basis of Shopping; (c) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000
 
or more; (d) each contract provided by an individual consultant procured on 
a
sole source basis or estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (e) the first 
two contracts for consultants’ services provided by a firm procured on the basis of 
Consultants’ Qualifications.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association”. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 2.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the later of:  
the date upon which the Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement 
becomes effective or the date when this Agreement Amending the Project Agreement has 
been executed by the parties hereto. 
Page  6
-
5
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement Amending the RS Project 
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the City of Sarajevo, Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA 
 
By  
Authorized Representative 
 
