Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
July 7, 2003 
 
H.E. Ljerka Maric 
Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH 
Trg Bih 1 
71000 Satajevo 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 
Re: United Kingdom Grant for Co-financing of the Social Insurance  
 
Technical Assistance Project Grant Number TF052086                
Your Excellency: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate 
IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland to make a grant in an amount not exceeding one million seventy eight thousand 
pounds sterling (GBP1,078,000) (the Grant) to Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is IDA’s policy to make publicly available this Letter Agreement and 
any information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become effective and the 
Recipient has given its consent to such disclosure.  The Recipient, by countersigning this Letter 
Agreement, confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Following receipt by IDA 
of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become 
effective once the Development Credit Agreement (Credit Number 3779 BOS) of even date 
herewith between Bosnia and Herzegovina and IDA will have been declared effective. 
 
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Joseph Ingram 
Country Manager for Bosnia and Herzegovina 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
AGREED: 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By /s/ 
Ljerka Maric 
Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH 
 
Date: 7/7/2003 
Page  2
-
2
-
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
1.1. 
The purposes of the Grant are to co-finance the Social Insurance Technical Assistance 
Project (the Project), which has as its main objectives to strengthen the effectiveness and 
efficiency of health and pension insurance systems of the Recipient by assisting in the 
implementation of the current reforms and in the development of future social insurance reforms 
in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Federation) and Republika Srpska (RS) in 
accordance with Development Credit Agreement (Credit Number 3779 BOS) between Bosnia 
and Herzegovina and IDA of even date herewith. 
 
1.2. 
The components  and activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
(a)  Provision of technical assistance, training, and office equipment to assist the Recipient to 
identify options for expanding the contribution base for health and pension insurance, and to 
determine liabilities and entitlements of farmers and the self-employed;   
 
(b)  Provision of technical assistance, training, and office equipment to identify options for 
simplifying and consolidating the revenue side of the social insurance system to ease the heavy 
reporting burden on employers, and enable easier control and enforcement of payroll and other taxes;    
 
(c)  Provision of technical assistance, training and office equipment to identify options for 
mitigating the consequences of low-risk pooling and for developing a master plan for utilization of 
health services;    
 
(d)  Provision of technical assistance and training to define, design, pilot test, evaluate and 
plan for national roll our of a new provider payment system which harbors the incentives necessary 
to improve effectiveness and efficiency;  
 
(e)  Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to identify options for medium-
term systemic reforms of the pension system, and assist the government sin design  of the future 
system based on the preferred direction of reform;   
 
(f)  Provision of technical assistance, training, and equipment to enhance the technical and 
management skills of staff in the implementing agencies (Entity level Ministries of Health, Entity 
level Ministries of Labor, Entity level Health and Pension Insurance Funds, Tax Administrations, 
and Ministry of Civil Affairs); and 
 
(g)  Provision of technical assistance, training, equipment, and incremental operating 
costs in support of Project Implementation.  
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient shall, and shall cause the Federation and RS, to: (a) carry out the Activities 
with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of 
the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views 
with IDA's representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; (e) take all necessary 
measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the 
Page  3
-
3
-
Grant; and (f) cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used 
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, 
if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities. 
 
2.2. 
The Recipient shall enter into two subsidiary grant agreements (the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreements) with the Federation and RS,  as the case may be, satisfactory to IDA, and make 
available to the Federation and RS the proceeds of the Grant for purposes of carrying out of the 
Activities. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as IDA sha
ll otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services and goods 
required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
3.2.  
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely 
usable currency to replace or repair such goods. The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant 
to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate practices 
and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(in pounds sterling)
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
Part A
:
the Federation
(1) Consultants’ services  
 
405,000 
 
100% for Foreign Consulting 
Firms and Foreign individual 
consultants, 80% for Local 
Consulting Firms and Local 
individual consultants. 
 
(2) Workshops/Training  
 
90,000 
 
100% 
Page  4
-
4
-
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(in pounds sterling)
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(3) Goods 
 
(4) Incremental operating costs 
 
110,000 
 
20,000 
 
100%  of foreign expenditures, 
100% of local expenditures ex-
factory cost and 85% of local 
expenditures for other items 
procured locally 
 
90% through September 30, 
2004, 75% through December 
31, 2005, 50% thereafter 
 
Sub-total 
 
Part B
:
RS
(5) Consultants’ services  
 
625,000 
 
323,000 
 
100% for Foreign Consulting 
Firms and Foreign individual 
consultants, 84% for Local 
Consulting Firms and Local 
individual consultants  
 
(6) Workshops/Training  
 
40,000 
 
100% 
(7) Goods 
 
(8) Incremental operating costs 
 80,000 
 
10,000 
 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85% of local 
expenditures for other items 
procured locally 
 
Sub-total 
 
TOTAL 
 
453,000
For the purposes of this paragraph: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; provided, however, 
that, if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the territory of which 
Page  5
-
5
-
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be 
deemed to be “foreign expenditures”;  
 
(c) 
the term “foreign consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is registered or 
incorporated in the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
 
(d) 
the term “foreign individual consultant” means an individual consultant who is 
not a citizen of the territory of the Recipient; 
 
(e) 
the term “local consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is registered or 
incorporated in the territory of the Recipient; 
 
(f) 
the term “local individual consultant” means an individual consultant who is a 
citizen of the territory of the Recipient; 
 
(g) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred 
by the Federation Project Management Unit (PMU) or the RS Project Coordination Unit (PCU) 
on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including the cost of 
transport and travel, fuel and repairs made on account of maintenance and operation of vehicles, 
office equipment, office supplies, and communication; and 
 
(h) 
the term “training” means training activities (other than consultants’ services) to 
be carried out under the Project, including the cost of local training and workshops such as 
facilitators fees, per diem of participants to cover transportation, lodging and subsistence and 
minor organizational expenses, and costs of international study tours such as travel and visa costs, 
per diem, lodging and subsistence and course-related expenses. 
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in or services 
supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after August 31, 2007 or 
such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date). However, 
withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date 
if the corresponding withdrawal application is received by IDA within four months after the Closing 
Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account 
shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the Categories in 
the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures under such Category, 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such Category an amount of the Grant then 
allocated to another Category which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other 
expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Page  6
-
6
-
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance 
and Treasury of the Recipient or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and 
(b) accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be 
provided with the first application bearing his or her signature. Each withdrawal application for an 
amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy 
IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such 
amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by 
the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms costing less than 
US$100,000 equivalent each;  (b) services of individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 
equivalent each; (c) contracts for goods costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; (d) 
training/workshops; and (e) incremental operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as IDA 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, 
at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the 
purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in Euro 
a
special deposit account for each part of the Project (the Special Account) in a bank acceptable to 
IDA on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall, and shall cause the Federation and RS, to maintain or cause to 
be maintained a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall, and shall cause the Federation and RS, to: (i) have the records, 
accounts and financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts 
for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable 
to IDA, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon 
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above for such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to 
IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall, and shall cause the 
Federation and RS, to: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) 
above, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA 
Page  7
-
7
-
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that 
such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with 
IDA shall have been suspended.  
 
6.2. 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if  IDA has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or 
(d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s assistance in financing the Project. 
Page  8
-
8
-
Attachment I 
 
Procurement  
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
1. 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 
5
of
Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages suitable for 
competitive bidding. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. 
 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.  
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
2.  
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  9
-
9
-
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which are a proprietary nature and costing US$30,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with IDA's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by IDA, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the procedure 
referred to in Part B 1. of this Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) ) the first two contracts to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in each Part C.1 and Part C.2 of this Section I; and (ii) each contract  to be 
procured in accordance with the procedure referred to in Part C.3 of this Section I, the following 
procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Recipient shall provide to IDA 
a
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Recipient shall provide to IDA 
a
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto and the following provisions of this Section II. 
 
Page  10
-
10
-
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and 
footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to the prior agreement of IDA. 
 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for Project audits starting the second year of Project implementation estimated 
to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services for Project audits up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$50,000 
equivalent, may, with IDA’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for risk pooling, information technology strengthening, monitoring and 
evaluation estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for: (a) tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; and 
(b) tasks under Part A 3 and Part B 3 of the Project may be selected on a sole-source basis in 
accordance with the provision of paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior 
approval of IDA. 
 
Part D
:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection methods, shall be furnished to IDA for its review and 
approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals. Such plan shall be 
updated every six (6) months during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be 
furnished to IDA for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
Page  11
-
11
-
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have 
been approved by IDA. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of individual consultants to 
be selected on a sole source basis, and each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more; and (ii) each contract to be procured in 
accordance with the procedure referred to in Part B of this Section II, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, experience 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also 
apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  12
-
12
-
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to Euro 100,000 in 
respect of the Federation Special Account and an amount equivalent to Euro 70,000 in respect of 
RS Special Account to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as 
IDA shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, IDA shall, 
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant 
Account under the eligible Category(ies), and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
 
Page  13
-
13
-
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount. 
 
