Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3778 BOS 
 
RS Project Agreement 
 
(Social Insurance Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA 
 
Dated July 7, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3778 BOS 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 2003 between the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and REPUBLIKA SRPSKA 
(Republika Srpska). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to five 
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,200,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
Republika Srpska agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement; and 
 
(B) 
by a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and Republika Srpska (the Subsidiary Credit Agreement), the Borrower will make 
available to Republika Srpska a portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under 
the Development Credit Agreement on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS Republika Srpska in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of Part B of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) Republika Srpska declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and technical 
Page  3
-
2
-
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Republika Srpska shall otherwise agree, Republika 
Srpska shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. Republika Srpska shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of Republika Srpska and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) Republika Srpska shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, 
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
Republika Srpska shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Republika Srpska of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Credit Agreement.  
 
Section 2.05. (a) Republika Srpska shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of Part B of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Republika Srpska shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and Republika Srpska a plan 
for the future operation of Part B of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with Republika Srpska on said plan. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) Republika Srpska shall maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in a format 
acceptable to the Association adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures in connection with the carrying out of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Republika Srpska shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and accounts for the Special 
Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and  
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon Republika Srpska’s reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, Republika Srpska 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which:  
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds;  
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  5
-
4
-
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the later of: the 
date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective or the date when 
this Agreement has been executed by the parties hereto. 
 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Republika Srpska thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development 
Credit Agreement shall terminate. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  Deliveries 
made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so 
specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
For Republika Srpska: 
 
Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska 
 
Ul. Vuka Karadzica 4 
 
78000
Banja Luka 
 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 
Facsimile: 
 
387-51-331351 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Republika 
Srpska or by Republika Srpska on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit 
Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Minister of Finance, or by such other person 
or persons as Republika Srpska shall designate in writing, and Republika Srpska shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Joseph Ingram 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA 
 
By /s/ Dragan Cavic 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
RS shall carry out Part B of the Project through the RS MOH, RS MOF, RS 
MLV, RS PDF and RS HIF which shall be responsible for the overall implementation of 
Part B of the Project in accordance with the arrangements satisfactory to the Association. 
 
2. 
RS shall maintain the RS PCU until the completion of the Project, with adequate 
staff, funds, facilities and other resources required for this purpose in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association.  The RS PCU shall be responsible for Project 
coordination, procurement and financial management aspects of Part B of the Project in 
accordance with the Project Implementation Manual. 
 
3. 
RS shall, not later than September 30, 2003 establish, and thereafter maintain, in 
a
manner and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, a Project Steering 
Committee, consisting of representatives from the Ministry of Civil Affairs of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, RS MOH, the Federation MOH, RS PDF, the Federation PDII, RS HIF, the 
Federation HIRI, RS MOF, the Federation MOF, RS MLV and the Federation MLSP. 
The Project Steering Committee shall be responsible for reviewing the progress of the 
Project implementation and advising on any policy issues related to the implementation 
of the Project. 
 
4. 
RS shall maintain the Subsidiary Credit Agreement and the Project 
Implementation Manual in form and content satisfactory to the Association and duly 
perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Credit Agreement and the Project 
Implementation Manual and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement or the Project Implementation Manual without obtaining the prior 
approval of the Association. 
 
5. 
RS shall maintain the Project Account in a commercial bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, wherein it shall deposit its share of the Project 
costs for the implementation of the Project, and replenish such account on a quarterly 
basis in an amount of 
 9,500 equivalent, during the implementation of the Project.
 
6. RS 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of Part B of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2005 a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part B of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by February 28, 2006, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part B of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Procurement  
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
1. 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages suitable for 
competitive bidding. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  11
-
10
 -
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $30,000 equivalent or less in 
the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
provisions referred to in Part B 1. of Section I of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts to be procured in accordance 
with the provisions referred to in each Part C.1 and C.2 of Section I of this Schedule; and 
(ii) each contract  to be procured in accordance with the provisions referred to in Part C.3 
of Section I of this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  12
-
11
 -
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to the prior agreement 
of the Association. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for Project audits starting the second year of Project implementation 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  13
-
12
 -
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services for Project audits up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 
equiv
alent, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for risk pooling, information technology strengthening, monitoring and 
evaluation estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for: (a) tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines; and (b) tasks under Part A.3 and Part B.3 of the Project may be 
selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provision of paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Association. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection methods, shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any 
requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every six (6) months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Association for 
its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, and each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (ii) each 
contract to be procured in accordance with the procedure referred to in Part B of Section 
Page  14
-
13
 -
II of this Schedule, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. 
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
