Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9398-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (LPG)
TRANSPORT AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
April 30, 1991
Indr ::ry and Energy Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Taka (Tk)
US$1.00         =   Tk 34.90
Tk 1.00         -   US$0.0287
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 barrel (bbl)                               0.159 cubic meter (m8)
1 cubic foot (CF)                            0.028 (m8)
1 British thermal unit (Btu)             -   0.252 kilocalorie (kcal)
1 metric ton (mt) of oil, 0.85 sp.gr.  =   7.4 bbl
1 kilometer (km)                         -   0.621 mile
MCF                                      =   thousand standard cubic feet
MMCFD                                    -   million standard cubic feet per day
mtpy                                     =   metric tons per year
BCF                                      =   billion cubic feet
TCF                                      =   trillion (1,000 billion) cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP               -     Annual Development Plan
BFA               -     Bakhrabad Franchise Area
BGFCL             -     Bangladesh Gas Fields Company Limited
BGSL              -     Bakhrabad Gas Systems limited
BPC               -     Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
CNG               -     Compressed Natural Gas
CNGCL             -     Compressed Natural Gas Company Limited
ERL               -     Eastern Refinery Limited
ESAC              -     Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr.1999-BD)
FYP               -     Five-Year Plan
GOB               -     Government of Bangladesh
ICB               -     International Competitive Bidding
IDA               -     International Development Association
LFS               -     LPG Feasibility Study
LPG               -     Liquefied Petroleum Gas
LPGL              -     Liquefied Petroleum Gas Limited
NGL               -     Natural Gas Liquid(s)
Petrobangla       -     Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Minerals Corp. ation
RPGCL             -     Rupantarita Prakritik Gas Company Limited
SGDP              -     Second Gas Development Project (Cr.1586-BD)
SGFCL             -     Sylhet Gas FieLds Company Limited
TA                -     Technical Assistance
TFA               -     Titas Franchise Area
TGTDC             -     Titas Gas Transmission and Distribution Company
UNDP              -     United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (LPG) TRANSPORT AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiaries:  Rupantarita Prakritik Gas Company Limited (RPGCL) and Liquefied
Petroleum Gas Limited (LPGL), which are subsidiaries of the
Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Minerals Corporation (Petrobangla) and
the Bangladesh Petioleum Corporation (BPC), respectively.
Amounts         SDR 49.8 million (US$67.2 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlending       10? per annum on repayment terms of 15 years, including 5 years
Terms:          of grace.  The Government would onlend US$26.6 million of the
proceeds of the Credit to RPGCL for the LPG storage and
transport component, and US$40.6 million to LPGL for the LPG
bottling component. The Beneficiaries would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project         The Project would support the downstream transport and
Description:    distribution of LPG (or bottled gas) to be produced from the
northeastern gas fields. Project components include storage
facilities, an LPG pipeline, two LPG bottling plants and
rehabilitation of an existing plant, LPG cylinders and pressure
regulators, and technical assistance in the areas of project
support, capacity-building and policy development. The Project
would pursue LPG pricing reforms, promote joint Petrobangla and
BPC sector planning, facilitate private sector involvement,
promote environmental and operational safety in the petroleum
sector, and enhance the role of Bangladeshi women in the retail
distribution of LPG cylinders and more energy-efficient cooking
stoves.
Benefits        The Project would assist in reducing the foreign exchange drain
and Risks:      from oil imports, alleviating biomass energy shortages and
promoting social equity between the country's eastern region
and less-developed western zone. Two of the Project's
innovative technical assistance components would also pioneer
in promoting environmental and operational safety in the
petroleum sector, and in enhanc:ng the development role of
Bangladeshi women. Implementation delays are the main Project
risks. Construction delays would be minimized by providing for
effective implementation supervision and project management for
both RPGCL and LPGL. Suitable c aditionalities to ensure
adequate financial performance would minimize the risk of
delays due to resource constraints.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i
Estimated Proj,ect Cost,
Local      Foreipn       Total
US$ million ------I
RP Gas Co. Ltd. (RPGCL)
A. Storage for LPG and Condensates                 1.0         5.9          6.9
B. Ashuganj-Elenga LPG Pipeline                   1.5          9.4         10.9
C. Directional Drilling                           0.3          1.9          2.2
D. Implementation Supervision                                  2.0          2.0
E. Management & Operations
Assistance/Training and Studies                           2.2          2.2
F. Technical Assistance                                        0.8          0.8
SUBTOTAL                                2.8        22.2         25.0
LP Gas Co. Ltd. (LPGL)
G. LPG Bottling Plants:
Elenga                                       1.0          5.8         6.8
Kailashtila                                  0.4          2.2         2.6
Chittagong (Rehabilitation)                  0.2          0.4         0.6
H. Cylinders, Valves, Regulators                 10.9         12.0         22.9
I. Storage                                        1.2          8.3          9.5
J. Implementation Supervision                                  1.0          1.0
K. Management & Operations
Assistance/Training and Studies                           2.3          2.3
L. Technical Assistance                                        0.7          0.7
SUBTOTAL                               13.7        32.7         46.4
Base Cost Estimate                               16.5         54.9         71.4
Physical Contingencies (10O)                 1.7          5.5         7.1
Price Contingencies                          3.1          8.7        11.9
Total Project Cost                               21.3         69.1         90.4
Interest During Construction                 3.8          0.0         3.8
Total Financing Required                         25.1         69.1         94.2
NOTE: Total Project cost net of duties and taxes (US$13.9 million) is
US$80.3 million.



-iii-
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign       Total
- --- U$ million -------
IDA Credit                                         -          67.2         67.2
RPGCL                                             5.6            -          5.6
LPGL                                             19.5            -         19.5
Bilateral Grant Cofinancing                       -19                       1.9
TOTAL                                            25.1         69.1         94.2
Estimated Disbursements (USS million):
(IDA Fiscal Year)                FY92     FY93      FY94     FY95     FY96
Annual                            5.6      21.1     23.9     10.3       6.3
Cumulative                        5.6      26.7     50.6     60.9      67.2
Economic Rate of Return:         202
Based on the following conservative
assumptions: (i) pre-Gulf crisis prices for
crude oil (US$18/bbl base price) and petroleum
products; (ii) no price pressures on refining
margins for middle distillates and a low
kerosene-to-crude margin; (iii) a factor of 1.3
to derive the kerosene equivalent of LPG; and
(iv) no high-value commercial fuelwood
substitution.



BANGLADESH
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (LPG) TRANSPORT AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Sontents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary   .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  . . . . . .    (i)
I.    ENERGY SECTOR   .     .  .  .  .  ..  . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
A. Sectoral Importance  ... .  .  .  .  .   ................    .  1
B. Energy Resources and Supply  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
C. Energy Consumption . ......         ...........   .          2
D. Energy Sector Oi.anization and Planning  . . . . . . . .     3
E. Energy Pricing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       4
F. GOB's Energy Sector Strategy   . . . . . . . . . . . . .     5
G. Bank Group Involvement in the Energy Sector  . . . . . .     5
II.   THE BENEFICIARIES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      7
A. Rupantarita Prakritik Gas Company Limited (RPGCL)  . . .     7
B. Liquefied Petroleum Gas Limited (LPGL) . . . . . . . . .     8
C. Organization, Management and Staffing  . . . . . . .  .      8
D. Accounts and Audit ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  9
E. Training Requirements   . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   9
III.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     10
A. Project Background   . . .  . . .    . .  . . . . . . . .   10
B. Project Objectives   . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .     10
C. Project Description  . . . . . .    ... . . . . . . .   .   10
D. Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
E. Project Cost   . . . . . . . . . .  .  . . . . . . . .      12
F. Project Financing Plan   . . . .    . . . .    . .. . .     13
G. Status of Project Preparation  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
H. Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
I. Disbursement   . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .         16
J. Environmental Impact and Operational Safety  . . . . . .    17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in July 1990.
Mission members included Mr. F. Manibog (Mission Leader) and Ms. M. Tumaliwan
(Operations Assistant)--ASlIE; Messrs. H. Sergo (Sr. Financial Analyst),
J. Thomas (Sr. Geologist) and L. Wijetilleke (Sr. Chemical Engineer)--ASTEG;
and Messrs. J. Davis (Financial Analyst), R. DeLucia (Economist) ard B. Mink
(Environmental and Process Engineer)--Consultants. The report has been
endorsed by Messrs. S. Asanuma (Director, AS1DR) and F. Temple (Chief, AS1IE).
Peer reviewers included Messrs. P. Nore (IENGU), E. Moore (IENED) and M.
Shirazi (EMTIE), who reviewed economic and pricing, institutional and technical
aspects, respectively.  Secretarial support was provided by Mmes. I. Christy
and A. Thornton.



-2-
Page No.
K. Development Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...      18
'iomen in Development  .. . . . . . ..                   18
Poverty Alleviation    ..      ..............            19
L. Project Monitoring and Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
M.  Risks    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
IV.   FINANCES     .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .  .    . .    . .   .  .  . .  .  . .  .  .  .  20
A. Rupantarita Prakritik Gas Company Limited (RPGCL)  . . .    20
Past CNG Finances   . . . . . . .  ... . . . . . . .     20
Present Financial Position  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
Financal Restructuring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
Future Finances . . . . .....    . ...  . . . . .        2
B. Liquefied Petroleum Gas Limited (LPGL)   . . . . . . . .    23
Past  Finances  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
Financial Restructuring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
Future Flnances .    .................                   24
C. Financial Internal Rate of Return  . . . . . . . . . . .    25
D. Resource Mobilization  . . .   . . ... . . . . . . .        25
V.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION  . . . . . . . . . . ...    . . . ...        26
A. Demand Forecasts and Market Development  . . . . . . . .    26
B. Least-Cost Alternatives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
C. Economic Internal Rate of Return . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
D. Sensitivity Analyses .y . .l.y.ss.  .  ..................   .  29
E. Justification for Bank Group Involvement   . . . . . . .    29
VI.   AGREEMNTS REACHED AND RECOMNKNDATION  . . . . ..  . . . . . .      30



Page No.
TABLES
3.1   Project Coat Estimate Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13
3.2   Project Financing Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     14
3.3    Siummary of Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
4.1   Results of Financial Restructuring of CNG Operations   . . . .     21
4.2   RPGCL's Consolidated Accounts  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     22
4.3   LPGL's Consolidated Accounts . . . . . . . . . . . . v v . . .     24
4.4   Project's Estimated Resource Hobilization Impact . . . . . . .     25
ANNEXES
1.1   Sectoral Shares in Petroleum Products Consumption
1.2   Fuel Shares in Petroleum Products Consumption
1.3   Organization Charts--Petrobangla and BPC
1.4   LPG Transfer and Retail Pricing Principles
1.5   Retail Prices of Petroleum Products (February to October 1990)
2.1   Organization Charts--Rupantarita Prakritik Gas Company Limited (RPGCL)
and Liquefied Petroleum Gas Limited (LPGL)
3.1   Linkage with the Second Gas Development Project
3.2   Iaplementation Schedule--Second Gas Development Project and
LPG Transport and Distribution Project
3.3   Disbursement Schedule
4.1   Financial Statements--RPGCL
4.2   Financial Statements--LPGL
4.3   Financial Internal Rate of Return Calculation
4.4   Resource Mobilization Impact of the Project (RPGCL and LPGL)
5.1   Distribution of Petroleum Products
5.2   Petroleum Products Demand Projections
5.3   Least-Cost Analysis and Petroleum Price Assumptions
5.4   Economic Internal Rate of Return Calculation
6.1   Documents Available in the Project File
MAP   Transmission System for Natural Gas and Natural Gas Liquids (IBRD 22901)



BANGLADESH
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (LPG) TRANSPORT AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Sectoral Importance
1.01    An efficient energy sector is essential to promote economic growth in
Bangladesh. Given its severe rescurce limitations and persistent balance of
payments constraints, the country needs to substitute for energy imports and
mobilize resources for sector entities and the Government budget. To reduce
the foreign exchange outlays on imported petroleum, a major objective of the
Government of Bangladesh (GOB) is to develop the country's large reserves of
natural gas and natural gas liquids (NGL), which include liquefied petroleum
gas (LPG). GOB's FY86-90 3rd Five Year Plan (FYP) recognized the need to
accelerate energy sector development, for which about 162 of total public
allocations was earmarked. The 4th FYP (FY91-95) retains a high allocation for
energy, with the gas subsector diversifying from mainly supplying gas to power
and fertilizer consumers during the 1980s, to direct substitution of NGL for
petroleum imports during the 1990s.
B. Energy Resources a-ad Supply
1.02    Bangladesh imports all of its petroleuw supplies.  Its main commercial
energy resources consist of substantial reserves of relatively low-cost natural
gas and limited hydropower potential. The potential for oil and coal resources
has yet to be determined.   Aoout 40X of total energy supply is from commercial
resources, and the remainder is from traditional biomass fuels, namely, fuel-
wood, crop residues and animal wastes. In FY87, domestic sources (natural gas
and hydropower) accounted for about 602 and imported sources (oil and coal) for
about 402 of commercial energy supplies.
1.03    Natural Gas and Oil.  GOB accords high priority to the development of
natural gas and NGL resources. Natural gas output increased from 45 billion
cubic feet (BCF) in FY80 to about 147 BCF in FY89, a 142 annual growth rate.
It is now the main commercial energy source, accounting for about 592 of supply
compared to 362 in FY80. The small oil find in Sylhet is being evaluated.
1.04      The appraisal drilling program under the Second Gas Development
Project (SGDP/Cr.1586-BD) has been completed successfully in 1990, increasing
the known gas reserves from 10 trillion cubic feet (TCF) to 15 TCF. The nine
appraisal and two work-over wells were completea as gas producers, and the
reservoir study results indicate that the northeastern gas fields not yet in
production are larger than originally estimated. Upon completion of SGDP,
significant new production capacity of around 300 million cubic feet per day
(MHCFD) will be added to the gas network, enabling supplies from the northern
fields to reach the east bank of the Jamuna River. Under the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project (Cr. 1402-BD), GOB held a promotion campaign
aimed at attracting international oil companies (IOCs) to undertake petroleum
exploration. The June/July 1989 promotion meetings resulted in 2C companies
purchasing exploration data packages, and Petrobangla is discussing possible
production-sharing agreements with several interested lOCs, Future development



plans focus on (a) bringing surplus gas from the northeastern gas fields tc the
south to avoid impending deficits in the Chittagong area where new major
consumers are planned and (b) further NGL recovery and distribution. These
efforts are expected to further reduce petroleum imports.
1.05    Coal.  Several thick coal seams at depths of less than 200 meters have
been located recently in the Barapukuria area of Dinajpur District in the west
zone. Potential resources are estimated at 265 million tons. A full
feasibility study ftnded by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA, UK)
was completed in November 1990 and is under review.
1.06    Hydropower.  Bangladesh's hydropower potential is around 1,500
gigawatt-hours/year, of which 1,050 gigawatt-hours/year have been developed at
a 330-megawatt plant at Kaptai near Chittagong. No detailed engineering
studies have been undertaken for two other hydro sites, since their development
would require the relocation of about 30,000 people.
1.07    Traditional Fuels.  Per capita biomass supplies are diminishing
continuously due to deforestation and rapid population growth. Extensive
fuelwood planting is a not viable option to meet the supply gap due to the high
population density and pressure for agricultural land. In addition to
providing LPG as a substitute fuel, it is essential to improve biomass recovery
and conversion efficiency (e.g., in cooking stoves), which is a technical
assistance component under this LPG Project.
C. Energy Consumption
1.08    Bangladesh's per capita commercial energy consumption of about 56
kilograms of oil ?quivalent per annum is among the lowest in the world (about
one-ninth of the average for low-income countries). In FY87, gross commercial
energy consumption was about 4.6 million tons of oil equivalent, of which
natural gas accounted for 542, petroleum 382, hydropower 52 and coal 32. With
the accelerated development of gas aupplies, however, the consumption of
commercial energy increased rapidly at 10.8Z a year during FY83-87, compared
with the annual growth rate of about 4.12 for real GDP. The bulk of gas
consumption in FY88 was in power generation (442) and fertilizer production
(36Z);  however, other industrial, commercial and domestic uses are expanding
steadily. The GDP/comercial energy elasticity of about 2.6 was high, compared
to the average of about 1.1 for developing countries. There is considerable
inefficiency in commercial energy use and hence substantial scope for
improvement, particularly in industry, petroleum refining and electric power
transmission and distribution. This issue is being addressed through various
IDA-financed projects, including the Industrial Energy Efficiency Project
(Cr. 1942-BD), Power Distribution Project (Cr. 2016-BD) and the completed
Energy Efficiency & Refinery Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1357-BD).
1.09    With increased gas availability and GOB's policy of substituting gas
for imported petroleum products, the country's dependence on imported crude oil
and petroleum products was reduced significantly during FY80-87 from about 602
to 402 of total commercial energy needs. Despite this decline, petroleum
imports continue to be substantial, claiming about 92 of the country's limited
foreign exchange earnings in FY89. Further, the residential/commercial (372)
and transport (292) sectoral shares of total petroleum products consumption
remain high (Anner 1.1). Demand for petroleum products is heavily skewed



3-
toward mlddle distillates. Of total petroleum products consumption
(Annex 1.2), kerosene accounts for 291 and diesel for 541, with 902 of kerosene
supplies used in the reeldential/commercial sector and 651 of diesel supplies
in the transport sector ulone.
D. Energy Sector Organization and Planning
1.10    The institutions responsible for energy sector policy are: (a) the
Planning Commission, responsible for macroeconomic planning, including Five-
Year Plans and Annual Development Plans, and for approving capital investments
costing more than Tk 5.0 million (about US$140,000); and (b) the Ministry of
Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR), responsible for overseeing operations of
the four publicly-owned energy sector entities that produce, transport and
deliver Bangladesh's commercial energy. The entities are the Bangladesh Power
Development Board (BPDB), the Rural Electrification Board (REB), the Bangladesh
Oil, Gas and Minerals Corporation (Petrobang.' and the Bangladesh Petroleum
Corporation (BPC)AI. BPDB is responsible for electricity generation,
transmission and distribution, except in areas served by REB. REB is
responsible for rural electrification schemes and organizing consumers into
semi-autonomous cooperatives. Petrobangla is responsible for the exploration,
production and delivery of natural gas and NGL, and the exploration and
development of oil and solid minerals, including coal. In July 1989, GOB
reorganized Petrobangla as a holding company, holding equity in a new set of
independent companies operating along functional lines for exploration and
drilling, production, transmission and distribution of gas. BPC is responsible
for purchas4ng and refining crude oil and marketing petroleum products.
Refining is carried out at Bangladesh's only refinery, the Eastern Refinery
Limited (ERL), a BPC subsidiary. LPG is bottled and sold to private
distributors by LPG Limited (LPGL), another BPC sub'idiary. Three other BPC
subsidiaries (Jamuna, Meghna and Padma oil companies) market petroleum
products. The organization charts of Petrobangla and BPC are presented in
Annex 1.3.
1.11    The exceptions to public sector ownership are in the distribution of
commercial biomass fuels and petroleum products, which rely primarily on
privately-owned road and river tankers for transport and on private dealers for
local retailing. Although the petroleum distribution system is operating
satisfactorily, the expected future growth in commercial energy requirements
may stretch the system's capability to meet demand efficiently. Consequently,
there is further scope for increasing private sector participation, which IDA
is encouraging in new areas of the petroleum subsector. Private sector
involvement in LPG distribution is being promoted on a pilot basis in Khulna
under the Refinery Modification and LPG Recovery & Distribution Project
(Cr. 1749-BD) and would be expanded under the proposed Project. Further, GOB
is seeking to increase private oil exploration through a promotional campaign
under Cr. 1402-BD (para. 1.04).
1/ A fifth entity, the Dhaka Electricity Supply Authority (DESA), which will
be responsible for distribution in the greater Dhaka area, has been legally
established and is expected to begin commercial operations in 1991.



- 4 -
E.  Eners  Pricing
1.12    GOB's key energy pricing policy objectives include economic efficiency,
resource mobilization and equity. GOB has increased energy prices to reflect
the costs to Bangladesh of meeting consumers' energy requirements, while
minimizing the adverse effects on low-income consumers.
1.13    Electricity Tariffs.  BPDB's tariff rates for each consumer class are
uniform throughout Bangladesh, while each rural electrification cooperative
sets its own tariff rates with RED's approval. Electricity tariffs have been
raised frequently in recent years. During FY80-90, BPDB's average tariff rates
were increased by about 28X in real terms. Following the FY90 tariff
increases, BPDB's overall average tariff rate is about 702 of LRMC, and that
for cooperatives is about 562 of LRMC.
1.14    Natural Gas and Petroleum Products. Gas prices have been increased by
an average of 18? annually during FY86-90. In FY90, the weighted average gas
price is about Tk 43.5 per thousand cubic feet (MCF), which is slightly above
the estimated long-run marginal cost of supply and depletion premium
(Tk 40.0/MCF). Further, in line with its economic efficiency and resource
mobilization objectives, until mid-FY90 GOB maintained (a) petroleum product
prices at FY87 levels, which significantly exceeded border prices, and (b) a
weighted average transfer price, including excise duty, that is always at least
15? above the border price. In February 1990, the average transfer price was
35Z above the border price. In FY91, responding to the events in the Gulf, GOB
increased product prices by about 60? during September and October 1990 alone.
1.15    Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG).  Under the Project, the LPG transfer and
retail prices would be set according to principles intended to achieve both
economic and financial objectives (Annex 1.4). On strictly economic grounds,
the build-up of LPG prices would be based on the economic costs involved and
provide flexibility to adjust prices when upstream and/or downstream costs
change. The minimum economic pricing benchmark would be the economic ex-
recovery transfer price plus full economic cost recovery for downstream
investments. The upper-bound economic benchmark would corrispond to the border
price of the substitute fuel, adjusted for transport and useful energy
equivalency. Under certain conditions, financial considerations may warrant
higher LPG prices to ensure that margins fully cover operating costs, taxes and
duties, debt service, a reasonable return on investments and an adequate
contribution to capital expenditures. Further, higher LPG prices would: (a)
encourage natural gas use; (b) discourage LPG leakage into the transport
sector; (c) cover payment of import and excise duties levied on LPG operations;
(d) encourage private sector participation; and (e) capture consumers'
willingness to pay a convenience premium for LPG use.
1.16    To comply with these objectives, GOB agreed that: (a) LPG transfer and
retail prices will be reviewed annually and adjusted to comply with financial
viability objectives, or economic efficiency criteria, whichever is higher;
(b) the applicable prices will be fully put into effect by the time the
incremental LPG supplies come on stream; and (c) the transfer price from LPG
producers to LPG bottlers will be uniform throughout Bangladesh (paras. 4.17
and para. 6 of An-nex 1.4).



-5',
1.17    As regards retail prices, GOB agreed under the ongoing Refinery
Modification Project (Cr. 1749-BD) to remove all price controls on the
distribution and sale of LPG by June 30, 1989. In line with this agreement,
GOB increased the price of LPG per 12.5 kilogram cylinder from Tk 131 in July
1990 to Tk 180 in September 1990 and subsequently to Tk 200 in October 1990.
This represer.ts a 53X increase, as part of a series of adjustments that has
nearly doubled the weighted average retail price of all petroleum products
since February 1990 (Annex 1.5).  The Tk 200 per cylinder LPG retail price
(around US$460/mt) wyould about equal the upper-bound economic benchmark, based
on a long-term crude oil price assumption of US$ 25/barrel, a kerosene-to-crude
margin of US$50/mt, a factor of 1.3 to convert the LPG to its kerosene
equivalent (para. 5.07) and adjustment for domestic transport and distribution
costs. At present, the relevant LPG retail pricing benchmark would be derived
from financial criteria, based on the current kerosene retail price of Tk
14/liter, or US$660/mt after adjustment for LPG equivalency.  Further, at the
minimum, the LPG retail price should be in line with the kerosene equivalent
retail price, to ensure economically efficient LPG use and mobilize resources
for GOB. Financial viability of the Project beneficiaries and other entities
involved in LPG transport and distribution is achieved at this price level.
1.18    GOB has increased LPG prices significantly since appraisal.  In view of
the wide fluctuations during FY91 and uncertainties in international petroleum
prices, the levels and monitoring of the LPG price increases were reviewed
during negotiations and GOB confirmed that the LPG retail price will be
increased to reach adequate levels in accord with the agreed pricing
principles, before the incremental LPG supplies come on stream. The
calculation of the eventual LPG retail prices would be based on the prevailing
exchange rate and would take resource mobilization objectives as well as
inflation into account.
F. GOB's Energy Sector Strategy
1.19    Recognizing the importance of improving energy supplies to meet
forecast demand, GOB accorded high priority to the energy sector in the 3rd
FYP. The 3rd FYP's principal energy objectives are to: (a) accelerate the
development of natural gas resources to reduce dependence on imported oil;
(b) improve power supply reliability and quality and reduce system losses;
(c) improve energy use efficiency through conservation measures and appropriate
pricing policies; (d) meet energy demand at least cost to the economy;
(e) improve sector entities' performance; and (f) encourage private
participation in the sector, particularly in oil and gas exploration and
petroleum distribution. To underscore its commitment to the sector's
development, GOB allocated Tk 61 billion (about US$1.9 billion) at FY85 prices
for energy investments under the 3rd FYP. Energy accounts for 16Z of the total
public sector allocation, compared with about 12? under the 2nd FYP, and is
exceeded only by the allocation to agriculture sector.
G. Bank Group Involvement in the Energy Sector
1.20    Lending in the power and gas subsectore has been designed to:
(a) strengthen investment planning to meet forecast demand for gas and elec-
tricity at least cost; (b) improve sector institutions' performance and provide
training; (c) optimize the use of energy resources through appropriate energy
pricing and conservation measures; (d) appraise gas discoveries and optimize



- 6 -
field developmentl and (e) attract private capital for exploration. Since 1973
IDA has supported GOB's energy strategy through 13 credits of US$858 million
equivalent, representing about 192 of IDA resources committed to Bangladesh.
Seven of the credits (US$390 million) were for power projccts, and six were for
petroleum projects and the Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC/Cr. 1999-BD).
1.21    Both the ongoing Second Gas Development Project (SGDP/Cr. 1586-BD) and
the Bakhrabad Gas Development Project (Cr. 1091-BD), which closed on
December 31, 1985, encompassed all activities from production to delivery to
final users. The Bakhrabad project was implemented with only a slight delay
from the appraisal schedule (Project Performance Audit Report, October 22,
1987). The SGDP was delayed for almost three years with virtually no activity
except technical assistance, due primarily to the delay in mobilizing the
bilaterally financed drilling rig and petroleum technical services. In the
absence of drilling results establishing sufficient gas reserves, the design of
infrastructure and procurement of major items could not proceed. Since the
project finally started in 1988, however, the disbursement performance has been
or. track with appraisal estimates.
1.22    Although considerable progress was achieved through the above projects,
they did not provide an effective means to rationalize the entire energy
investment program and address issues affecting the overall organization of the
power and petroleum subsectors. Thus, during FY87, GOB and IDA developed a
comprehensive energy sector reform program, including investment planning,
institutional development, and energy pricing and resource mobilization, to be
implemented under the ESAC. The ESAC became effective in June 1989, and the
first and second tranches were disbursed by December 31, 1989 and June 30,
1990, respectively.
1.23    Cofinancing and Donor Coordination.  The two IDA-financed gas subsector
projects to date have featured substantial cofinancing from several bilateral
sources, including the Canadian International Development Agency, the
Directoraat Generaal Voor Internationale Samenwerking (the Netherlands), the
Overseas Development Administration (UK), the Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund (Japan), the OPEC Fund for International Development, and the United
Nations Development Programme. The joint supervision missions provide a semi-
annual forum for coordinating donor assistance to the gas subsector. Further,
a Gas Sector Investment Planning Review under preparation would provide a
framework for further donor coordination. Cofinancing for the Project was
sought vigorously but was not forthcoming due to the cofinanciers9 programming
constraints and diversification of areas for assistance.
1.24    Lessons Learned.  Several lessons are evident from the two lending
operations in the gas subsector. First, gas projects should be formulated
within the context of a long-term development plan. Second, training
components should be clearly defined and closely monitored. Third, in
cofinanced projects, items to be financed by different cofinanciers should be
selected carefully, to ensure that procurement guidelines applicable to
parallel credits do not seriously affect overall procurement efficiency.
Fourth, sector policy issues should be addressed within the context of policy-
based lending.
1.25    The foregoing lessons were made part of the Project's design.  Under
the ESAC, it has been agreed that new capital investments would be focused on



priority projects under an agreed Priority Investment Program (PIP). The
Project is part of the PIP and long-term development plan agreed and reviewed
annually with GOB, Petrobangla and BPC. The Project's training components
include the provision of a management and operations assistance team, beyond
the normal training provided with the equipment contract and monitored by the
supplier. No equipment will be cofinanced under the Project (para 1.23).
Finally, ESAC sectoral reforms would be reinforced in the Project.
II. THE BENEFICIARIES
2.01    The two Project b-_; .    aries are the Rupantarita Prakritik Gas Company
Limited (RPGCL) and the L4Uv    A Petroleum Gas Limited (LPGL), which are
subsidiaries of Petroban.._f   v3PC, respectively (para. 1.10).  Under the
Project, RPGCL will be the  ,. ficiary for the Ashuganj storage facilities and
the LPG pipeline from Ashuga.J to Elenga. LPGL will be the beneficiary for the
LPG bottling plants, cylinders end storage. The two entities are also the
beneficiaries for the Project's implementation supervision and other technical
assistance (TA) components, as appropriate.
A. Rupantarita Prakritik Gas Company Limited (RPGCL)
2.02    The appraisal mission reviewed the long-term institutional arrangements
to handle the recovery, fractionation, transport, bottling and distribution of
LPG as supplies from natural gas production at the northeastern gas fields
expand during the 1990s. The review concluded that, given the relatively small
amount of incremental LPG involved, the existing downstream institutional setup
was adequate, with LPGL responsible for bottling and the private sector for
transport and distribution.
2.03    For upstream functions, Sylhet Gas Fields Limited (SGFL) will own and
operate the NGL recovery facilities, as part of its responsibility to produce
pipeline quality gas. Ex-SGFL, however, Petrobangla decided that one
Petrobangla operating company (OC) should assume responsibility for
transporting and fractionating NGLs, which otherwise would be divided between
three different OCs, i.e., SGFL, the Titas Gas Transmission and Distribution
Company (TGTDC) and the Bangladesh Gas Fields Company Limited (BGFCL). A
single OC responsible for NGLs is essential since Petrobangla could be
producing up to 100,000 mtpy of LPG and a higher quantity of condensates as
more gas is produced. Centralized accountability, quality control and
monitoring of operational and environmental safety would be facilitated.
Further, only one transfer price within Petrobangla would be required (i.e.,
ex-SGFL), compared to three internal transfer prices if NGL operations were
spread over the existing OCs (i.e., ex-SGFL at Kailashtila, ex-TGTDC at
Ashuganj and ex-BGFCL at Elenga). This approach supports the ESAC
institutional reform objective of organizing the operations of the various
Petrobangla OCs along functional lines.
2.04    In order to avoid creating an additional OC and duplicating boards and
directors, in November 1990 Petrobangla amended the Articles of Association of
the existing Compressed Natural Gas Company Limited (CNGCL) to add NGL
transport and processing operations to its CNG activities. The transformed
CNGCL was named the Rupantarita Prakritik Gas (or Converted Natural Gas)



Company Limited (RPGCL). The RPGCL General Manager has been appointed.
RPGCL's organization chart and staffing plan were agreed during negotiations
(Annex 2.1).
B.  Liguefied Petroleum Gas Limited_(LPGL)
2.05    LPGL was incorporated in 1983 as a fully-owned BPC subsidiary
responsible mainly for bottling LPG produced at the Chittagong refinery. Under
the Project, LPGL's activities will be expanded to include bottling plants at
Kailashtila and Elenga, which will make LPG cylinders available to private
sector distributors at the plant gates. LPGL's completion of an LPG market
development plan for IDA's review and concurrence is a dated covenant under the
Project. TA is being provided under the LPG pilot component of the ongoing
Refinery Modification Project for the establishment of a set of operating codes
and safety standards. This LPG Project provides for an expanded TA/training
package to assist LPGL in rehabilitating its Chittagong operations, as well in
managing and operating its new LPG bottling plant.s (para. 2.08).
C. Organization, Management and Staffing
2.06    RPGCL.  RPGCL will have two separate divisions: (a) the Compressed
Natural Gas Division (CNGD), to which CNGCL's current staff of five and
existing facilities will be transferred; and (b) the NGL Division (NGLD), which
will be responsible for all NGL-related functions, including the Ashuganj-
Elenga pipeline, the north-south condensate pipeline and the Ashuganj
fractionation, jetty, storage and ancillary facilities to be transferred to
RPGCL when completed under SGDP.  Each division would be expected to be
financially self-sufficient. RPGCL will employ new staff for its NGL
operations, some of whom will be transferred from other Petrobangla companies.
TGTDC is responsible for maintaining the entire pipeline and surface facilities
network of the Titas Franchise Area, which accounts for close to 702 of natural
gas sales in Bangladesh. To avoid duplication of staff and minimize
maintenance costs, RPGCL agreed that the Titas Gas Transmission and
Distribution Company will be responsible for supervising the maintenance of
RPGCL's pipelines.
2.07    RPGCL's new staff of about 70 people would include a General Manager,
assisted by two Managers for CNGD and NGLD. In the first two years of
operation, an expatriate team with adequate experience will be retained to
provide assistance and training to ensure proper management and operations of
the NGL facilities.
2.08    LPGL.  LPGL's organization and staffing of about 60 employees is scaled
to its present operations of handling about 9,000 metric tons per year in
Chittagong. The staff consists of a General Manager, foreman, shift
supervisors and labor. While present staffing is adequate, LPGL's current
setup would be insufficient to handle the Elenga and Kailashtila plants under
the Project. To ensure adequate staffing for its future operations, LPGL
agreed on a staffing plan for its expansion and strengthening, which would
include separate plant managers and technical staff for each of the three
bottling plants. The staffing at each center should be geared to the LPG
volumes being handled, and the operating policies should incorporate the
maintenance procedures and safety measures of the Chittagong rehabilitation



- 9 _
plan. As in RPGCL, LPGL would also be provided a management and operations
assistance and training team for the first two years of operation.
D. Accounts and Audit
2.09    RPGCL and LPGL are required by law to prepare full commercial accounts.
Existing accounting and internal control systems are adequate for their current
operations. With expanded operations, however, cost center accounting needs to
be introduced to monitor the financial performance of each of LPGL's bottling
plants and of RPGCL's LPG and CNG operations separately. Such cost center
accounting would also provide useful information for pricing decisions and
ensure that RPGCL's NGL operations do not subsidize its CNG operations. RPGCL
and LPGL have egreed to maintain separate accounts for RPGCL's CN¢ and NGL
divisions, for LPGL's Elenga, Kailashtila and Chittagong operations, and for
the IDA-financed Project.
2.10    Companies in Bangladesh, such as RPGCL and LPGL, are subject to two
types of external audit. The first audit is by a firm of Chartered
Accountants, after which each enterprise's balance sheet and profit and loss
statement are submitted to the annual general meeting of its stockholders.
Accounts are required to be ready for external audit within sit months
following the end of the financial year and are audited within three months
after submission. The second audit is the Government's commercial audit, the
report of which is submitted to the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources.
These audit arrangements are adequate, except for the timeframes for the
preparation of statements and their audit.
2.11    RPGCL and LPGL have agreed to: (a) appoint independent auditors
satisfactory to IDA; (b) submit to IDA copies of their unaudited financial
statements (balance sheets, income statements and funds flow statements), as
well as Project accounts and analytical accounts for each cost center, not less
than three months after the end of each fiscal year, and copies of the audited
statements with the report and comments of the Commercial Auditor not later
than six months after the end of the fiscal year. GOB has agreed to submit to
IDA the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General within nine months after
the end of each fiscal year. The Auditor's report should include an opinion on
controls and procedures on the use of a Special Account and an audit report on
the Statement of Expenditures under the Project (para. 3.17).
E. Training Requirements
2.12    RPGCL would need to develop the capability to implement the Project and
operate the Ashuganj facilities upon completion, which would require RPGCL to
acquire the necessary expertise in process plants and LPG pipeline operations.
Training of RPGCL staff would be made part of the supply contract for the SGDP
facilities and augmented under the Project through: (a) a management and
operations assistance contract; (b) TGTDC advice and secondments (para. 3.09);
and (c) external training for the plant team. LPGL's technical capabilities to
handle larger bottling operations would also need to be enhanced, primarily
through a management and operations assistance contract. Twinning arrangements
for LPGL to provide on-the-job training would be required to take full
advantage of extensive experience within the region in LPG operations. RPGCL's
and LPGL's respective training programs and implementation schedules were
discussed and agreed during negotiations.



- 10 X
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Background
3.01    Bangladesh's only indigenous commercial energy resources are natural
gas, the liquids in the gas (NGL), dwindling supplies of biomass fuels, and
possibly coal. The country imports all of its petroleum supplies, anc kerosene
alone accounts for almost 302 of total petroleum consumption. The majority of
the population depends on biomass fuels, of which a large proportion is sold at
market prices almost quadruple the price of kerosene on a useful energy
equivalent basis. LPG (or bottled gas) recovered from natural gas production
could substitute for kerosene and commercial fuelwood used in cooking.
B. Project Oblectives
3.02    The main Project objective is to assist Bangladesh in carrring out an
economic and least-cost household and commercial energy supply strategy through
the substitution of LPG for imported kerosene and commercial fuelvood. The
Project would assist in: (a) reducing the foreign exchange drain from oil
imports; (b) alleviating biomass energy shortages and promoting social equity
between the country's eastern region and the less-developed western zone;
(c) establishing LPG prices in accord with economic efficiency and financial
viability principles; (d) developing a suitable institutional framework for
efficient LPG development and operations; (e) promoting an environmentally and
operationally safe petroleum industry; and (f) facilitating private sector
involvement in LPG transport and distribution.
C. Project Description
3.03    In addition to the north-south pipeline and the drilling of nine gas
wells, the Second Gas Development Project (SGDP) is also financing upstream
facilities fo (a) gas dehydration and hence recovery of LPG and condensate by-
products, and (b) pipeline transport and fractionation of these liquids at the
Ashuganj central products terminal, as well as on-site at Kailashtila on a
small scale. The Project would assist in the downstream transport, bottling
and cylinder distribution of LPG derived from gas production at the northern
gas fields, from which up to 100,000 metric tons per year (mtpy) of LPG could
be recovered when the fields are further developed during the 1990s in line
with the PIPs of Petrobangla and BPC (para. 1.25). The linkage between SGDP
and the Project is discussed in Annex 3.1. The combined facilities are
presented in the Project map. As from the mid-1990s, the Ashuganj
fractionation plant is expected to annually produce around 135,700 metric tons
of liquids, composed of the following products (in mtpy): LPG (34,200);
kerosene (20,100); motor spirit (60,700); high speed diesel (16,600); and
propane (4,100). Around 5,000 mtpy of LPG would also be available at
Kailashtila.



- 11 -
3.04    Proiect Comgonents.  The Project would consist of the following
components:
RPGCL:
(a) construction of storage facilities for LPG and condensates,
and acquisition of related equipment and spare parts, at the
Ashuganj NGL fractionation plant;
(b) construction of an LPG-dedicated pipelir,e from Ashuganj to Elenga
(about 165 km);
(c) directional drilling works for about four river crossings for
the LPG pipeline;
LPGLt
(d) construction of LPG bottling plants and storage facilities at
Elenga and Kailashtila;
ce) acquisition of cylinders, valves and regulators for the Elenga and
Kailashtila bottling plants;
(f) rehabilitation of the LPG bottling plant at Chittagong; and
(g) acquisition of related equipment with spare parts for (d) and (f).
3.05    The Project's technical assistance (TA) components include construction
implementation supervision for both RPGCL and LPGL, as well as Project support,
capacity building and policy development. Project support and capacity-
building TA includes: (a) intensive mana,-ement and operations assistance and
training for RPGCL and LPGL; (b) for RPGCL, the following studies:
.i) feasibility study for incremental NGL processing and distribution; and (ii)
a technical, economic and financial assessment of compressed natural gas
development options and preparation of a commercialization strategy; and (c)
for LPGL, the following activitiest (i) preparation of a detailed LPG market
development plan; (ii) establishment of a program to enhance the role of
Bangladeshi women in the retail distribution of LPG cylinders and stoves, and
to train commercialization agents in the development and promotion of energy-
efficient cooking stoves; and (iii) a technical assessment of cracking surplus
naphtha to produce LPG. For the policy development TA, RPGCL and LPGL would
prepare a full assessment of petroleum sector environmental and operational
safety standards and practices, with a view to identifying urgently required
equipment as well as regulatory and institutional reform.
3.06    During negotiations, agreement was reached with RPGCL and LPGL on
(a) the terms of reference for the TA/training components and (b) dated
covenants to review the recommendations of the studies and agree on an
implementation plan.



12 -
D. Project Imlementation
3.07     The LPG transport portion would be implemented by RPGCL.  LPGL would
implement the LPG bottling portion. GOB has agreed that RPGCL and LPGL would
each be assisted for infrastructure design and construction supervision under
IDA financing. Contract award for the infrastructure design and implementation
supervision consultancy services is a condition of Credit effectiveness. The
joint implementation schedule for SGDP and the Project, which should be
adequately coordinated to avoid delays, is provided in Annex 3.2.
3.08    During appraisal, Petrobangla and the Titas Gas Transmission and
Distribution Company (TGTDC) agreed thats (a) the 165-kilometer, 4-inch
diamLter LPG pipeline from Ashuganj to Elenga would follow the route of the
Brahmaputra Basin gas transmission pipeline financed by the Asian Development
Bank, for which the land (20-foot strip) and right-of-way have already been
acquired; and (b) the LPG bottling plant will be located at the TGTDC site
already acquired at Elenga, which is about 3 km from the proposed Jamuna Bridge
site. Until a bridge is built, the LPG cylinders would be ferried across to
west zone destinations from Bhuapur, which is about 15 km from Elenga. When a
bridge is commissioned, the LPG pipeline could be extended across to a west
zone bottling plant site, or the Elenga LPG bottling plant can continue
supplying northwest Bengal from Rangpur and Bogra to south of Baghabari.
3.09     RPGCL will be assisted through technical advice and staff secondments
by TGTDC, which already has the in-house expertise in pipeline-laying and
knowledge of any coordination requirements with the Brahmaputra Basin gas
pipeline. Further training of RPGCL staff would be made part of the supply
contracts under SGDP and augmented under the Project, including an operation
and management contract for the first 24 months of operation, as well as
external training for the plant team. LPGL's capabilities to handle larger
bottling operations would be enhanced through a management and operation
contract, as well as external twinning arrangements. The latter would take
full advantage of the extensive experience within the region in the management,
operation, market development and safety aspects of LPG downstream operations.
The national oil companies of the Philippines and Thailand have expressed
preliminary interest in such twinning arrangements.
E. Project Cost
3.10     The Project's eLtimated cost, including physical and price
contingencies, is US$90.4 million, of which duties and taxes are
US$13.9 million. The total financing required is estimated at US$94.2 million,
including US$69.1 million in foreign exchange. The estimates are based on
early-FY91 prices. Physical contingencies are included at 10? of base costs,
on the basis of experience with similar projects in Bangladesh. Price
contingencies for foreign costs are 3.62 a year for FY91-96 and for local costs
are 9Z for FY91, 8Z for FY92, and 7P for FY93 and 6? a year thereafter.
Purchasing power parity is assumed for exchange rate changes over the life of
the Project, starting from a base of Tk 34.9/US$l.0 at the time of appraisal.
Total price contingencies amount to 15? of the base cost including physical
contingencies. Depending on whether the site is classified as less- or least-
developed, and the equipment as either industrial or commercial, the duties and
taxes are at 10.5Z, 15.5? or 88.8? of the foreign exchange cost of materials
and equipment. The summary cost estimate is given in Table 3.1.



13 -
Table 8:1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATE SUMMARY
Local       e       Total       Local   Foen   Total
L    TTakaii1TiTon -- -         F    USS million -
RP Gas Co. Ltd._ME:CL)
A. Storage for LPG and Condensates           88.8      227.8    26.0          1.0      6.9      6.9
B. Auhugani-Elenga LPG pipoline              68.4      882.0    420.4         1.6      9.4    10.9
C. Directional Drilling                      11.5       73.0     84.6         0.8      1.9      2.2
0. I    -p '--tatIon Supervision                        80.4     80.4                  2.0       2.0
E. MInagemnt A Operations
Assistance/Training and Studios                      89.8     89.8                  2.2      2.2
F. Technical Assistance                                   .0      1.0                  0.8      0.8
SUBTOTAL, RPOCL                   108?           47i                           :i;Y  22.
LP Gas Co. Ltd. CLPOL)
0. LPG Bottling Plants                       68.0      825.6    888.5         1.6      8.4      10.0
H1. Cylinders, Valves, Regulators           442.7      487.6    930.2        10.9      12.0     22.9
'. Storage                                   46.8      321.8    888.6         1.2      8.8      9.5
J. Impleoentation Supervision                           39.9     89.9                  1.0      1.0
K. Management and Oporations
Assistance/Training and Studies                      93.2     98.2                  2.8      2.8
L. Technical Assistance                                 27.8     27.8                  0.7      0.7
SUBTOTAL, LPOL                    562.5   1,296.2  1,847.7          18.7    i!.7    ASU
Ba" Cost Estimate                           681.2    2,168.6  2,819.8        16.6    64.9    71.4
Physical Contingencies (10%)              86.1      216.9    282.0          1.7     5.6       7.2
Price Contingencies                      126.6      847.2    472.7         8.1      8.7      11.8
Total Project Cost                          862.8   2,721.7  8,674.6         21.8    69.1      90.4
Interest During Construction             148.8        0.0    148.8         8.8      0.0      8.6
Total Financing Required                  1,001.8   2,721.7  8,728.8         25.1    69.1    94.2
NOTE: Total Project cost not of duties and taxes (US318.9 million) ie US580.8 million.
F. Project Financing Plan
3.11      The proposed Credit would finance 1002 of the Project's foreign cost,
excluding US$1.9 million in bilaterally grant-financed technical assistance.
The accounting policies of Petrobangla and BPC provide for capitalization of
interest during construction (IDC), which is estimated to be US$3.8 million.
RPGCL and 1.PGL would finance US$25.1 million from their internally generated
cash, and GOB's share of around US$1.9 million for the technical assistance
component would be contributed as equity. GOB would bear the cost overrun
risks. The proposed financing plan is in Table 3.2.



- 14 -
Table 3.2: PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
Local        Foreign         Total
t-     ---- US$ million    
IDA Credit                      -            67.2           67.2
RPGCL                          5.6             -             5.6
LPGL                          19.5             -            19.5
Bilateral Grant
Cofinancing                     -             1.9            1.9
TOTAL                    25.1           69.1           94.2
The Credit would be provided to GOB on standard IDA terms and onlent to RPGCL
and LPGL under Subsidiary Loan Agreements satisfactory to IDA. The proceeds
would be onlent at 102 per annum, for a period of 15 years including a 5-year
grace period, with the Beneficiaries bearing the foreign exchange risk in line
with previous IDA Credits in the petroleum sector. The exchange rates for the
US Dollar and the Taka used in the financial forecasts assume purchasing power
parity based on the projections for local and foreign inflation in accord with
Bank forecasts. On this basis, the effective Taka onlending rate for FY92
would be 15.4Z, which is comparable to the current local Taka lending rates for
industrial projects of 13.52 to 16.52. The execution of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA is a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
3.12     Private Sector Participation.  In line with GOB policy to maximize
private involvement in LPG distribution, the distribution of LPG cylinders and
stoves will be handled by the private sector. Private retailers are expected
to use inland barges, trucks and/or other small transport means to obtain LPG
at the bottling plant gates, in the same manner as the entirely private
distribution of liquid products from BPC depots. During negotiations, RPGCL
confirmed that the surplus propane at Ashuganj (around 5,000 mtpy) will be
offered for sale to private sector companies. The bottling plant and cylinders
would be fully owned and operated by LPGL to avoid any risk in delaying LPG
distribution, which has to start in time for the availability of natural gas
and NGLs under SGDP in FY94. Private sector interest has been expressed
through the submission of bids for the pilot LPG component under the Refinery
Modification Project, but the formation of joint venture/s, such as the joint
venture between BPC and Bangladesh Oxygen Limited (BOL), have involved long
lead times. Further, the private sector parties have required firm LPG supply
contracts before committing downstream investments. In 1988, for example,
Shell withdrew its interest when uncertainty arose regarding the source, volume
and timLng of LPG supplies. The scope for private sector involvement in LPG
bottling can be assessed as Petrobangla firms up its drilling and
infrastructure development plans for the remainder of the 4th FYP.



- 15 _
G. Status of Project Preparation
3.13     The design for the LPG recovery facilities has been prepared by the
SDGP infrastructure design and implementation supervision consultants.
Procurement is also at an advanced stage with their assistance, and the bids
are under evaluation. The construction team for the north-south gas and
condensate pipelines has been mobilized, and laying of the lines started in
mid-CY90. The July 1989 LPG Feasibility Study (LFS) financed by the Canadian
International Development Agency evaluated the viability of extracting LPG from
various gas fields and concluded that LPG development at the northeastern gas
fields has the highest economic and technical merit. Furthe. *technical issues
(e.g., reservoir fluids analyses, LPG specifications, operational safety
measures) were addressed and detailed cost estimates were prepared by
subsequent IDA missions. The route for the LPG pipeline is already known, and
no land acquisition is involved in the Project (para. 3.08).
H. Procurement
3.14     Procurement of goods and services for this Project will be carried out
as follows:
(a) storage for LPG and condensates, the Ashuganj-Elenga LPG pipeline and
the LPG bottling plants at Elenga and Kailashtila will be awarded
under turnkey contracts in accordance with international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures; bidders for the Ashuganj-Elenga pipeline
will be prequalified;
(b) cylinders, valves and regulators will be awarded under ICB procedures;
(c) contracts for procurement of goods and services each costing US$1
million or less, for which there are a limited number of suppliers,
may be procured under limited international bidding (LIB) procedures,
up to an aggregate value of US$3 million;
(d) contracts for procurement of goods and services each costing less than
US$200,000 may be procured under international or local shopping, not
exceeding an aggregate value of US$1 million;
(e) items of a proprietary nature may be procured directly from the
suppliers with prior approval by the Association of the list of items
to be procured;
(f) other goods costing US$200,000 or more not list6d abo7e will be
procured following ICB procedures; and
(g) consultancy services will be procured under the Bank's Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants.
Studies and technical assistance services not financed by IDA would be obtained
under the bilateral cofinanciers' procurement procedures.
3.15     A margin of preference of 152 of the CIF cost of imported items or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is less, will be granted to domestic
suppliers competing under ICB. A 7.51 price preference will be granted to



- 16 -
domestic contractors bidding for the Ashuganj-Elenga LPG pipeline contract.
All procurement documents relating to bids valued over US$0.5 million and all
LIB contracts will be subject to IDA prior review; smaller bids will be
submitted for post-award review. It is estimated that the Project procurement
requirements will be covered by about sixteen procurement packages. Of these,
about ten are estimated to have a value in excess of US$0.5 million each and a
total value of US$55 million, or 82? of the procurement financed under the
Credit.
Table 8.8: SIJUMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS Million)
ICE      LCS     Other        W   b/      Total
Storage for LPO and Condensates         7.       -        -           1.8          8.
at AshugonJ                       (7.6)     -         -           (-)         (7.6)
Ashuganj-Elonga Pipeline               119       -        -           1.9         18.8
(11.9)    -         -           (-)        (11.9)
Directional Drilling                     -       -        2.4         0.4          2.8
-       -       (2.4)        (-)         (2.4)
LPG Bottling Plants at Elenga          10.1      -        -           1.8         11.9
and Kailaghtila                     (10.1)     -        -                       (10.1)
Rehabilitation of the Chittagong         -       -        0.6         0.8          0.8
LP0 Plant                              -       -        (0.5)                   (0.6)
Cylinders, Valves and Regulators       14.8      -                   14.1         28.9
(14.8)    -         --)                    (14.8)
Storae at Elenga and                   10.6               -           1.6         12.0
Kai ashtila                         (10.6)     -        -           (-)         (10.6)
Consultants/Traing                       -       -       11.4          -          11.4
-       -       (9.6)         -          (9.6)
TOTAL                                  54.8      -       14.8        21.8         00.4
(54.8)    -       (12.4)        (-)        (67.2)
/    'Other' includes Limited International Bidding, local or international shopping, Consultancy
Services under IDA ?uidelines, and Consultancy Services under bilateral coftinancing
guidelines.
hi   'Not Applicable* Includea custoAm duties, equipment and services financed out of RPOCL and
LPOL9s own resources.
NOTE: Figureo In parenthese are the rspective amounts financed by IDA.
I. Disbursement
3.16     Disbursements under the Credit would be made as follows:
(a) 100Z of foreign expenditure for materials and equipment, including
installation; 100? of ex-factory expenditure for goods manufactured
locally and procured under ICB or LIB procedures; and 75? of the
expenditure for other goods procured locally;
(b) 100? of foreign expenditure and 75? of local expenditure for civil
works and transport, erection and commissioning of equipment; and
(c) 100? of total expenditure for consulting services and training.



17
Retroactive financing of up to US$5 million for expenditures incurred on or
after January 1, 1991 would be allowed to cover payments expected to be made
for services and equipment procured in accord with IDA's Procurement
Guidelines. This retroactive financing is necessary to carry out urgent work
(e.g., the repair and rehabilitation of the Chittagong LPG plant to prevent
further deterioration) and Project engineering (e.g., infrastructure design
consultancy services).
3.17     To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be established in
the Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The Special
Account would be used only for actual Project expenditures and there would be
no second.generation Special Account/s. The initial deposit in the Account
would be US$3.0 million equivalent, estimated on the basis of four months'
average expenditures, net of large contracts not expected to be paid from the
Special Account. All disbursements would be made following standard IDA
documentation requirements, except for contracts valued at less than US$200,000
equivalent per contract, for which Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) procedures
could be used. RPGCL and LPGL will retain for IDA inspection the detailed
documentation supporting SOEs. The operation and audit of the Special Account
were agreed with GOB during negotiations.
3.18    The disbursement schedule shown in Annex 3.3 is based on a Credit
Closing Date of June 30, 1996. The total disbursement period for the Project
is expected to be 5 years, compared with the 6-year Bank profile for Asia
region gas pipeline projects. The proposed implementation and disbursement
schedules are considered realistic based on the experience with the Bakhrabad
Gas De lopment Project (Cr. 1091-BD), which was completed with only a slight
delay trom the five-year implementation period and to date is the most rapidly
disbursed energy project in Bangladesh. The disbursement profile for
Bangladesh power projects would not apply, since no major land acquisition or
civil works are involved in the Project. Land and right-of-way for the LPG
pipeline and bottling plant have already been acquired under the Brahmaputra
Basin gas project and the equipment are to be procured mostly off-the-shelf
(e.g., skid-mounted LPG bottling plant, standard LPG cylinders).
J. Environmental Impact and Operational Safety
3.19     The Project's environmental and operational safety assessment was
prepared under the LPG Feasibility Study and through consultancy services
during IDA preparation missions. TA is being provided under the LPG component
of the Refinery Modification Project to ensure that safety norms are being
applied. For example, based on internationally accepted safety standards and
practices, BPC has adopted the specification of limiting the propane content in
LPG for household use to a maximum of 50X. Further, the Chittagong facilities
have been allowed to deteriorate into serious disrepair. BPC recognizes this
problem and has requested IDA to include in the Project the urgent
implementation of a rehabilitation plan for the Chittagong plant, including
regulations to ensure that the plant facilities and LPG cylinders are handled
and used safely. The plan builds on the operational TA being provided under
the Refinery Modification Project and would be fully implemented before the
Elenga and Kailashtila operations comience.



- 18 °
3.20    The appraisal mission also reviewed the draft LPG Safety Rules and
found them to be broadly satisfactory, with some improvements required in terms
of explicit references to detailed procedures applied in other LPG-using
countries.  Further, to ensure the application of environmental and safety
measures for the petroleum sector as a whole, it was agreed that an assessment
of necessary standards and practices would be part of the Project's TA
component. This assessment would include the preparation of detailed
operational procedures for all tte entities that will be involved when LPG
comes on stream in PY94. The environmental and operational safety assessment
should be completed by June 30, 1992, at which time IDA will seek agreement
with GOB, Petrobangla and BPC, by December 31, 1992, on the actl= plan for
implementing the assessment's recommendations by the time the LPG under the
Project comes on stream.
3.21    The LPG plant sites will be located within the restricted and secure
premises of the concerned Petrobangla and BPC operating companies. There will
be no groundwater contamination from the LPG recovery plants, which do not
produce liquid effluents. The LPG pipeline and bottling plant will be
constructed following already acquired land and right-of-way (para. 3.08).
3.22     Care is required in the handling of LPG, as in any other petroleum
product. LPG, however, has been used extensively and safely for several
decades in densely populated developing countries. The Project design and
installation will ensure that equipment designs are strictly in accord with
international safety codes. A preventive maintenance and safety inspection
program will be instituted in the plants as part of the management and
operations TA. At the point of end-use, LPG (like natural gas) is an extremely
clean fuel, which does not yield poisonous and sulphur- or dust-containing flue
gases. LPG substitution for kerosene would alleviate the negative
environmental effects and safety risks related to kerosene and fuelvood use
(e.g., emission of particulates and carbon dioxide).
K. Development Impact
3.23    Women in Development (WID).  BPC's three marketing companies are
limited to transport and storage of bulk petroleum products up to main depots.
As LPG supplies increase, however, an intricate network of retail distribution
channels needs to be established to reach a large number of households.
Bangladeshi women, operating through small-scale private enterprises and/or
with non-governmental organizations, could play an increasingly important role
in large-scale LPG marketing and distribution. The Project includes measures
to involve Bangladeshi women as agents of technology transfer and
commercialization, as follows:
(a) marketings promotion of LPG use by demonstrating to housewives the
financial cost, time savings and health benefits of LPG use;
(b) retail distributic   provision of training and extension to ensure
safety in the sale A use of LPG cylinders and stoves; and
(c) managements identification of opportunities to foster leadership roles
in which women may have comparative advantage (e.g., management of
credit schemes, direct promotional activities with housewives,
networking with non-governmental organizations).



- 19 -
The WID component would require a pilot phase (FY92) followed by full
implementation (FY93194), for which the scale and strategies would be tailored
to the pilot results. Thls component would set the stage for distributing
larger amounts of LPG during the 1990S.
3.24    Poverty Alleviation. A primary Project benefit would be the creation
of employment and income-generation opportunities through small-scale private
retail outlets for LPG cylinders and stoves. Time savings from fuelwood and
other biomass fuel procurement on a non-commercial basis would also accrue, for
which the opportunity value is additional time available for child care,
education, and possibly income-generating activities. Through the WID
component, an added social benefit would be the specific targeting of a
relatively disadvantaged social group, namely, Bangladeshi women, to transfer
and commercialize a new household cooking fuel. Finally, there would also be
cash savings where substitution for commercial fuelwood occurs.
L. Project Monitoring and ReportinR
3.25    Project implementation would be monitored by RPGCL and LPGL with the
assistance of implementation supervision consultants. RPGCL and LPGL would
submit quarterly reports and other pertinent information to IDA. Following
Project completion (i.e., not later than six months after the Credit Closing
Date or a later date agreed for this purpose), RPGCL and LPGL would each
provide to IDA a Project Completion Report on the Project's execution and
initial operation, costs and benefits, their performance and the accomplishment
of the Credit's objectives. Accounts and audit monitoring and reporting are
discussed in paras 2.09 to 2.11.
Y, Risks
3.26    The main Project risk is povsibl'e delays in implementation.  Since SGDP
will be the first source of LPG from & sequence of NGL-related investments in
Petrobangla's PIP, a condition of Cree t effectiveness will be the contract
award for the SGDP LPG recovery facili .ls. Implementation delays could result
both during procurement and constructiviL. The main potential source of delay
would be procurement of long-delivery it,zms. A schedule of key procurement
steps was agreed with RPGCL and LPGL durlig negotiations.  In line with this
timetable, contract award for consultancr services to prepare detailed design
specifications, as well as prequalification and tender documents for the major
works, equipment and materials, would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Based on past experience in Bangladesh, construction delays could result from
inadequate project management, which would be addressed by providing for
effective implementation supervision by RPGC'" and LPGL (para 3.07). Risk of
delays due to domestic resource constraints would be minimized by suitable
conditionalities to ensure adequate financial performance (paras 4.09 and
4.14).



20 
IV. FINANCES
4.01    Under the Project, the Rupant,rita Prakritik Gas Company Limited
(RPGCL) would be formed out of the existing Compressed Natural Gas Company
Limited (CNGCL) and assume responsibility for natural gas liquids processing
and LPG fractionation and transport (paras. 2.02 to 2.04), in addition to
current CNG operations. The Liquefied Petroleum Gas Limited (LPGL) would be
responsible for LPG bottling; marketing will be handled by the private sector
and BPC's regional marketing companies. CNGCL and LPGL have accumulated
excessive long-term debt due to GOB's past financing policies. Financial
restructuring and the adoption of sounder financial policies are therefore
required to correct capital imbalances and to protect the financial viability
of future operations. CNG activities are intended to be experimental without
commercial intent, commercialization being the role of the private sector.
Hence, in the future, GOB should finance all CNG pilot activities on a 100?
grant basis, until operations are commercially viable. On this basis, no
losses or charges would accrue to RPGCL for CNG operations. As regards NGL and
LPG operations, the financial forecasts indicate that once the Project has been
implemented, both operations should yield satisfactory profits, with annual
after-tax rates of return being in the 102 to 21Z range. The Project's
financial objectives are to restructure the Beneficiaries to make them
financially viable (paras. 4.06 and 4.12), and to ensure the future financial
viability of operations through adequate pricing arrangements (paras. 1.15-
1.18) and improved monitoring of financial performance (paras. 2.09-2.11).
A. Rupantarita Prakritik Gas Company Limited (RPGCL)
4.02    RPGCL took over all the assets and liabilities of CNGCL when it assumed
responsibility in early-1991 for all CNG activities and NGL transport and
processing operations. The financial statements (Balance Sheets, Income and
Funds Flow Statements) for CNG and NGL operations during FY87-97 are given in
Annex 4.1. The financial statements up to FY91 relate entirely to C.IGCL's past
CNG operations, while those for FY92-97 show the combined results of CNG and
the fully commercial NGL operations of RPGCL. The FY92-97 consolidated figures
essentially reflect the results of NGL operations, given the 100? GOB grant
financing arrangements for future small-scale CNG development (para. 4.07).
4.03     Past CNG Finances.  Prior to January 1, 1987 when CNGCL was created,
all CNG project as well as current management and administrative expenditures,
were financed by loan advances from the Annual Development Plan (ADP) and
onlent IDA funds from GOB. CNGCL took over all the assets and liabilities of
CNG operations on incorporation. There has been little consumer interest in
converting vehicles to CNG use due to high conversion costs, the small number
of filling stations, and insufficient differential between the prices of CNG
and gasoline to encourage conversion. Consequently, CNGCL's operations have
been consistently in deficit.
4.04    All current expense deficits prior to January 1, 1987 were accumulated
and capitalized as deferred charges in CNGCL's books on incorporation. Further
losses in FY88 were also capitalized. Losses of Tk 2.4 million and Tk 1.5
million in FY89 and FY90, respectively, were carried forward in the accounts of
those years. This unesatisfactory situation has been further exacerbated by the
capitalization of exchange losses (Tk 8.4 million) which appear related to the



21 -
onlent IDA Cr. 109l-BD and which, in accord with the Development Credit
Agreement, should have been taken up by GOB.
4.05     Present Fivancial Position.  CNGCL's financial position is
unsatisfactory. The capitalization of past operating losses and exchange
fluctuations has resulted in deferred charges equivalent to 602 of net assets,
which should be written-off since they have no value. GOB's practice of
financing CNGCL's operations and development schemes through annual ADP loan
advances and onlent IDA Credits has resulted in excessive long-term debt.
CNGCL's current total debt/equity ratio of 70/30 is unacceptable for a non-
commercial operation. GOB's original equity contribution to CNGCL of Tk 25.4
million was itself a converted ADP advance. As of June 30, 1990, CNGCL had a
cash balance of Tk 24.7 million consisting of unused funds.
4.06     Financial Restructuring.  During negotiations, agreement was reached
with RPGCL on a firnancial restructuring program for its CNG-related operations
by FY92. GOB also agreed that it will take all actions necessary to facilitate
RPGCL's financial restructuring action plan. Using figures taken from CNGCL's
FY91 audited account, this financial restructuring is expected to include the
following steps: (a) long-term debt under IDA Cr. 1586-BD to be converted to
equity, in accordance with the agreement under Cr. 1586-BD; (b) GOB to provide
additional equity contribution to RPGCL, to be used as a prepayment of long-
term debt under IDA Cr. 1091-BD; (c) long-term ADP debt to be converted to
equity; (d) all deferred charges to be written off against equity; and te)
balance due to Head Office to be converted to equity. These measures would be
reflected in RPGCL's balance sheet of June 30, 1992. The capitalization of CNG
operations before and after financial restructuring is given in Table 4.1
below.
Table 4.1: RESULTS OF FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURING OF CHO OPERATIONS
CNOCL                 RPOCL
Closing-larlnc. Sheet  Op.ninjg1Tance Shoot
TcTk mlilon-
Not Fixed Assets                             10.3                    10.8
Deferred Charges                             43.6
Current Asests: Cash            24.7                    24.7
Other             1.3                     1.8
Loss Current Liabilitles         2.0         24.0        2.0         24.0
Total Not Assets                       l                        g
Financed BY:
Equity                                 22.6                    84.8
Long-Term Debt - IDA       84.2
- ADS         17.2        61.4                      -
Head Office                             8.8
2,   Based on CNOCL's FY9O audited accounts.
4.07     CNG operations are intended to be experimental, with the private
sector responsible for commercialization, and therefore should not be
encumbered with debt. During negotiations, GOB agreed that as from the date of
transfer of CNG operations to RPGCL, GOB will finance on a 100? grant basis all
future CNG feasibility and pilot projects.



- 22 -
4.08     Future Finances.  Annex 4.1 gives the assumptions used in RPGCL's
FY92-97 financial forecasts for NGL transfer pricing and planned CNG schemes.
RPGCL's new NGL operations would become profitable in FY94, the first year of
production, and the profits would progressively increase from Tk 9 million in
that FY to Tk 103 million in FY97. After-tax rates of return on net fixed
assets would increase from 10X in FY94 to 15? in FY97. Considering the income
tax rate of 502, these rates of return would be satisfactory. Once NGL
production commences, RPGCL's financial position is expected to be good. The
high debt/equity ratios forecast for FY92-94, which relate to the high level of
debt financing for the new facilities, would decline rapidly to acceptable
levels once the Project is fully operative and are expected to improve to about
62/38 in FY97. The current ratio after FY93 is forecast to be in the 2.8 to
4.0 range, which would be fully satisfactory. Liquidity would be good, and
after FY94 funds could be made available from the large cash balances for
expansion or prepayment of debt, thereby further improving RPGCL's debt/equity
ratio. Debt service coverage is expected to be more than adequate. The
salient features of RPGCL's FY91-97 consolidated accounts are provided in
Table 4.2 below.
Table 4.2: RPGCL'S CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS (FY91-97)
(Tk Million)
FY                     91       92       98    04         95       96        97
Gross Soles Revenuo     0.1     0.1      0.1    688.0    1464.1    1541.8   1688.9
Loss: Raw Materials     0.1     0.1      0.1    899.2      846.8    897.0   900.9
Net Sales Revenue       -        -        -     288.8     -ifi7  -Ii44§       U
Operating Expenses                       __ _: 3T  i1WM             321.5 UYi -u
Net Operating Income   (i7!)   (8.4)    (8-6)   120.5      299.9    822.6   -T17 7
Interest Charged        -        -       -      (94.1)   (207.4)   (208.8)   (187.6)
Interest Received      2.7      2.7      2.7      7.6       28.8     49.2      67.0
Exchange Losse          -        -        -      (16.1)    (24.8)    (26.0)    (24.0)
Income Tax              -        -       -(4B 2)    (72.0)   (104.4)
Not Profit (Loss)                                 0.6  D    44 9     70 4     102 7
Rate of Return on
Not Fixed Assets:
After Tax              -       -        -       10X       12X       1a      1is
Current Ratio          18.0    12.1    10.9      2.8        2.9      8.8       4.0
Debt/Equity Ratio        -    70/80   77/28   71/29    70/80        68/82    62/8e
Debt Service Coverage   n/a     n/a      n/a     2.6        1.8      2.0       1.6
4.09     To protect RPGCL's financial viability, GOB agreed that in pricing NGL
products, RPGCL will be allowed margins that would enable NGL revenues to cover
operating expenses, debt service, additional working capital requirements, and
a minimum of 35? contribution to investment. RPGCL also agreed on the
following financial performance targets: (a) RPGCL's debt/equity ratio would
not exceed 65/35 after Ff94; (b) RPGCL would not incur debt in any FY without
prior consultation with IDA, if the projected debt service coverage in that or
any future year would be less than 1.5 times; (c) surplus cash resources from
NGL operations would first be used to meet the requirements of those
operationr, and RPGCL would not declare a dividend or transfer profits to GOB
or Petrobangla in any FY unless RPGCL's own financial requirements have been
adequately met; and (d) RPGCL would review with IDA by March 31 each year its
capital expenditure program for the following FY and the related financing
requirements to ensure that required funds are available to implement the
program.



- 23 -
B. Liquefied Petroleum Gas Limited (LPGL)
4.10     LPGL's financial statements in Annex 4.2 give the results for FY86-90
and forecasts for FY91-97. The FY86-90 figures relate entirely to Chittagong
LPG operations, while those for FY91-97 are a consolidation of forecast
investment and operational results for all three centers (Chittagong, Elenga
and Kailashtila).
4.11     Past Finances.  In recent years, LPGL has achieved annual after-tax
rates of return on historically valued net fixed assets of between -2 and 19?
on its Chittagong operations; however, net operating income has been
insufficient to cover interest charges. The high annual interest charges have
resulted from excessive debt. LPGL's audited FY89 accounts show an
unacceptable debt/equity ratio of 81/19; the latest figures for FY90 indicate a
ratio of 74/26. The excessive debt level can also be seen in the failure of
LPGL's internal cash generation to cover debt service payments in three of the
last five fiscal years. LPGL has only been able to show a net profit because
of the interest received from large cash deposits accumulated since
incorporation; the provisional accounts for FY90 indicate cash balances to be
equivalent to twice the net value of LPGL's plant. Thus, it would seem that in
the past LPGL has chosen to borrow from ADP and thereby increase its
debt/equity ratio, rather than use its increasing cash balances for investment
or prepayment of debt. This practice may have been facilitated by GOB's use of
budgetary-based procedures for making ADP loans, rather than the normal
appraisal processes. In its present financial situation and to put its
finances on a sound commercial basis, LPGL needs to restructure its capital to
achieve both a satisfactory balance between equity and debt and a debt service
level sustainable by its Chittagong operations. Depreciation rates on plant
and buildings appear excessive, having exceeded 16X per year in the past.
Hence, LPGL also needs to review and adopt more appropriate depreciation rates
for each class of plant in use. The salient features of LPGL's past finances
are presented in Annex 4.2.
4.12     Financial Restructuring.  LPGL should be required to maintain a
debt/equity ratio not exceeding 65/35 on its operations. While due to the
proposed financing arrangements for the Project, a debt/equity ratio of 65/35
cannot be expected on its consolidated operations before the end of FY94 when
the Elenga and Kailashtila plants are commissioned, LPGL should take corrective
measures in FY91 to bring down the present high debt/equity ratio (74/26) on
its ongoing Chittagong operations. Such a reduction would contribute to the
longer term processes of lowering the debt/equity ratio on consolidated
operations and strengthening the company's overall finances. While the
required improvement could be achieved by a simple debt conversion, a
satisfactory debt/equity ratio could also be achieved through appropriate
financing arrangements for the Chittagong investment program (estimated at
appraisal to be about Tk 50 million for FY91). Financing such a program by LPGL
(61Z), GOB equity contribution (252) and loan (14Z) would achieve the desired
objective. During negotiations, LPGL agreed on a capital restructuring plan to
reduce the debt/equity ratio of its Chittagong operations to not more than
65/35. GOB also agreed that it will take all actions necessary to facilitate
LPGL's action plan for financial restructuring. Agreements were also reached
with LPGL that: (a) from FY95 and thereafter, it will maintain a debt/equity
ratio not exceeding 65/35 on its consolidated operations; (b) as from FY92 A.t
will periodically review with IDA the annual depreciation rates and adjust



- 24 
these in line with those commonly practiced within the industry; and (c) each
year by March 31, it would review with IDA its capital expenditure program for
the following FY and the related financial requirements to ensure that required
funds are available to implement the program.
4.13     Future Finances.  LPGL's FY91-97 consolidated financial forecasts
indicate a considerable improvement compared to the company's past earnings
pattern. Taking into account price increases of 202 in each of FY92 and FY93
which may be required to bring prices in line with the current energy
equivalent retail price of kerosene, net profit should increase from
Tk 12.4 million in FY91 to Tk 43.9 million in FY93. Given LPGL°s very lows ra:te
base, after tax rates of return are forecast to reach 532 in FY93. In PY94,
the new operations at Elenga and Kailashtila are expected to bring about a
further radical transformation in LPGL's earnings and overall financial
performance. Net profits are forecast to increase from Tk 148 million in FY94
to Tk 206 million in FY97. With the commissioning of the new facilities,
LPGL's net fixed assets will increase from Tk 70 million in FY93 to
Tk 1,440 million in FY94, and to Tk 1,665 million in FY97; conseque-.ttly after.
tax rates of return are likely to fall to within the 152 to 202 range which,
given the high level of taxation, would be satisfactory. Current ratios would
i.e good; the cash position would be sufficient to provide funds for further
expansion or the prepayment of debt, after making increasing dividend payments
to GOB. The debt/equity ratio would improve to 61/39 in FY97. Debt service
coverage, at 2.2 times when full debt service becomes due in FY97, would be
adequate. LPGL's expected sales volumes, the assumptions used in the financial
forecasts, and overall financial requirements during the construction and full
commissioning period of the Project (FY92-96) are presented in Annex 4.2. The
salient features of LPGL's FY91-97 consolidated financial forecasts are given
in Table 4.3 below.
Table 4.8: LPGL'S CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS (FY91-97)
(In Tk Million)
FY              1991    1992    1998    1994      1996      l998      1997
Gross Salos Rovenuo       140.0   192.0   230.4    786.3   1,848.4   1,429.8   1,616.1
Loee: Raw Materials        89.0   100.0   102.8    265.8      449.8     476.6     605.4
Excise Duties          9.9    11.9    14.8     51.7      91.0      98.6      102.8
Not Sales Revenue          49.1    80.1   118.      458.4     807.6     968.0     907.4
Operating Expenses                 1E5 817I.8   -160.3 325. 
Not Operating Income       28.2    62.1    81.6    308.0      482.6     472.6   479.6
Interest Charged           (6.9)   (6.2)   (6-6)   (44.9)   (129.9)   (159.0)   (164.9)
Interest Received           2.6     6.7    18.0      41.5      81.6     100.1     117.8
Exchange Losses              -       -      (0-8)    (8.3)    (26.4)    (34.2)    (6. 6)
Incom Tax                   5      2         X     (148.1)   (203.2
Net Profit                 12.4    38    48.        148.1  ~208.U   71i92~U   __
Return on
Not Fixed Aossta (U)
Aftoer Tax               26.9    84.2    62.7    21.2       17.6      16.6      16.8
Current Ratio               8.8     8.4     3.8      3.1       4.1       5.8       6.6
Debt/Equity Ratio         68/44   61/89   72/28   67/33      64/36     68/87     61/89
Debt Service Coverage
Times                     8.7    6.0       8.4     7.1       4.9       4.4       2.2
4.14      To ensure LPGL's overall financial viability, agreements were reached
with GOB and LPGL that: (a) GOB's pricing policies for LPG should enable LPG
revenues to cover LPGL's operating expenses, debt service, additional working
capital requirements and a contribution to LPGL's investment of not less than



* 25 -
35Z; (b) LPGL would not incur any debt in any fiscal year without prior
consultation with IDA, if the projected debt service coverage in that or any
future year would be less than 1.5 times; (c) surplus cash resources from LPG
operations would first be used to meet the requirements of those operations;
and (d) LPGL would not declare any dividend or transfer profits to GOB or BPC
in any FY unless LPGL's own financial requirements have been adequately met.
C. Financial Internal Rate of Return tPIRR)
4.15     The FIRR was calculated on the same incremental basis as for the
economic internal rate of return (para. 5.08), based on the financial
projections ,tnd assumptions described in Annexes 4.1 and 4.2. Depreciation and
interest have been excluded and income taxes included. All cash streams have
been deflated by the projected inflation in Bangladesh to reflect 1991
purchasing power. The Project's FIRR is 352 for the NGL portion and 19X for
the bottling and distribution portion (Annex 4.3). A sensitivity analysis
shows that under a combination of adverse circumstances (i.e., capital and
operating expenditures up 10? and revenues down 102), the FIRR in real terms
would be 281 for the NOL operations and 13? for the bottling and distribution.
In addition to the annual income tax payments made by LPGL and RPGCL, after
FY93 LPGL should be able to make substantial contributions to GOB from the
company's large profits.
D. Resource Mobilization
4.16     The Project's timely implementation and operation should result in
substantial financial benefits to GOB. GOB's receipts from customs duties and
taxes, excise duties, income tax payments, distributed profits, and debt
service on the onlent IDA Credit will far exceed GOB's contribution to the
Project and interest payments to IDA. Table 4.4 estimates the net resources
accruing to GOB over the FY92-97 period, when the Project would have been in
full operation for only 3.5 years (mid-FY94 to PY97). Annex 4.4 provides the
annual resource mobilization estimates, disaggregated between RPGCL and LPGL.
Table 4.4: ESTIMATE Of THE PROJECT'S RESOURCE MOBILIZATION IMPACT (FY92-97)
Tk Million        USI MlIlIon
Income Tax                         1065                80.2
Distrlbuted Profits                 682                19.6
Excise Duties                       g86                10.6
Debt Service
Principal Repayment*              699                17.2
Interest                         1204                84.6
Custom Outis and Other Taxes        722                20.7
4628               i8.
Less:
GOB Contrlbution to the ProJect    1410                40.4
Interest on IDA Credit               76                 2.2
Net Benefits: FY92-97     Q
4.17    Transfer prices of LPG ex-RPGCL and ex-ERL are to be the same.
However, since ERL's LPG production costs would be lower than those costs from
natural gas, ERL would be expected to have higher profits. Thus, GOB should be



- 26 -
able to capture these additional benefits through ERL's income tax and proflt
distribution. Furthermore, any increase in the retail price for LPG and other
petroleum products under the Project would provide a margin for increased
fiscal benefits for GOB. The financial forecasts indicate that both RPGCL and
LPGL would have substantial cash balances after the facilities commence to
operate. If these resources are not used for expansion, they could be used for
the prepayment of debt and thereby made available to the economy.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Demand Forecasts and Market Development
5.01    Natural Gas Demand.  The supply of LPG is linked to the demand for
natural gas, from which LPG is recovered. At present, the relevant incremental
gas demand forecast is for the Titas Franchise Area (TFA), which will be driven
mainly by the consumers to be linked to the north-south gas transmission
pipeline and the Brahmaputra Basin gas transmission and distribution network.
When the proposed Ashuganj-Bakhrabad interconnecting gas transmission pipeline
becomes operational around 1995/96, the incremental gas demand forecast would
be increased by the addition of the Bakhrabad Franchise Area (BFA). These
large TFA and BFA gas consumers in the power and fertilizer sectors are already
under construction or committed in the 4th FYP, and the gas infrastructure
requirements are in turn reflected in the sequence of priority investments for
the oil and gas sector agreed under the ESAC (para. 1.25). By the mid-199Os,
the TFA's incremental gas demand is estimated at 150 million cubic feet per day
(MOCFD). Since the ten Titas wells are already at full production, the
northeastern gas fields would serve as the incremental gas supply source. The
40,000 mtpy of LPG to be distributed under the Project would be recovered from
existing and committed gas wells. Up to 100,000 mtpy of LPG could be recovered
as further gas appraisal and development becomes necessary during the 1990s to
meet forecast long-term gas demand.
5.02    LPG Demand.  There is a substantial suppressed demand for LPG,
particularly in the west zone where kerosene supplies are limited and irregular
and fuelwood shortages are most acute. Kerosene alone accounts for about 30Z
of Bangladesh's petroleum product consumption (Anrex 1.2), and the bulk of
kerosene supplies stays in the east zone (Annex 5. .). Only about 20Z reaches
the energy-short northwest region, mostly in Baghaoari, which is accessible
only for part of the year due to draft restrictions during the dry season.
Rangpur receives almost no kerosene supplies. Consequently, IDA consultant
studies during Project preparation concluded that LPG will remain supply-
constrained even at the estimated level of 100,000 mtpy by 2000, taking into
account (a) the unevenly distributed kerosene supply and consumption of around
500,000 mtpy growing at an average annual rate of rbout 61 (Annex 5.2), and
(b) the shortages and high prices of commercial fuelwood.
5.03    LPG Market Development.  The LPG Feasibility Study prepared a market
development plan on the basis of full gas development throughout Bangladesh and
hence maximum LPG supplies. Subsequent IDA missions reviewed these plans with
GOB, Petrobangla and BPC, focussing on the initial LPG volumes under the
Project, which would be marketed mainly in the northwest. Until the proposed
Jamuna Bridge is built, the LPG cylinders would be ferried from Bhuapur (about



- 27 -
15 km from Elenga) to Sirajgenj, Rangpur, Bogra and Baghabari. Onward cylinder
distribution to dealers will be b7 trucks, using the road transport network
being improved under the IDA-financed Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project (Cr. 1827-BD). Transport from dealers to retailers would also be
facilitated by the network of access roads in the northwest supported by the
Rural Roads and Markets Improvement Project (Cr. 1940-BD). A deposit system
will be established for the LPG cylinders, as currently practiced for the 5.000
mtpy of LPG produced at the refinery in Chittagong. A key component of the
distribution system for cylinders and stoves will be the involvea'ent of the
private sector and Bangladeshi women entrepreneurs (paras. 3.12 and 3.23). A
dated covenant under the Project is the preparation and implementation of a
detailed LPG market development plan, which would incorporate the pilot results
of the Women in Development TA component.
5.04    The condensate products would be marketed by the BPC marketing
companies and distributed by the private sector under existing arrangements or
exported by BPC. The local markets for the motor spirit and kerosene would be
served initial-! from the BPC depots at Ashuganj, Fatullah and Chandpur. Using
ERL vessels, the small amounts of diesel would be transported to the Eastern
Refinery Limited (ERL) in Chittagong for blending to specifications. The
surplue propane would be sold to the private sector, which will be responsible
for retail distribution (para. 3.12).
B. Least-Cost Alternatives
5.05    Domestic LPG recovery is the least-cost option compared to LPG and
kerosene imports (Annex 5.3). A cost-effectiveness analysis was also conducted
to compare the alternatives of barging the LPG from Ashuganj to Baghabari and
Khulna, or transporting the entire LPG supply by pipeline to the Jamuna Bridge
site. It was determined that LPG transport by pipeline is the least-cost
option, since the land and right-of-way has already been obtained under the
Brahmaputra Basin gas project (para. 3.08). Pipeline transport would also
provide greater security of supply and assurance of environmental and
operational safety. During Project preparation, an important objective for
technical design was to minimize downstream costs by: (a) making full use of
existing or committed infrastructure; (b) maximizing involvement of existing
and experienced institutions, e.g., by drawing on the competitive local private
sector for transport and women in small commercial enterprises for retail
distribution; and (c) identifying least-cost options for capital items.
C. Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
5.06    The EIRR for the Project (Annex 5.4) was calculated on an incremental
basis, i.e., capturing the additional costs and benefits resulting from the
change in technology choice for drying gas recommended by studies under SGDP.
Gas dehydration is a necessary process to deliver pipeline quality gas. The
dehydration systems considered during SGDP appraisal were based on silica gel
units, which would yield only condensates. An alternative option would be
molecular sieve-turboexpander (MSTE) dehydration systems, which would permit



- 28 -
the recovery of LPG as well and a marginally higher amount of condensatea.N
The MSTE systems, however, are more costly and will require the downstream
transport and distribution investments to be financed under the Project. The
incremental EIRR approach would be applicable in this case since the economic
justification for SGDP as originally designed, i.e., as a producer of natural
gas and condensates but not LPG, remains valid.V'
5.07    Project benefits were valued in terms of the CIP border price of the
kerosene equivalent, i.e., adjusted by a factor of 1.3 to reflect the higher
combustion efficiency of LPG and the mechanical losses inherent in the retail
marketing of kerosene. This may be a conservative figure, as field studies
under the TA component of the Project are expected to yield a range of 1.5 to
1.6, which would further enhance the Project's economic justification and
provide an empirical basis for future derivation of LPG transfer and retail
prices (para. 1.16). The small amounts of surplus propane were also similarly
valued, although the private sector has expressed interest in marketing propane
for higher-value industrial processes. Marginal increases in motor spirit were
valued at the FOB price of gasoline, to be exported after upgrading in the
surplus reformer capacity at the refinery. Savings in domestic kerosene
transport from ERL to northwest depots were also counted as benefits.
5.08    The Project's EIRR is 201, based on the following highly conservative
assumptions. First, international product prices based on Bank forecasts at
Project appraisal in July 1990 were used, as well as a crude oil price of about
US$18/barrel (bbl), or around US$130/mt, increasing in real terms by around 21
per year to almost US$20/barrel by the year 2000. Crude oil price levels,
however, peaked at US$40/bbl (or about US$290/mt) in early 1991. Second, it
was also assumed that there would be no pressures in product-to°crude margins,
and a low kerosene-to-crude margin (US$50/mt) was used in the EIRR calculation.
However, it is expected that these margins would increase due to the demand for
kerosene outpacing the capacity of the worldwide refining industry to increase
the production of middle distillates, especially kerosene. Middle distillate
demand is spiralling in rapidly developing Asian economies in particular.
Third, no commercial fuelwood substitution was assumed, although this may be
expected to occur in urban and peri-urban areas in the west zone. The economic
value is fuelwood is considerably higher than its financial price, which is
almost quadruple the price of kerosene on a useful energy basis.
V   The MSTE option was reviewed in December 1989 by SGDP's infrastructure
design consultants, taking into account the results of the reservoir
studies and fluids analyses conducted in 1988 and 1989.
/   The EIRR for SGDP is 901 based on the economic value of the substitute fuel
mix and 601 based on the long-run marginal cost of gas and a depletion
premium. The almost three-year delay in implementation meant that there
were no major capital expenditures until 1988, which is effectively the
SGDP start-up date. With respect to the key parameters for the economic
analysis of SGDP, there have been no significant cost overruns to date, and
gas demand is expected to exceed appraisal forecasts due to the lower
reserves at the Bakhrabad field.



- 29 -
D. Sensitivity Analysis
5.09    An overrun of 20? in capital and operating costs would decrease the
EIRR to 161, although this is not expected due to the standard, off-the-shelf
nature of the key equipment involved. A slow market penetration at 50? of
projected rates for the first five years would decrease the EIRR to 12?, which
is unlikely due to the high suppressed demand for LPG, particularly in the west
zone (para. 5.02), and the prior preparation of a detailed LPG market
development plan (para. 5.03). A 2-year delay in the LPG coming on stream
would result in an EIRR of 14Z. Delays in LPG supplies, however, are unlikely
since investments on the LPG-related facilities would not be undertaken unless
SGDP facilities are nearing completion, thus ensuring LPG availability.
Consequently, processing of the LPG Project is closely linked to progress in
SGDP implementation (para. 3.26).
5.10    Project economics are robust, considering the conservative assumptions
used and the sensitivity analysis showing tht unlikely negative events would
not reduce the EIRR below 122. However, more realistic assumptions on the
valuation of Project benefits (e.g., higher coefficient for the kerosene
equivalent of LPG, commercial fuelwood substitution, upward pressures on
international kerosene prices), would increase significantly the Project's
EIRR. In view of the recent events in the Gulf and two previous oil shocks,
the development of the gas subsector and recovery of natural gas liquids to
substitute for imported oil is of critical importance to Bangladesh.
E. Justification for Bank Group Involvement
5.11    IDA's involvement in the Project would build on the pilot LPG component
of the Refinery Modification Project by assisting GOB, Petrobangla and BPC in
the least-cost development of LPG supplies and the strengthening of their
capabilities in LPG operations. IDA would pursue LPG pricing reforms initiated
under the refinery project by assisting GOB in establishing economically and
financially sound LPG pricing policies. In support of GOB's policy, IDA would
play a catalytic role in encouraging private sector involvement, b1J.1_ng on
the private LPG joint venture under the refinery project. The Project would
complement SGDP and facilitate the optimization of future petroleum sector
investments by establishing a joint Petrobangla/BPC planning perspective, since
LPGINGL recovery and distribution need to be coordinated with gas production.
IDA would also play a pioneering role in TA related to promoting environmental
and operational safety, more efficient cooking devices, and the role of
Bangladeshi women in the retail distribution of LPG cylinders and stoves. The
Project is consistent with the ESAC's investment planning, institutional and
pricing policy reform framework. The Project is part of the FY90-92 Priority
Investment Program agreed under the ESAC for Petrobangla and BPC.



- 30 -
VI. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01    During negotiations, the following agreements were reached with GOB:
(a) GOB willt (i) review transfer and retail prices annually and adjust
these to comply with financial viability objectives, or economic
efficiency criteria, whichever is higher; (ii) ft!lly put into effect
the applicable prices by the time the incremental LPG supplies come on
stream; and (iii) establish a uniform tranufer price from LPG producers
to LPG bottlers throughout Bangladesh (paras. 1.16 and 1.18);
(b) GOB will submit to IDA the report of the Comptroller and Auditor
General within nine months after the end of each fiscal year
(para. 2.11);
(c) GOB will adhere to the procedures for the operation and audit of the
Special Account (para. 3.17);
(d) GOB will take all actions necessary to facilitate the RPGCL and LPGL
financial restructuring action programs tparas. 4.06 and 4.12);
(e) GOB will finance all future CNG feasibility and pilot projects as a
100Z GOB equity contribution as from the date of transfer of CNG
operations to RPGCL (para. 4.07); and
(f) GOB will price NGL products and LPG so as to enable RPGCL and LPGL to
earn NGL and LPG revenues, respectively, sufficient to cover their
respective operating expenses, debt service, additional working capital
requirements and a minimum 35? contribution to expansion (paras. 4.09
and 4.14);
6.02    During negotiations, the following agreements were reached with RPGCLs
(a) RPGCL's staffing plan (para. 2.04), training programs and
implementation schedules (para. 2.12);
(b) RPGCL will enter into an agreement with the Titas Gas Transmission and
Distribution Company for supervising the maintenance of RPGCL's
pipelines (para. 2.06);
(c) RPGCL willt (i) maintain separate accounts for its CNG and NGL
divisions, and the IDA-financed Project (para. 2.09); (ii) appoint
independent auditors satisfactory to IDA; and (iii) submit to IDA
copies of the unaudited financial statements, including Project
accounts and analytical accounts for each cost center, not less than
three months after the end of each fiscal year, and copies of the
audited statements with the report and comments of the Commercial
Auditor, not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year
(para. 2.11);
(d) RPGCL's TA/training terms of reference and dated covenants to review
the recommendations of the studies and agree on an implementation plan
(para. 3.06);



- 31 
(e) RPGCL will offer for sale to the private sector the propane at Ashuganj
(para. 3.12)g
(f) RPGCL will undertake a financial restructuring action program for its
CNG°related operations by FY92 to be reflected in its opening balance
sheet of June 30, 1992 (para. 4.06); and
(g) RPGCL will adhere to the following financial performance targets:
(i) RPGCL's debt./equity ratio will at all times not exceed 65/35 after
FY94; (ii) RPGCL will not incur debt in any FY without prior
consultation with IDA, if the debt service coverage in that year and in
any future year will be less than 1.5 times; (iii) surplus cash
resources from NGL operations will first be used to meet the
requirements of those operations, and RPGCL will not declare a dividend
or make any transfer of profits to GOB or Petrobangla in any FY unless
RPGCL's own financial requirements have been adequately met; and
(iv) RPGCL will review with IDA by March 31 each year its annual
capital expenditure for the following FY and the related financing
requirements, and the related financing requirements (para. 4.09).
6.03    During negotiations, the following agreements were reached with LPGL:
(a) LPGL's staffing plan (para 2.08), training programs and implementation
schedules (para 2.12);
(b) LPGL will: (i) maintain separate accounts for its Elenga, Kailashtila
and Chittagong operations, and the IDA-financed Project (para. 2.09);
(ii) appoint independent auditors satisfactory to IDA; and (iii) submit
to IDA copies of the unaudited financial statements, including Project
accounts and analytical accounts for each cost center, not less than
three months after the end of each fiscal year, and copies of the
audited statements with the report and comments of the Commercial
Auditor, not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year
(para. 2.11);
(c) LPGL's TA/training terms of reference and dated covenants to review the
recommendations of the studies and agree on an implementation plan
(para. 3.06);
td) LPGL will undertake a capital restructuring plan to reduce the
debt/equity ratio of its Chittagong operations to not more than 65/35
(para. 4.12);
(e) LPGL willt () maintain as from FY95 a debt/equity ratio not exceeding
65135 on its consolidated operations; (ii) periodically review with
IDA, as from FY92, its annual depreciation rates and adjust these in
line with those commonly practiced within the industry; and
(iii) review with IDA, each year by March 31, its capital expenditure
program for the following FY and the related financial requirements
(para. 4.12); and
(f) LPGL will adhere to the following financial performance targets: (i)
LPGL will not incur any debt in any fiscal year without prior
consultation with IDA, if the oebt service coverage in that year or any



- 32 -
future year is less than 1.5 times: and (ii) surplus cash resources
from LPG operations will first be used to meet the requirements of
those operations, and LPGL will not declare any dividend or make any
transfer of profits to GOB or BPC in any fiscal year, unless LPGL's own
financial requirements have been adequately met (para. 4.14).
6.04    Before Credit effectiveness, the following actions should be completed:
(a) contract award by RPGCL and LPGL for the infrastructure design and
implementation supervision consultancy services (para 3.07);
(b) conclusion of respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements between GOB and
RPGCL, and between GOB and LPGL (para. 3.11); and
(c) contract award for the LPG recovery facilities under the Second Gas
Development Project (para. 3.26); and
(d) GOB approval of the Project Proforua.
6.05    With the above agreements and assurances, the proposed Project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 49.8 million
(US$67.2 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity to
the People's Republic of Bangladesh.



BANGLADESH: LPG TRANSPORT AND DISTRIUTION PROJECT
SECrORAL SHARES IN PETROLEUM PRODUCTS CONSUMPTON, 1984185-1988f89
dousand metric tons and %
Fiscal Year                                1984/85           1985/86          1986/87           1987/88           1988/89
Tanmspot                                        570   37%         610   37%        620   38%         650   38%        675   37%
ReJdential/Commercial                           315   21%        325   20%         309   19%         447   26%        529   29%
Power                                           286   19%        310   19%         30.5   19%        261   15%        200   11%
ydstiy                                          210   14%        235   14%         213   13%         148    9%         161    9%
Agriculltre                                     150   10%         170   10%        180   11%         186   11%        250   14N
.S.o u3                                                    1 5 5 0   1 0 0 %   1 6 2 7   1 0 0 1Ba2            it9eL   2
Source: Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation



BANGLADESH: LPG TRANSPORT AND DISTRIBUTON PROJECT
FUEL SHARES IN PEMROLEUM PRODUCTS CONSUMPTON, 19W85-1991/92
in thousand metric  ns and %
AVERAE GROVIH
RATE (5)
1984185            1985/86           1986/87            1987/88            1988189             19       - ,9U
Hi* Oftmamine leaagcompmneaa                       7.40   0.5         8.40   0.55        9.40   0.6S        9.75   0.6%       11.10   0.6%             10.75
Motor Spit                                        52.00   3.5        56.20   3.6        59.00   3.9        01.65   3.8%       68.73   4.0               7.26
idt Perl                                          74.20   5.0        71.50   4.6        77.70   5.1        78.93   4.95       79.79   4.7%              1.93
SupeR K     ne  Oil                              363.20  24.3       396.40  25.3       402.10  26.4       419.62  26.1       476.12  27.8%              7.10
High Speed Dnia Oil                              608.60  40.7       653.50  41.7       692.10  45.4       708.35  44.05      847.44  49.5%              8.82
LIJt Diced Oil                                    17.90   1.2        13.70   0.9        12.90   0.8        11.94   0.7%        8.67   0.5             -16.03
H4gh Sulphur Furnee 0il                          365.20  24.4       358.90  22.9       262.50  17.2       309.73  19.25      209.52  12.2%            -10.74
Llquefied Peerdeum Go. (LPK)                       8.30   0.6         8.60   0.5         8.80   0.6%        9.16   0.6         9.21   0.5               2.64     s
EST.               PROJECTIONS
1989/90            1990/91      .    1991192
High Octane Iandiwa   Cvmpomint                   12.29   0.7%       13.61   0.7%       15.08   0.7
Motor SpIr                                        73.72   4.1%       79.07   4.1%       84.81   4.2
iet Pcbr                                         81.33   4.5%       82.89   4.3a       84.49   4.2
Superwor  nerosm                                 S09.93  28.3%      546.13  28.65      584.91  28.9
High Speed Diced O>1                             922.16  51.1%     1003.47  52.65     1091.94  53.9
Ugh Dlidel 01                                      7.28   0.4O        6.11   0.35        5.13   0.3%
High Suphur Furnace O11                          187.02  10.4%      166.94   8.8       149.02   7.4                                                        s
Liquefied Peardo=ur Gas a(nL)                      9.45   0.5s        9.70   0.5s        9.96   0.5
Source: Banpdesh Petroleum Corporation



BANGLADESH OIL, GAS AND MINERALS CORPORATION (PETROBANGLA)
Organization Chart of the Holding Company and Operating Companies
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR)
Petrobangla Holding Company
Bangladesh            Sylbet Gas Fields                Titas Gas Tranmission                Rupantarita Prakritik
Petroleu_ Co. Ltd.                                     and Distribution Co. Ltd.            Gas Co. Ltd.
sxploration           (SGFL)                            (TGTDC)                             (RPGCL)
Company
(lAPEl) 
VI
Bangladesh Gas Fields             Bakhrabad Gas Systems
Co. Ltd.                         Ltd.
(BGFCL)                           (BGSL)
Jalababad Gas Transmission
and Distribution Co. Ltd.
(JGTDC)
M- EIPLOR&TIOI -|       ---- PRODUCTION -----             ---  TRANSMISSION AND ----          ---- NATURAL GAS ----|
I     I                       I         I       DISTRIBUTION          I     I        LIQUIDS
Not:   The Petrobang  Holding Comny comprieso the Chairan, Board of Directors, a Secretariat and Directort for Alinistration,  u.;
Flnnce, 1i1 A Minerals Operations and Planning. A Joint Secretary ot " IEa nd a Joint Secretary of the Financo e
Dv1sn are reprented In the Petrobangla Board of Directors. Each of the seven operating companies (OC,) has Its own mo
Board of Directors and Gnenral Mnager. The OCo' Board of Directors Include Petrobangla holding company representatives but
no Goernnent representatives, as Government's control Is *xerclsed through the holding company.
0.



BANGLADESH PETROLEUM CORPORATION (BPC)
Organization Chart of the Holding Company and Operating Companies
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR)
I
BPC Holding Company
Ltd.   I    ~ etroleumGas                          Co.  td.                            Bleners Ltc|
Eastern Refinery               Liquefied                        Jamuna Oil                          Eastern Lubricants
_Ltd.                         _Petroleum Gas                     Co. Ltd.                             Blenders Ltd.
(EEL)              I          1Ltd.                             (JOC)                               (ELBL)
(LPGL)
Meghna Petroleum Co.                Standard Asiatic
tMOC)                               Oil Co._
(SAOC)
Padma Oil Co.
(POC)
REFINING  |-|-LPG BOTTLING-1                                      MARKETING -----j     LUBRICANTS ----
l            l         | &~~~~1  MARKETING  I           I                                         & BLENDING
Note:   The BPC holding comFny comprisme the Chairman, Board of Directors, a Secrotariat and Diroectors for Finance, Marketing and
Planning & Operations. A Joint Secretary of MEUR and a Joint Secretary of the Finance Division are reprosented in the
BPC Board of Directors. Each of the seven operating companies (OCn) has Its own Board of Directors and General Manager.     0 
The OCs' Board of Directors lnclWde PC holding company reprosentativos but no Government represontatives, as Government        x
control Is exercised through the holding company.                                                                           rv



- 37 -                           ANNEX 1.4
Page 1 of 3
BANGLADESH
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (LPG) TRANSPORT AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LPG Transfer and Retail Pricing
1.         The build-up of transfer and retail prices for LPG should comply with
economic efficiency criteria as well as ensure financial viability of the
entities involved in extraction/fractionation, transport, bottling, marketing
and retail distribution. In Bangladesh, conditions may arise when financial
viability objectives would dictate the LPG price build-up. i.e., the price
levels based on financial criteria would be higher than the economic price
benchmarks. This note provides the basic principles for deriving applicable
transfer and retail prices for LPG in Bangladesh.
Economic Efficiency Criteria
2.         In principle, the estimation of the economic price of LPG is
straightforward. If LPG were to be imported, its economic transfer price as an
internationally traded commodity should be set at the imported LPG price (CIF
Chittagong), adjusted for: (i) adequate storage to guarantee a level of
continuous supply that is comparable to the domestic LPG re,-)very option; and
(ii) the scarcity value of foreign exchange, if applicable. In Bangladesh,
where domestic LPG recovery is the least-cost supply option compared to LPG or
kerosene imports, the transfer price between Petrobangla and BPC should cover
the economic costs of the capital plant, natural gas use and shrinkage and non-
energy operating costs. The economic transfer price so defined is a minimum
level. However, as LPG and kerosene (the imported substitute fuel) are
tradeable commodities, there may be reasons for adjusting this LPG transfer
price toward the border price of the kerosene equivalent. This difference (an
economic rent) likely would need to be allocated to cover financial costs,
which as indicated above would be higher than economic benchmarks. If the
difference is great enough (as may be the case in future Kailashtila LPG
development), some of this rent may be captured through a special excise tax or
some other mechanism. Once the transfer price is determined, the economic
retail price for the final user could be estimated by adding to this transfer
price the economic costs of storage, transport, bottling, marketing and
distribution. Retail pricing of LPG should provide flexibility to adjust
prices when upstream and/or downstream costs change.
3.         The economic pricing benchmarks could be further fine-tuned to take
into account factors such as: (i) consumer surpluses due to the superior end-
use characteristics of LPG as compared to kerosene and fuelwood; (ii) level and
allocation of economic rents, i.e., the difference between LPG production costs
and its economic value; and (iii) the need to prevent uneconomic end-uses
(e.g., in the transport sector).



- 38 -                            ANNEX 1.4
Page 2 of 3
Financial Transfer Prices and Margins
4.         The transfer prices and margins for each company participating in the
production, transport and distribution of LPG should be set, and maintained
over time, at levels that (i) ensure coverage of operating costs, debt service
and applicable taxes and duties, and (ii) provide a reasonable return on equity
for their LPG investments under efficient operations. To apply this pricing
principle, a number of issues need to be addressed and decisions taken, as
discussed below.
5.         Definition of the Institutional Set-up.  The organization for
production is fairly straightforward, involving the refinery and other
Petrobangla operating company(ies) as other gas field sources are developed.
On the downstream side, however, LPG transportation and distribution are
expected to involve a combination of LPGL, joint venture(s) with the private
sector, full private sector ownership and operation, and/or subcontracted
private transport companies. A decision on the organization of downstream LPG
activities is required in order to define the transfer prices and margins for
participating companies.
6.         Uniform Transfer Price.  Petrobangla's production cost for LPG is
likely to be higher than that of the refinery. Since the same downstream
company(ies) may take LPG from both sources, it would be practical to have one
nationwide transfer price between upstream and downstream operations,
irregardless of where LPG is produced. This would require a decision to
increase ERL's current ex-refinery price for LPG, as well as the mechanisms for
allocating the accruing economic rent.
7.         Operating Costs (OC).  OCs would cover gas used in the LPG production
process, utilities, maintenance (spares, etc.), labor, plant depreciation, etc.
Further, OC estimates per metric ton of LPG would be based on normal inputs and
outputs, under efficient operations, for the type of LPG plant selected.
8.         Debt Service.  Interest estimates for IDA funds would be based on the
onlending rate plus the expected cost of covering the foreign exchange risk.
Amortization of debt should be covered by plant depreciation, but the cash
flows should be studied, as the depreciation and amortization schedules are
likely to differ.
9.         Taxes and Duties.  These include income taxes, customs duties for
imported equipment and materials, and excise duties on process gas, condensates
and LPG.
10.        Return on Equity.  This return is normally expected to exceed the
cost of borrowed funds (e.g., at least 12Z plus the foreign exchange risk).
The private sector is likely to require over 20X. Thus, it is necessary to
define the form and extent of private sector participation and expectations for
return on equity.



- 39 -                            ANNEX 1.4
Page 3 of 3
II.        Efficient Operations.  The gas compositions and plant design would be
the basis for establishing standards on inputs and outputs (e.g., quantity of
process gas, spares, down time for service, number of staff employed and metric
tons of LPG and condensates produced). To encourage efficient operations, the
LPG producer would benefit if production exceeds standards and/or if costs are
lower.
12.        Adjustment and Maintenance of Prices and Margins.  The physical
standards (para. 11) could change if proved inadequate (e.g., changes in plant
configuration). Further, cost increases may occur (e.g., for labor, spares,
utilities, taxes and duties, debt service) due to general inflation, GOB
decisions and/or currency devaluation. In case of major unit cost increases
that are not due to lower productivity, the transfer prices and margins would
have to be recalculated. As long as domestic LPG recovery remains the least-
cost supply option compared to LPG and kerosene imports, the transfer prices
and margins should be reviewed once a year and adjusted if this review
indicates an increase of at least 10.
July 1990
Dhaka, Bangladesh



BANGLADESH: LPG TRANSPORT AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
PETROLEUM PRODUCT RETAIL PRICES (February to October 1990)
FY90                                    bl
Eat              RPatl Prices (kitnr)                              Totb Sale. Value CU MM)
Poduct                   Sales      Frb 90    Apr 90        SOc 90    ct 90          Feb 90      AOc90       Sep 90       Ct 90
(10^6 lit)
LPG                    9,000.0 a/    131.00    131.00      180.00    200.00
HOEC    at                16.8         8.18      8.58       10.20      14.95          137.4       144.1       171.4       251.2
Motor Spirit            104.9          7.80      8.20       9.20       14.90          818.2       860.2       965.1      1,563.0
Kerosene                646.6          6.87      7.37       9.20       14.00        4,442.1     4,765.4      5,948.7     9,052.4
Dies                   1,093.7         6.90      7.30       9.20       14.00        7,546.5     7,984.0    10,062.0    1S,311.8               1
Fucl 0il                202.4          4.70      5.10       5.60       7.41           951.3     1,032.2      1,133A      1,499.8
Totd, cxc LPG          2,064.4                                                     13,895.6    14,786.0    18,280.6    27,678.2
Weigted Average Prices (1rklit):  cl                  Increse fiom Previous te (%):
Feb 90                    6.7
Apr 90                    7.2                                7.5
Scp 90                    8.9                               23.6
Oct 90                   13.4                               51.4
Notes:         a/ High-octne blending component
b/ Metric tons
d  For LPG, in Tk per 12.5 kilogram cylinder
d/ Excluding th smal amount of LPG
Source: Bangladesh Petroleum Corporaton



RUPANTARITA PRAXRITIt GAS COMPANY LIMITED (RPGCL)
Proposed Organization Chart
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL MANAGER              SECRETARIAT
ADMINISTRATION                         NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS                                COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS
AND FINANCE                            DIVISION                                           DIVISION
DMSION
-  Accounts                            -  Processing                                         Conversion Workshop
-  Audit                               -  Plant Operations                                   Pilot Program
-  Finance                             -  Safety                                             Planning
-Elenga
-  General Administration              -  Product Transfers -       lAshuganj
- Employee Relations
-  Services                               Technical Services
- Medical
Stores
Procurement
0.



LIQUEFIED PETROLEM GAS LIMITED (LPGL)
Proposed OrganiZL_ion Chart
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
|INTERNtLAUI|-                                          ERTL&|
GENERAL
|PERSONNEL                                           4 AAE      FINANCE 
CHITTAGONG                          RAlLASHTILA                        ELENGA 
LPG PLANT                           LPG PLANT                          LPG PLANT 
MANAGER                             MAKAGER                            MANAGER 
Plant Engineer                      Plant Engineer                      Plant Engineer
I- Oprations and Safety               Operations and Safety             [   erations and Safety
Control Section                     Control Section                     Control Section
Maintenance and Re-testing          Maintenance and Re-testing          Maintenance and Re-testing
Section                             Section                             Section
_Accounts Officer                  _Accounts Officer                      Accounts Officer                  1
r i
Administration                      A                                   Administratioo



,43-                           ANNEX 3.1
BANGLADESH
LPG TRANSPORT AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LINKAGE OF THE LPG PROJECT WITH THE SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SGDP)
1.            During the appraisal of SODP (Cr. 1586-BD), reservoir data from
the limited number of wells drilled indicated LPG recovery potential.
However, further drilling and reservoir analyses were required to assess
whether gas reserves and compositions were adequate to justify LPG
development. Of the various gas fields in Bangladesh, the reservoir studies
cofinanced by the Canadian International Development Agency under SGDP
indicated the northeastern and the Bakhrabad (BED) gas fields as having LPG
development potential. GOB's initial emphasis was on BXD, which was already
producing gas, pending completion of the reservoir studies in October 1989.
The subsequent BRD reservoir study, however, indicated remaining recoverable
BKD gas reserves of about 0.7 trillion cubic feet (TCF), or around half of
earlier estimates. Thus, long-term LPG investments at BKD are not justified
unless more reserves are proven from a new round of appraisal drilling.
2.          In addition to inadequate BKD gas reserves, two new findings under
SGDP in 1989 directed GOB's priorities to LPG development at the northern gas
fields. First, the reservoir studies indicated much higher reserves (about 4
TCF) than originally assumed (almost 2 TCF). Second, the reservoir fluids
analyses also indicated sufficient LPG fractions. As a result, in order to
maximize the economic value of the natural gas, GOB and Petrobangla opted for
gas process facilities at the northern gas fields that would permit the
extraction of LPG (i.e., molecular sieve-turboexpander units), which otherwise
would not be possible with the silica gel units originally contemplated.
3.          Thereafter, GOB and the petroleum entities decided to give
priority to investments for distributing the LPG that would become available
during the 1990s from natural gas production at the northern gas fields. The
SGDP, the LPG Project, and future appraisal/development drilling and expansion
of gas process facilities at the northern gas fields are time slices of the
oil and gas sector's Priority Investment Program agreed under the Energy
Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1999-BD) to maximize the benefits to the economy
of developing Bangladesh's hydrocarbon resources.



£90 TRANSPORT AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
WAPLEMBSTATION SCHEULE
(At 1lu1c
FFsrcasmUPNhENa JFMAMJJASO#IOJFUAMJJASONDJFMAMJJASONDJFPUAMJJ AOONBJFUAMJJAOONOJFUAMJJ ASOUDJUUAUJJ £0050
364   T2"L-21    wo Rm  As     Tit M   smia
VA&LNO                       =-     -           -   m
-T*dw*44%qngd       fm   _c-'   _w
tirew 1"        t
AM PLANYi                                                                                                      5 kIS    t oI
_~~~~~~~~~~~ma                                                                   a _r_  u
£ temfla.
- a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
LTSZIUF ffl
raw
c_    mea        t-
T. m-a_ >-c_   FC_<S_ -                           w-  -_C
-a--N~V&fvw%Tjmv
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PtA.em.rav.lan  S.aas~dcaC* P-an  -a 
ASHLAMMOG"MANS"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
gpo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 45 -                                       ANNEX 3.3
BANGLADESH - LPG TRANSPORT AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IDA Flscal Year                     Semester                                         Bank Profile
andgSemestr                    Dssent                 Cumulative  isgbursement      LAsia - PiDeIIn
(USS million)        (US$ million)     (%)                 ()
1992
December 31, 1991                       3.9                   3.9       6S                  3%
June 30,1992                             1.7                  5.6        8%                10%
1993
December 31. 1992                      12.7                  18.3      27%                 22%
June 30, 1993                            8.4                 26.7       40%                38%
1994
December 31. 1993                      14.3                 41.0        61%                46%
June 30,1994                             9.6                 50.6       75%                54%
199
December31, 1994                        6.2                  56.8       84%               '°0%
June 30, 1995                            4.1                 60.9       91%                90%
1996
December 31, 1995                       6.3                  67.2     100%                 95%
June 30,1996                          -           DISBURSED       --------                100%



III. Cowbkod CNO  wid NOL Diiong                                 BANGLADESH
RUPANTARITA PRAKRMK GAM COMPMNY LTD tRPCL)                              0t2 AM
INCOME STATEBIENTS
(In Tk mio)
1       2t            PnVl-
M Adftsd   -             Ikns
1987     19o8     199      1        191    1o2       193       994    1995      1I6      197
Si Rewu
8a.. Bale RIW                           0.0      0.0      0.1      02       0.1      0.1      0.1   6860.0   1454.1   1541.3   1033.6
Add: Cormon Chug.                       0.0      0.1      0.3      0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      C.0      0.0      0.
LOW. RW Mluhls Pucae                    0.0      0.0      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1   369.2    146.3   197.0       MA0.0
No a*s1 RIMu                            0.0      0.1      0.3      02       0.0      0.0      0.0    286.7    607.8    644.3    663.0
OpO
smlawlesand Bpewnaes                    0.7      0.6      1.3      1.7      1.7      1.8      1.9     15.6    19.1      20.3     21.5
ManagementSarvioCharge                  0.0      1.2      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      1.8      2.2      24       2.5
PRpdr.and _MaInto                       02       0.1      0.2      0.3      02       02       0.3     21.      27.2     233      : 30.6
AdmkVuldo                               0.4      0.3      0.7      0.4      0.4      0.5      0A       3.9      4.3      51       6.4
Othwrb    I                             0.1      0.1      0.0      1.0      0.4      OA       0.4      4.       5.6      5.9      62
D.pr0ed00on                             0.6      0.2      0A4      0        0.4      0.4      0.4    11.7    233.      23.6    23.6
hwoson                                 o0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      4D      15.4    2CA       31.6
TOWi OF ln Bdipenuss                    2.0      2.5      2.7      3.9      3.2      34       3.     100.2   306.0    3218    331.3
Notpern hme   ome                       -2.0    -2.4    -244    -3.7        -2        .4      -3.     120.6    2993    323.      351.7
-nthrChugd                             0.6      1.2      23       0.4      0.0      0.0      0.0     94.1    207.4    2033    187.5
its a    _ea svd                         1.1      09       23       2.6      2.7      2.7      2.7      7.5     23       49.2    67.0
IBc   g Losses                           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     1.1      248      26.0     24.0
Ndt h-on  Beflo Tax                     -0.7     -2.7    -2.4    -1.5       -0.5    -0.7    -0.9       16.6     O1.0    142.4   207.1
Proviion or Tax      C0.0%               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    10.0    46.2       72.0    104.4    
Nutlhiom   ArTax                        -0.7    -2.7    -2.4       -1.5    -0.5    -0.7       -03       49      44.      70.4    102.7           D
Retu  n ha". Not Fbod A_"                                                                                                                        ° 
AftrTaF                                -39%    -24%      -256    -37       -2       43%      -39%      10%     12%       13%     15              h
N;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
Notsw
Il For 12 moni peiod endin Decenbe 311987.
21 For 12 month perod ending June 30. IM8.
19-Apr41



BANGLADESH
RUPANTARITA PRAKRITIK GAS COMPANY LTD (RPGCL)                                  08:82 AM
BALANCE SHEETS
(in Tk mhlllon)
It      21             PnM-      Altw
Aiuded -             doal  RPatim
1967     988    1980    1960    1960    loci    1992    1993          194    1995    1996    1997
ASETS
Fbd A_f
OwnFlmd A_t.                          12.9    13.0    13.0    13.9    13S         13.9    13.9    13.9   2279.0   2345.3   2345.3   2345.3
L1 Aecudsed 0DsprwMm                   2.7      2.9      3.3      3.6      3.6      4.0     4.4      4.6    118.5   352.1      5.0 6    19.2
No Rxd Aseb                            102     10.1      9.7    10.3    10.3        0.0     9.5      0.1   2160.5   19932    1759.7   1St.1
1UM _hsms                                                                          122.7   122.7    122.7   122.7   122.7   122.7    122.7
Lm amE     GrB *                                                                   122.7   122.7    122.7   122.7   122.7   12.7    122.7
No                                                                                  0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0              j
Wk hi Plow                              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    163.7   66.61      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
n hwi  Chwgs                           40.       3 434   43.4    43.4       0.0      0.0      4.6    24.4    72.3    i0sA    111.9    60.3
Coh  id B* bns                         19.3    21.7    22.6    24.7    24.7    24.?    24.7    24.7   140.9    36.0    65              677.
AoowsnRm     c haboms-Tnab             0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0               0.0      0.0     0.0    65.7    161.    12.7   204.2
AccoinmtPasssimb-hISsre                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0               0.0      0.0     0.0      12       5.1     11.6    16.1
owfdtluwss                             2.9      2.9      2.9      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.2     1.2    23.7    24.3    243         24.3
O0M                                     0.2     0.2      0.2      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.6      1.3     1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3
TctdCwrrMasts                          22.4    24A      25.7    28.0    26.0       2.0    26.7    27.2   256.7    597.5    9.         1123.
TOTAL ASSETS                           7.4      78.3    786       79.7    36.       35.9   204.7   747.4   2491.    2602    27.4   27302
0.
19-APr-el



BANGLADESH
RUPANTAFITA P TIK GM  COMPANY LTD (RPGCL)                                        02 AM
BALANCE SHEETS
(n Tk millin)
it      21             PmW-      Aftr
Auditod               dosna   Red=
1967    l198      iou      logo     Iou     1991    1=      1e3      1994     i        io       1997
EQUI  a IABILITIES
Cqi                                    26.4     26.4    25.4      25.4     34.3      9.0      0.6    1733    691.7   6M3        m.o    690.6
Retined Eninp                           0.0      0.0    -2.4    -2.8        0.0      0.0      00       0.0     10.0    66.1    128.1    232.5
Totil Eqdty                            26.4     26.4     23.0     22.6     34.3    33.0    60.6   1733    701.7    7476    819.0    9o.0
Lan Term Deb
IDA                                    34.1     34.1     34.1     342       0.0      0.0    141.9    571.7   O921    1094.7   1149.A   10602
ADP                                    10.     14.0    16.0      172       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   746.9    663.6    m2    406.8
Tmdd Lon Tam DM                        44.4     48.1     60.1     51.4      0.0      0.0    141.    571.7   1690.0   17483   1710.1   1627.0 $
Cwm0 Ub_N
Ao_mbPay"                               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0               0.0      0.0      0.0     73.9    1603    16.3    1ess
I enwYTex Payabb                        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0               0.0      0.0      0.0     10.0     462      72.0    104.4
cUOim                                   3.6      43       5.7      5.7      2.0      2.0      2.2      2.5      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0
Tti CumraUalm                           3a6      4.8      6.7      h7       2.0      2.0      2.2      2       60.9    203.4    238.2   280.2
TOTAL EITY & LUBITIEB                   73.4    78.3      788      79.7     36.3     35.9    204.7    747     2491.b   26992   2767.4   27302
Rag=
CuffedRsio                              6.2      6.2      4.5      4.6     13.0    13.0    12.1       1O        2.       2.9      3.8      4.0
LT OdfDsM  Equity                     l.6B     66.4%    UM       69.4%     0.0%     0.0%    70.1%    76.7%    70.8%    70.1%    67.0%    92.3%
~I. 
00
0.
00
19-Apr-01



BAGWLADESH
RUPANTARITA PRAXRMK GAS COMPANY LTD (RPGCL)
FUNDS FLOW SrATEMENTS                                                 08:52 AM
On Tk minion)
1I      21             ProNi-  Reetuc
-       AUdited -          rEnal  -.tUdnRg                                                                TOTAL
1987    low      1980     1        1          1      1992    198      1994     1905    199o      197 FY92-0
SOURCES
NotOpwang Incom                         0.0      0.0    -2.4      -3.7             42       -3A      4.6    120.5    299.9    322.6   351.7    413.4
Add Nan-Oh Itnm:
DeprecktIe                             2.7      0.2      0.4      OA                0.4     0.4      0.4   113.7   233.8   233.6    233.6    348.1
AfAmtlaon                              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0               0.0     0.0      0.0      4.9     1S.4    25.8    31.6    20.3
Ib_n Cash StrwatI                       2.7      0.2    -2.0    -33                -2.8     4.0      -3.2   239.0    548.9    581.8    66.8    781.8
nlae ReeId                              0.0      0.0      2.9      2.6              2.7      2.7      2.7      7.6    23.3      49.2    67.0     30.2
NeLono-Term  aawbig                    44.4      37       2.0      2.6              0.0    135.0   406.7  1097.1    117.9    20.1        0.0   17568
e lhg. Los                              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0              0.0      6.9    23.1    30.1       24.8    26.0    24.0    84.9
quftcoantbu                            25.4      0.0      0.0      0.0               0.1    27.3   113.6    519.6       0.9     1.1       1.3   661.4
CamwdJn oDebtto Equity                                             0.0    17.2                                                                    0.0
Ownion _    O>mst AM to Equity                                              3.7                                                                   0.0
DenTed Chrgs Wdtmn O0R                                                    -43.4                                                                   0.0
GO- Grant- Pilot Scheme                      122.7                                                           0.0
TOM Samoa                             72.5      3.       2.9      1.8   -22.5    122.7   169.0   5426   189A         715A    687.3   709.1  3321.0
USES
Capit Expe_rum                         12.9      0.1      0.0      1.1              0.0   149.7   464.3  1525.1    66.3          0.0     0.0   2205.4
hUseo aOuing Coninroan                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0              0.0      7.1    35.7    38.1        0.0     0.0      0.0    30.9
0u      L Loue                          8.4      0.0      0.0      0.0     11.4     0.0      6.0    23.1    30.1       24.8    26.0    24.0    34.0
OswdChagnes                            32.4    2L         0.0      0.0    35.0      0.0      4.8     19.6    52.       51.6    29.1      0.0    128.8
pIdSchem                                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0             122.7     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Dd Saoad
AmorUiain                              0.0    o0         0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    98.4    93.4   207.1       93.4
hurI Ch8sgsd tC Io                     0.0      0.0      2.9      0.4              0.0      0.0      0.0    94.1    207.4   2033    187.5   301.5
TOal Dd   S                            0.0      0.0      2.9      0.4      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0    94.1    300.7   290.0   394.0    3049  
04~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Comu d  DdA to Equity                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    17.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Psodaon for bncm  Tm                    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0              0.0      0.0      0.0    10.0    46.2    72.0   104.4    58.1         4
PmrrlonbrCovUatudonto G                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        ,
I ep e     ha(Dersm) IW.C.             18.8      1.2      0.0      0.3     3.7      0.0      0.5      0.2   143.2    226.2    203.6    188.0   370.0
TOTAL USE                              728       3.9      2.9      1.8   -22.      122.7   169.0   842.   1893.4    715.8    687.3   709.1  3321.0
DsbtSw*.ceCm _ag                     nfa       Va        -0.7    -0.2            Wa       nla      nla         2.5      1.8     2.0      1.6      2.0
19-Apr-



- 50 -                                ANNEX 4.1
Page 5 of 8
BANGLADESH
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (LPG) TRANSPORT AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
RPGCL - Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
FY                     91       92      93      94      96      96      97
Local Inflation              ox      61      711    ox       61      6        ax
Esclelton Factor            1.09    1.177   1.260  1.JJ6   1.415   1.C00  1.590
Exchange Rto(Tik/USI)       84.9   86.6    8.4   89.7    40.7    41.6   42.6
Factor (Local-Foreign)              5.41t   4.41   8.41    2.4S    2.45   2.41
Cumulative                  1.00    1.0    1.10   1.14    1.17    1.19   1.22
1.        RPGCL will take over the assets and liabilities of CNGCL, and will
then assume responsibility for both CNG and NGL operations. When operations
are transferred to RPGCL. CNG finances will be restructured. IDA Credit 1091-
BD will be repaid and all other long term debt, and balances due to Head
Office, will be converted to equity. As from transfer date, all future CNG
feasibility and pilot projects will be financed on a 1001 grant basis. These
conditions have been reflected in the RPGCL forecasts for FY91-97. Since CNG
operations are only planned on a yearly basis, the forecasts only include
schemes for FY91.
2.        RPGCL's forecast financial requirements during FY92-95 (the
construction perio, of RPGCL's component of the proposed project) and the
sources from which they are expected to be met as as follows:
Th Million   Tk Million   US1UMlIiIon 1)   x
Raml rosnts
Capital Expenditure                    2,206.4
Interest during Construction             60.9
Exchange Losse Capitalized               46.1      2,881.4        59.9
Technical Assistance                                 126.6        8.8
Working Capital                                      8700, 9.6
2,380.2       72.7        100
Internal Cash Genration                 820.2
Lests Debt Service/Exchange Losse       484.7
Looss Incom Tax                         X. 01        820.4        6.5         12
Corrowing                                          1,641.7       47.8         66
Equity Contributions                                 6601         16.9       2s
2,680.2       72.7        100
1 Converted at an average rate of US1I,Th 86.9



- 51 -                             ANMEX 4.1
Page 6 of a
3.  Income Statements
A.  Sales Revenue:
CNG sales volumes and revenues have been based on experience In recent
years. Annual LPG and other sales volumes have been estimated as follows:
FY94            MY95-97
[----- metric tons ----I
Liquids Received              71,054            142,107
Loss Factor                      704              1,407
Output (Sales)                70.350           140,700
of whicht
LPG                           19,600            39,200
Propane                        2,050             4,100
Kerosene                      10,050            20,100
Motor Spirit                  30,350             60,700
High Speed Diesel              8,300            16,600
The initial transfer price of LPG ex-RPGCL has been assumed at US$214.2/mt.
This price has been derived from the October 1990 kerosene retail price of
14.0 Tklliter (US$660/mt), after an adjustment of 1.3 for fuel equiva-
lency, excise duties, LPGL's and dealers' costs and margins--in all
totalling US$445.8/mt. Ex-RPGCL transfer prices for other products have
been assumed to be one half of the undermentioned ez-3RL transfer prices as
of October 1990, except for propane which is priced at the same price as
LPG.
Propane             -        US$214.2/mt
Kerosene            -        US$476/mt
Motor Spirit        -         US$482/mt
High Speed Diesel  -         US$442/mt
All revenue forecasts have been maintained In real terum.
B.  Raw Materials:
The transfer price of the liquids received from SOnL has been based on
prices in similar contracts between Petrobangla ProductLon Companies and
ERL, and translates into about US$131.4/mt. This price compensates SOGL
for the additional investment incurred In the installation of plant using
turbo-expanders rather than silica-gel.
C.  Operating Expensess
CNG - maintained at current levels; depreciation has been calculated at 31
of average gross fixed nssets.
NGL - calculated according to an engineering assessmnt of RPGCL's needs
for operating the new project. Annual inflation has been taken into
account. Depreciation of plant has been calculated at 10 per year, and
amortization of deferred charges (technical assistance) at 202 per year.



- 52-                              ANNEX 4.1
Page 7 of 8
D.  Interest Charged:
Onlent IDA funds - 10? per year with RPGCL assuming exchange risk.
ADP funds - 15 per year.
E.  Interest Received:
112 per year on cash balances in excess of two months cash operating
expenses.
F.  Exchange Losses:
Capitalized during project construction period of the project and
thereafter charged annually against net operating income.
G.  Income Tax:
502 of net income after interest and exchange losses.
4.  Balance Sheet
A.  Work in Progress:
Debited annually with actual capital construction executed during year
under the project together with interest during construction and exchange
losses. The accumulated total has been transferred to gross fixed assets
when assets are put into operation. In the case of plant constructed by
PIU under IDA-financed Second Gas Development Project, the value of plant
is taken directly to gross fixed assets when transferred from PIU to RPGCL
in FY94.
B.  Pilot Scheme:
CNG Pilot Scheme to be executed in FY91; under proposed Credit conditions
this scheme would be financed by GOB grant.
C.  Deferred Charges:
Technical assistance for RPGCL under the project, would be amortized over
five years.
D.  Current Assets:
Si) Cash and Bank Balances--Because of the high profitability of the
proposed Project, and absence of further developments after PY94,
cash and bank balances are likely to exceed normal cash
requirements. It has been assumed that excess cash would be placed
on deposit (see interest received 2(e)).
(ii) Accounts Receivable: Trade--Equivalent to 1.5 months gross revenue.
(iii) Accounts Receivable: Interest--Equivalent to 3 months interest
receivable.
(iv) Stocks and Stores--Equivalent to 1? of gross fixed assets as from
FY94.
(v) Others--Advances and miscellaneous current items.



- 53 -                             ANNEX 4.1
Page 8 of 8
E. Equity
(i) Capital--GOB contributions to RPGCL's development.
(ii) Retained Earnings--Accumulated earnings retained in RPGCL.
F. Long Term Debts Includess
(i) Onlent IDA Credit at 15 years including 5 years grace at lOZ per
year, with RPGCL taking exchange risk;
(ii) ADP loan for plant transferred from PIU at 13 years including 5
years at 15? per year.
G.  Current Liabilities:
(i) Accounts Payable--Equivalent to 2 months cash operating expenses
(ii)  Income Tax Payable--After tax due for fiscal year.
(iii) Others--Miscellaneous receipts in advance.
5. Funds From Flow Statements
A. New Long Term Borrowings:
Annual drawdowns from IDA Credit and ADP loans.
B. Equity Contribution:
GOB's annual contribution to RPGCL's capital development program.
C. Interest During Constructions
Interest has been capitalised during the construction period of the
project.
D. Exchange Losses:
Exchange losses have been capitalized during the construction period of the
project and thereafter charged to net income.
E. Deferred Charges:
Annual expenditure on technical assistance.
F. Provisional Income Tax:
Annual income tax has been assumed to be paid in the year following year of
assessment.
G. GOB Contributiont
Assumed paid in the related year.



MDL Comined                                                                              BANGLADESH                                                  OtIAM
Ohsqoqn. biNge  Kit                                                               LP GsLNUhId (PGI,
E                                                        i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rncm  Stahmute
dnm)
FY Ending lne St                                     1ow10 19 0                                    19 1     10 1g=          loe"     "a      ti        t W
18_egeRwS                                         682      04       67        S6       701    1480    1s"       ISA      151    1334   14ii.    16161
L    R_nldm                                       413       Su.0    31.3      360      310      3L0    100.0    1253               448    43         GM
uIe oie                                         3A6      54                         GA       93       11)      143      51.7     01.1      S      1
tP    8_1 tee Reusi3.7                                     224      22.0      22.      23.     46L1      m.      1131    454        07      6gm0     SA
op_ew-P 
SeImIs&Wag bor nge Smuat                           2a       &1   ae                    3.        43      67        Le      38.     1MA      1101   t 271
m -ui 0m ow_nd(SdOLpreoWJua)                       2.0      12        1.4      1.A      1.5      1.5     1t        1.7      LI       07      10.      "A
8_ni nW Ahinhsrdw  p neOs 0.6                               03       1.        1.0      1.1     1.1       11       1 a   4.1         48       L0       &I
Oa., 0gpe                                          0.0      01        1.1      1.5      1.5      1.5      13       1.7      as       3A       as       3 
DnesIml                                            0.4      0s       10.4 i   101      14.5     12.0     17.0     181      467    1722    245    83&
A_ASzdkn                                           0G0      O       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.       0.0      00        0.0     127      AD5  1 0
Td OpWd.I qu                                       13       1L1      175      175      31       21.0     183     31.      1          5a =0    a3     4116
Nd Openn    o                                          6J       LS       64       6        61      21"       5.       t3    38        430      472      48
IArdChwgb d                                            8*       9.7     101      14A      11.5      5.       LI       as      443    1i3"      1NA      16
kt%     RemId                                          55       7.7     14.0     14J      t11        6       67      1        41t      81t    10.1    1172
Bu     .Lowe                                           00       0.0      00       00       0.0      0.0      0.0      0o       o       2        Su a1 36.
Not hcome 3e Be Tax                                    2a       6o       0.1      6.5      6.0     24.3     67       373  n 3         4073    3T    411.7
PrmIelobrTx                         GOMA               13        S 2  6.          46       3.2     12.4    26        4"      148.1    2.       1NA      nu
Not bue ASKrTax                                        1J A S 2          &.0      1 A       4      12.4  2012    433         148.     nu       1N.      25
Patunm n As. NH  And Ase_
Ae TSx                                              109%    103%    -1.%        5AB      01%    260       342%    527%    21n%    17MB    1LV%    16.3t
co



BANGLADESH                                                   08:19 AM
LPUUa Lld (LPG4
Batefce Sheet
(In Tk million)
Proi.-
Audited                    uionai
FY Endn Jun 3D0:                                       1966     1967     1986     1S89      1990     1991     1902     1903      1994     19       1995     1997
Fted Asset
Fbxd AmtInOperalt                                  87.3      88.4     91.4     91.7    119.7    169.7    112.0    197.2   1614.0   2069*   2460.0   246A
tLow Acu. Dowepeison                                35.5     45.1     55.5     65.8      80.3     92.3    192      127.5    1742    34    680.0    796.
Net Fbxd Amst In Opertion                          51.8      43.8     35.9     25.9     39.4      77.4     73.3     69.7   1439.8   1723.4   18.1   1665.0
Wok In Program                                          0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     65.4    528.3      -0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Othr Amse                                               0.0      0.3      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      4.8      14.4      o.0    113.9    109.5      79.0
Cash and Bank*Bdanc                                 67.1     94.1    104.1     83.8      S3.5     42.0     87.4    155.3    481.9    M*    1220        1379.4
Accou-tTsPleh%bWa-TradeDebtom                       2.0       3.1      3.2      4.8      5.0      12.3     16.0     19.2     1#.1    112.4    119.1    120.
Accowmasc.labb - lnbetst                            2.7       3.5  t 2.7       12.5      10.0      0.7      1.7      3.3      10.4     20.4     a5       20.3
Stck. Stom and 8pwm                                 6.8       3.8      3.1      3.0      3.1       3.3      35        7      18.2       .9      27.      27.1
Adwne.sDep   &  ppa1fets                            4.3       0.2      1.6      4.2      4.0       4.0      4.2      4.3      9.5      10.7     11t8     13
Tetd Cwrmnt Ast.                                   72.0    104.7    124.7    108.3       75.6     a       112.7    1na      5837   110.2   14"         17MI
TOTAL ASSETS                                          124.7    148.3    160.      1342    115.0    140.3    257.      791      231    290        24183   3519.1
0.
tDpn
19-D4w-61 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~       ~



BANGLADESH                                                 08:19AM
I.P Gas Limited .1PGI.)
Balance Sheets
(In Tk million)
Prod-
Auditd                   aione
FY Eidn  Jmu  3:                                    1988     1987    1988    19 19      1990    1991      1992 I193        1994     199S     1o9    1t907
Equi
Pad-up CPIul                                     10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    22.5    34.1    1122    447.7    60.4    3436    3436
ResewandRetainedEarmIge                           2.8      4.4      6.7      6.6      7.9    18.3    42.6    36.6    114.7    138.7    151.5    157.4
Total Equity                                      12.8    14.4      5.7    18.6    17.9    40.8    76.8    196.8   562.4    709.1   995.1   1001.0
Long Term Deb                                        84.6    97.0    101.1    73.1      50.6    52.5   119.I    622L4   1133.6  1454.6  1716.    1574.6
Ottw LUabbUe
Depodit - Cyflndem                                9.8    24.9    27.1       27.4    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0   210.4   414.8   438.0   462.
Cufeft UabWrdes
Aceounbt Payable: Goods Suppled                   4.0      4.3      2.2      1.6      2.0      2.0     2.1      2.2    23.6    47.4   650          5S3
AccountsPayable:Expenhes                          1.6      2.1      2.0      1.7      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.2     13.3    19.1    18.7    lt          I
Inte   Payabe                                     4.9      0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Othr                                              0.4      0.5      0.7      0.5      0.6      0.5     0.5      0.6      1.7      1.7      1.       2.0    0%
Dhidend                                           3.0      2.5      8.5      4.0      4.0      2.0     2.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      O.
bInme Tax                                         3.6      2.6      8.3      9.3    10.0    12.4    263        43.9   148.1   203.9    192        2065
TOWalCurnt Uailes                                17.6    12.0    16.7    17.1    18.6    18.9    32.9    46.9    186.7   272.1    213.7   281.1
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILiTIES                        124.7    148.3    1606    134.2   115.0   140.3   257.3   79.1   209.    260.5   3413.3    219.1
P --                                                      -        ---b--:
Ratiwr.
Cunent Ralto                                      4.2      8.7      7.6      6.3      4.1     3.3      3.4      S.8      3.1      4.1      5.3     56.
Accts RPcble Equiv. inMonths ot Billing           0.4      0.6      0.6      0.9      0.9     1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0
LT Debt I Debt +Equity                          86.94    87.1%    86.6    81si.%    73.9%    56.S    60.9%    72.4%    6e.8%    64.5%    63.3%    61.11%
I,%
go
19-Apr-01



BANGLADESH                                                   08: SAM
LP Gan Uted (LPGL)
Funds Fa Statments
(n Tl milhlon)
Prco-
Audited                   dona1                                                                   TOTAL
1sarese                                              _186      1987      m8      198m    ilO       10ur     lu         u      tlos  lo"  iu     I        197 FP22-M
Nd Opertng nome                                    68.       8.3      5A       6.3      .3      282      621      81.6    30110    4826    47U       405.    1307.1
Add Non-cash ftnms
Deprdation                                        0.4       9.6     10.4     10.3     14.5     12.0     17.0     18.3     46.7    172.2    214.5    234.0   46.
Am_oanam                                          0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     12.7     305      305      432
bntenl Cash Geneation                             S6.3      17.0     15S      16.6     20.8     40.1    t0.1      09,8    34.7      67.5    7173      M4A   19O.0
bItr Roelwhd                                       h6       7.7      14.0    14.8      11.8      2.6     86.7    1&0       41.5     S16    1061      117.3    2430
Me Lon-Tem BorraWnge                               4.3     30.8       S.       0.0      0.0      7.0     72.5    405.2     0.4    300.1    232         0.0   1611.3
Exchage Los                                        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      3.      162      20.4     34.2    3M.5      7"
Eqy Conbuon                                             0.3  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     12.6     11.6    73.1    335       212.7    132        0.0     21.1
Adudmwd   d Fbxed A_ssts                           0.4      0.1       0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
PdwYe Adpju-ent                                    0.0      0.1      0.3    -0.4    -0.1         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.       0.0
RPductonofOshewesmutrs                             0.0      0.0       0.3      0.0      0.0               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.       0.0      0.0      0.0
Conmwson ofADPOebt                                 0.0      0.0       0.0      1.4      0.0      0.0      0.0    o0         0.0     o0       o0        O 
C p Oepoai                                         08       16.1      2.2      0.3      0.6      0.0      0.0      0.0    1824    2043       232      24.     410.0 
Totall oure                                       36.6      71.7     38.3     32.7     3.1      62.     160.9    l2   1530.7   14.6   129.7    gm    60.
-         -      -       -      -      -m-                                             -       -      -
,U
Capitl Exp_n                                      22.4       1.4     8.        0.3     23.0     60.      7611    447.4    U422    4553    310.1        0.0   221.7
htre DufIn C_ osjucion                             0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       a2      au       335       0.       0.0      0.0     WA
xhange    e                                        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      3A0       2      3.4      342      35.      733
Amortzin                                          0.6      18.4      1.5     20.      22.      5. AA.4           A4        A4       5..45A          13.       2.1
techaredw i Ico                                   8.8      9.7      10.3     14.6     11.5      50       62        .5     44      12       1s"      149    346.5
Totdl Debt8e S                                    9.4    28.1       11.8     412      34.0     11.0    11.6      11*      60.3    135      16A4    336       373
Othr Asu &O Deerd Chare                            0.0      0.3     O             0.0           0.0      43     6OA       152      5        202       0.0    16.7
Convweon ofADPDd                                   0.0      0.0      0.0       1A      0.0               0.0      0.0 OD 0.0          .       O       0.0      0.0
PrwdonorInom.Tex                                   1.8      9.1      61       4.6       .2      12.4    29.      43A      1431    20       1in.      203       1S2
Prork krwD deM dL                                           t 2.0  1.5 02 2.0          2.0      2.0      LO       00 0.0                              0.0      0LO
Prowalalca .Cia_t    On B                          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      00       0.0      0.0    12D.0    180.0    1O.O    200.0   430.0
Iner   Dere)lInWC                                  10      37.3      15.3   -18    -44.1    -1S2        S6      517.0    202    434.1    30*         1MA0   1OW7.1
Totdl Us                                          80.0     71.7     38.8     32.7    33.1      e2.3    10s0      690.2   1530.7   14t5   129.7  9033         S3.0 *
_ _ _ _ - - -                                -    -    - -                                                         {Di00
DoaSsd.iCags                                       1.7      O.        1.3     OA       0.0      3.7      6O        tA      7.1      40       4A        2.2     61I
19-Apr-6



- 58 -                                 ANNEX 4.2
Page 5 of 8
BANGLADESH
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (LPG) TRANSPORT AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LPGL : Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
1.         LPGL has an excessive debt level.  It has therefore been assumed
that, in line with the proposed conditions for the IDA Credit, LPGL will reduce
its debt/equity ratio on its Chittagong operations to an acceptable level of
65/35.
2.         The forecast financial requirements for LPGL's during FY92-96 (the
construction period of LPGL's component of the proposed Project) and the
sources from which they are expected to be met are as followst
Tk Million   Tk Mlillon    US2 Mllion   U
R AuI rgmants
Capital Expenditure                       2,184.8
Interest during Construction                67.9
Exchange Losses Capitalise                  10d6     2,262.8          67.4
Technical Assistance                                   162.7           3.9
Working Capital                                        99.8           25.4
8.414.8          86.7      100
Sources
Internal Cash Generatlon                 1,556.7
Loes: Debt Service/Exchange Lossee        888.7
Lese: Income Tax                          861.4
Less: Dlvidends/Contributtons to 008      290D0        521.4          18.8        15
CylInder DeposIto                                      410.0          10.4        12
Borrowings                                           1,670.5          42.4        49
Equity Contributions                                   812.4          20.6        24
SI   Converted at an average rate ot USS1 u Tk 89.4
3.   Income Statements
A.   Gross Sales Revenue:
LPGL's expected sales volumes during FY91-97 are estimated as follows (in
metric tons):
FY                       91       92       98       94       95       96       07
Chittagong              10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000
Elena and KTL              --      -              1        89200   89200   89200
Total                  _ _                        96 0.              _



- 59 -                              ANNEX 4.2
Page 6 of 8
Sales volumes at Chittagong are entirely dependent on the availability of
LPG from the ERL Refinery, and, in the absence of further information, it
has been assumed in the PY91-97 forecasts that the sales volumes at that
center would continue at current levels (10,000 m/t per year). Further-
more, it has been assumed that once the Elenga and Kailashtila Plants
become operational in FY94, ex-LPGL transfer prices would be established
at the same level at all three centers. At the same time, the transfer
prices for LPG ex-ERL and esz-RPGCL would also be fixed at the ex-RPGCL
price. The initial ex-LPGL LPG transfer price has been calculated at
US$564/mt. This price has been derived from the retail kerosene price of
14.0 Tk/liter as of October 1990, after adjustment for fuel equivalency,
retailer's costs, and margins. To bring prices in line with the current
retail price of the kerosene equivalent, prices have been increased by 202
in PY92 and FY93. All revenue forecasts have been maintained in real
terms.
B.   Raw Materials:
The ex-RPGCL LPG price of US$214.2/mw has been based on the October 1990
kerosene retail price after adjustment for fuel equivalency, LPGL's and
retailers' costs and margins.
C.   Excise Dutiess
Tk 12.38 per cylinder to FY91; 6Z of sale price from MY92.
D.   Operating Expenses:
Chittagong have been based on current levels with allowance for annual
inflation.
Elenga and KTL have been based on an engineering appraisal of the
operating requirements for the new plant.
Depreciation has been assumed at lOX per year.
Amortization of technical assistance deferred charges has been assumed at
20Z per year.
E.   Interest Charged:
Onlent IDA funds - 1lO per year with LPGL taking the exchange risk.
F.   Interest Received:
112 per year on cash balances in excess of two months cash operating
expenses.
G.   Exchange Losses:
Exchange losses have been capitalized during construction period of the
project and thereafter charged annually against net operatlng expenses.
H.   Income Tax:
50? of net income after interest and exchange losses.



- 60 -                              ANNEX 4.2
Page 7 of 8
4.   Balance Sheet
A.   Fixed Assets in O2Erations
Apart from an increase ln fixed assets of Tk 50 million in FY91 in
Chittagong, all additions to fixed assets relate to the proposed Project
which will be put into operation in PY94.
B.   Works in, Progress:
Annually accumulated works on the construction of the Project until
transferred into fixed assets in operation in FY94.
C.   Other Assets:
Costs of technicsl assistance to LPGL, to be amortized over five years as
from FY96.
D.   Current Assetst
Ci) Cash and Bank Balances--Because of the high profitability of the
proposed project and absence of further development after FY94, cash
and bank balances are likely to exceed normal cash requirements. It
has been assumed that excess cash would be placed on deposit (See
Interest Received - 6(f)).
(ii) Accounts Receivable:Trade Debtors--Equivalent to I month's gross
revenue.
(iii) Accounts Receivable: Interest--Equivalent to 3 months interest.
(iv) Stocks, Stores and Sales--Equivalent to 1? gross fixed assets.
H. Equitys
Mi) Capital--GOB contributions to LPGL's development.
(ii) Reserves and Retained Earnings--Accumulated earnings retained in
LPGL.
I. Long Term Debt:
Onlent IDA Credit at 15 years including 5 years grace at 10? per year with
LPGL taking exchange risks, and ADP Loan for 20 years at 151 per year.
J. Other Liabilities:
Deposits for cylinders from consumers - assumed equivalent to 36? of gross
revenues (as per Chittagong ratio).
K. Current Liabilities:
(i) Accounts Payabls Goods Supplied--Equivalent 6 weeks of raw materials.
(ii) Accounts Payable: Expenses--Equivalent to 2 months cash operating
expenses.
(iii) Interest Payable--Equivalent to 3 months interest.



-61 -                               ANNEX 4e2
Page 8 of 8
(iv) Others--Advances - Small liabilities.
(v) Income Tax--Tax due for fiscal year.
5. Funds Flow Statement
A. New Long-term Borrowings:
Annual drawdowne from IDA Credit and ADP loans.
B. Equity Contribution:
GOB's or donors' annual contribution to LPGL's Capital Development Program.
C. Cylinder Deposits:
Annual receipts from cylinder deposits. These have been treated as an
internal source.
D. Interest During Construction s
Interest has been capitalised during the construction period of the
project.
E. Exchange Losses:
Exchange losses have been capitalised during the construction period of the
project and thereafter charged to net income.
F. Other Assets and Deferred Charges:
Annual expenditure oa technical assistance.
G. Provision for Income Tax:
Annual income tax has been assumed to be paid in the year following year of
assessment.
H. Contribution to GOB:
Assumed to be paid in related fiscal year.
6. Ratios
Rates of Return--Net operating income after tax as a percentage of average
net fixed assets in operation
Debt/Equity Ratio--Long term debt as a percentage of total capitalization
Current Ratio--Current assets divided by current liabilities
Debt Service Coverage--Internal cash generation divid2d by debt service



- 62 -                                           ANNEX 4.8
Page l2of
BANGLADESH - LPG TRANSPORT AND DI1RBION PROJTEC
Flnanclai Intenal Rate d Rtum Calcuation
RPGCL, NOL Division
ADUSED
CAPITAL   OPEtATING                INCOME        NET                           NET
YJRAR       HD    I    as        IWVlitlUES                          DEFLATOR
1991                                                         0.0         0.92               0.0
1992        154.5                                          (154.5)       0.86            (132.E)
1993        483.9                                          (483.9)       0.81            (392.0)
1994        428.8        44.2       286.7        10.0      (196.3)       0.76             (149.2)
1995        117.9        55.4       607.8       46.2        388.3        0.72             279.6
1996         29.1        58.7       644.3       72.0        484.5        0.68             329.5
1997                     622        683.0       104.4       5164         0.68             351.2
1998                     62.2       6830        104.4       516.4       0.68              351.2
1999                     62.2       683.0       104.4       516.4       0.68              351.2
2000                     622        683.0       104.4       516.4        0.68             351.2
2001                     62.2       6830        104.4        6.4         0.68             351.2
2002                     62.2       683.0       104.4       516.4        0.68             351.2
2003                     62.2       683.0       104.4       516.4        0.68             351.2
2004                     622        6830        104.4       5164         0.68             351.2
2005                     62.2       6830        104.4       5164         0.68             351.2
2006                     62.2       68&0        104.4       516.4        0.68             351.2
2007                     622        683.0       104.4       5164         0.68             351.2
2008                     62.2       6830        104.4       516.4        0.68             351.2
2009                     62.2       6830        104.4       516.4        0.68             351.2
2010                     62.2       683.0       104.4        6.4         0.68             351.2
sm zizViTYANALYSIS                       IR
(a) C41tal EXpandiures (.10%)           32.1%
(b)OperatngCot(*10%)                    34.8%
(c)Revenues(-10%)                       31.3%
(d) Combination of (a), (b) & (c)       28.1%
23-Apr-91



- 63 -                                            ANNEX 4.3
Pae 2 of 2
BANLADESH - LPE TANSOT AND DISTRIBUTION PROECT
Finacal Intemal Rate of Ratum Calcuation
LPGL, Elonp + KTL-1 Operatic=
AMUSTED
CAPITAL   OPERATINO                INCOME        NET                           NET
YEAR  EXPENDiTURES  COSTS                      TAX                   DEFLATOR
1991                                                                     0.92               0.0
1992         68.1                                           (68.1)       0.86              (5.)
1993        442.4                                          (442.4)       0.81             (358.3)
1994        897.4        66.0       303.5        91.7      (751.6)       0.76             (571.2)
1995        512.7        99.2       643.4       142.4      (110.9)       0.72              (79.8)
1996        4163         95.1       682.0       127.5        431         0.68              29.3
1997                    101.5       723.0       136.5       485.0        0.68             329.8
1998                    101.5       723.0       136.5       485.0        0.68             329.8
1999                    101.5       723.0       136.5       485.0        0.68             329.8
2000                    101.5       7230        136.5       486.0        0.68             329.8
2001                    101.5       723.0       1S5         485.0        0.68             329.8
2002                    101.5       723.0       136.5       485.0        0.68             329.8
2003                    101.5       723.0       138.5       485.0        0.68             329.8
2004                    101.5       723.0       136.5       486.0        0.68             329.8
2005                    101.5       723.0       136.5       485.0        0.68             329.8
2006                    101.5       723.0       138.5       485.0        0.68             329.8
2007                    101.5       723.0       136.5       485.0        0.68             329.8
2008                    101.5       723.0       136.5       485.0        0.68             329.8
2009                    101.5       723.0       135         485.0        0.68             329.8
2010                    101.5       723.0       135         485.0        0.68             329.8
SENV          ANALYSIS                   IRR
(a) Capital Expendtures (+10%)          16.7%
(b) Opating Cot (+10%)                  18.3%
(C) Reenues (-10%)                      15.9%
(d) ComnbinatIon of (a), (b) & (c)      1&33%
23-Apr-91



- 64-                                                ANNEX4.4
BANG3LA2DzSH - LG TRASPOR-T AND Dig (RIBUTION PROE=
EWmated BeOB= NobtY&WOnIo,
in    im  m    im  9    IU   19    TOTAL
(bt Owrect TkmXiIk
Income Tax                      20.3      43.9    148.1    203.9    192.0    205.8          820.9
Contibutons to GOB                2.0        -     120.0    180.0    180.0    20.0          660
ExIse Outl"                      11.9     14.3     51.7      91.1     966      102.3        367.6
Int_                       .     6.2       .5      44.9    129.9    189.0    104.9          611.4
Pnpai                            6.4       5.4      6.4       6.4      6.4    178.6         205.6
Customs OuDt & Tm            .   2.6      f.7    234.7    200.4    181.8                    68.2
Subotal                         54.4     98.8    004.8    610.7    8160    651.6          3285.9
LOW.
Contrbuons to Project              m       BA.8    320.4    207.4    1832                   7863
IntreaonC Cdra                   0.3       1.9      6.o       9.6     11.9      13.0         42.9
Total. LPGL            47.3     28.4    278.4    193.5    620.5      M.0         2406.7
nome Tax                                           10.0      40.2     72.0    104.4         232.6
ContrIbutons; to GOB
Excise DutIe"
Interest                                           04.1    207A      203.8    187.8         692.3
rncipal                                                      93.4     93.4    207.1         893.9
CustomsDutlas&Taxes              7.       31.0     34.7                                      79.6
Subtota                          7.8     31.0    188.8    847.0    368.7    409.0         1892.3
LOW~
ContrIbutIons to Projet          22       04.0    604.        0.9      1.1       1.3        624.3
IntaeanCrol                      0.6        7       6.6       7.3      6.3       0.6         32.9
Totald, LPL           -18.2     -57   -8.3        83.6    859.       489.2        735.1
Combined LPLA RPMt
Inom Tax                         20.3     43.9    166.1    260.1    264.9    310.2         1062.6
Contributeon to G00               2.0      0.0    120.0    180.0    180.0    200.0          6320
Exdce utie                       11.9     14.3     51.7      91.1     90.5    102.3         37.8
Int                              6.2       6.6    130.0    337.3     32.3    362.4         1203.7
PrIcpad lIA4                               6.4      6.4       6.$     96.8    366.7         699.6
CustomsDutl.s&Taxes             IOA       60.7    269.4    200.4    161.6        0.0        721.7
subtota                         822     129.8    749.6   1157.7   118.3   1360.0          466
Low
Candufcto Projc                  893A    12A    a84          M93      16s43      1.3       1410.0
Inwe* on Credit                  0.8       4.6      11.0     17.1      202      21.6         76.8
TaW. LPGL + RPOCL             3.1    -37.3    40.9        M2       979.8   1327.6        3141.8
224-r-91



BANGLADESH: LPG TRANSPORT AND DISTRIUTION PROJECT
PETROLEUM PRODUCT SALES, BY DEPOT (1988189)
(cm Metc TOM)
DEPOT                    lOWiSO  JPL-I  oCANE  PETROL   KEROSENE    DESEL    LDO    P.O.   IEO   SBP   MTT   LUBE   OREASE   LPO    BITUM                    TOTAL
ASHUGANJ                           0      0          0       0         7347       77S6      0      0    532    0        0.    38          0      0           0      15703
BRAHABARI                 0        0      0          0    8416        91837    161659       0   3168       0    O       0   1084          4   2716           0     268884
BARISAL                            0      0          0     SIS         12707    37596       0      0       0    0       0    263          0     57         215      51353
BHAIRAB                            0       0         0       0        24397    26755        0      0       0    0       0      16         0      0           0      51168
BRABMANBAIRIA                      0      0          0    1274            0      2957       0      0       0    0       0      0          0      0           0       4231
CHANDPU1R                          0       0         3        0       40099    28268        0    108    324    0        0    176          0      0           0      68978
CHILMARI                           0       0         0        0            8       150      0      0       0    0       0      0          0      0           0        158
C1IffTAOONG                        0       9      2140   15079        70179    175093   8024  10862   5232  373   1434  20262           205   5690      20706      335288    in
CUrfAGONGA AfFPORT                 3   6119          0        0           0          0      0      0       0    0       0      0          0      0           0       6122
DAULATPUR                          0    922        276    5637        83161    155435    609 189813   8414    0        16   3479         68    510       9326      457666
DHAKA AIRPORT                      03065             0       0            0          0      0      0       0     0      0      0          0      0           0       3065
FATULLA                            0      0       30Q8   10359        30618     65906       0   2900  4048    0         0   2141         22    125       4599      123746
GODAINAL                           0     56       4701   20295        71564    136090      40   3626   8541      0    312   2931         48      0       9439      2S7643
iHALAKATI                          0       0         0     391         19689     19598      0      0       0     0      0      35         0      0           0      39713
KGF                                0      0          0     705            0         61      0      0       0     0      0      8          0      0           0        774
KURMFOU LAAIMPORT                 94  69155          0       0            0         32      0      0       0    0       0      4          0      0           0      69285
MMSC                               0      0       IOD9    1305          415         0       0      0       0    0       0     S          0      0          0        2780
RANOPUR                            0      0          0       8            0        198      0      0       0    0       0     60          1      0          0         267
SDR                                0      0          0       0            0      7429       0      0       0     0      0      0          0      0          0        7429
SRIMANGAL                          0      0         25     931         8420      11294    161    655       0     0      0    212          1      0          0       21699
SYLUET                             0      0          0    3663        14266      13671      0      0       0    0       0    298          2      0          0       31900
TOT ;X tt  36 IIwi iN 4w.   ..   .. .  .. 8tt ? 
T0TAL           -                 97  79326      11182.  07          47470     849978   884       32'j 27091 1 373 117621 310      ". .33 I08           42         873
* West zo  de
Peretage of Total Keroseo Supply Reaching Wet Zone                                     43.7%
Baghabari and Daulatpur's share of West Zone Supply                                    84.4%
Soes:          bamunA Oil Company Limited 1   Megbna Petroleum Limited I Padma Oi Company Limited



- 66 -                                          ANNEX 5.2
BANGLADESH: LPG TRANSPORT AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Peoleum  Produc     Demand Projections
(in Mdric TOM)
Acul Sale                                 Forcaa
1987       1988       1989       1990       1991       1992        1993         1994
JP-I                   78,926     79,794     85,000     91,000     97,000    103,000    110,000       117.000
Ocano                   9.751     11,107     13,500     15,000      17.000     19,000     21,500       25.000
Petol                  61,653     68,729     80,000     90,000    101,000    113,000    125,000       137,000
Kerosne               419,615    476.118    500,000    530,000    562,000    595,000    62S,000       660,000
Dicel                 708,353    847.444    920,000   1,000,000   1,080,000   1,160,000   1,240,000  1,320,000
LDO                    11,940      8,673     10,000     11,000    I,S00       12,000     12,500       13,000
JBO                    28,569     27.028     28,500     29,000     29,500      30,000     30,500       31,000
Furnace Oil           309,729    209,521    230,000    24S,000    260,000    27S,000    290,000       300,000
Lubrkiatng Oil         25,557     31,060     34,000     37,000     40,000     43,000      46.000       49,000
LPG                     9,163      9,214     10,000     11,000      12,000     14,000     16,000       18,000
Biumln                 27.215     44,179     34,000     35,000     36,000      37,000     38,000       39,000
SBP                      316         375        400        400        450        450        S00           500
SIT                     1.513      1,769      1,800      1,800       I,850      1,8S0      1,900        1,900
TOTAL         i     ,"                                >1   t. .       2....
Change          102,594    122,711    132,189    149,000    IS2,100    155,000    153,600       154,500
Change (%)          6.45%      7.25%      7.28%      7.6S%      7.26%       6.89%      6.39%        6.04%



- 67                               ANNEX 5.3
Page 1 of 3
BANGLADESH
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (LPG) TRANSPORT AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
I. Least-Cost Analysis
1.          The cost-effectiveness approach involves the comparison of economic
Costs for alternative supply options delivering equivalent benetit streams,
with a view of identifying the least-cost option. For the LPG Project, the
primary issue is to determine whether the cost of domestic LPG recovery is
lower than that of importing LPG or the substitute kerosene equivalent. To
ensure comparability, the cost-effectiveness analysis has been applied to bulk
LPG supply points that would provide continuous and reliable LPG availability,
namely, domestic LPG recovery at the northeastern gas fields, or deliveries to
the Chittagong refinery of imported LPG or the kerosene equivalent. The
downstream bulk transport and distribution costs were not included in the
analysis due to the clear advantages and lower costs of the selected pipeline
and small road/shallow draft transport option (para 5.05 of the Staff Appraisal
Report), compared to the safety risks, high costs and unreliability of the
dedicated LPG barges/tankers alternative.
2.          As explained in para 5.06 of the Staff Appraisal Report,
dehydration is a required process to deliver pipeline quality gas. Hence, this
analysis, as in the economic evaluation of the LPG Project, takes into account
the incremental costs of LPG recovery. The benefit stream would be an
incremental LPG production of about 44,000 metric tons per year (mtpy). The
incremental condensates resulting from domestic LPG recovery is relatively
small (4,000 mtpy) and was not included in the benefit stream. For domestic
LPG recovery, the incremental cost components are related tot (a) molecular
sieve-turboexpander gas dehydration equipment to recover LPG; (b) debutanizer
and depropanizer at the fractionation plant to separate LPG; and (c) storage.
The cost components for LPG or kerosene Imports include Arabian Gulf FOB
prices, freight, as well as storage, jetty, and handling facilities at the
Eastern Refinery Limited in Chittagong.  This least-cost analysLs was based on
the Bank's crude oil price projections)1 discussed in para 10 of this Annex.
Supply Alternatives
(a)   Domestic Recovery of LPG
3.          LPG would become available from natural gas production at the
northeastern gas fields.  As from the mid-1990s, the incremental LPG production
is estimated at 44,000 mtpy, comprised of about 39,000 mt of a 50/50
propane/butane mix and 5,000 mt of pure propane. Construction of incremental
storage for LPG from the northeastern gas fields is estimated at US$8 million,
compared to estimates for Chittagong LPG storage at US$10 million. Storage at
the production points is likely to cost less because of the continuous gas
production, whlch permits smaller storage requireuamts. In Chittagong,
however, subst&htial investment on s.orage is required to guarantee continuous
LPG supply, as well as to benefit from lower prices by ordering larger
1'   World Bank,  International Trade Division of the InternatLonal Economics
Department, Price Prospects for Major Primary Commodities (Report No.
814/90). Washington, D.C., December, 1990.



- 68 -                              ANNEX 5.3
Page 2 of 3
deliveries from the international market. The incremental costs of domLstic
LPG extraction includes surface facilities (US$8 million), storage (US$8
million), and fractionation (US$0.5 million), or a total of about US$ 16.5
million.
(b)   LPG Imports
4.          The growing demand for and limited availability of LPG have
increased ite prices considerably over the past five years. LPG is traded
under posted price schemes which have fluctuated in the Arabian Gulf from
US$135/mt before August 1990 to US$405/mt in late October 1990. Using a
conservative FOB price of US$135/mt, the CIF Chittagong price wouild be about
US$235/mt, including US$100lmt of freight and insurance costs. dowever, unlike
Japan ud Korea that have the ability to obtain favorable prices due to bulk
and long-term purchases in the LPG market, Bangladesh will likely need to pay
higher FOB prices and freight costs for LPG.
5.          Since Bangladesh has never imported LPG, appropriate facilities to
unload and handle the LPG parcels need to be constructed at Chittagong.
Tankers entering the Chittagong port would be limited to 5,000 mt of loading
capacity. Manifolds and berths need to be improved and other infrastructure
installed and/or upgraded. The estimated costs for renovation and construction
of suitable facilities are US$2 million. Adequate storage in bullets to
guarantee a level of continuous supply is also required. The material and
construction costs of an LPG bullet with a capacity to hold 500 mt of LPG is
estimated at US$1 million, which would involve a total cost of around US$10
million to accomodate each shipment of 5,000 mt.
(c)   Kerosene Imports
6.          Another supply alternative to domestic LPG recovery is to import
the kerosene equivalent. Global kerosene demand is increasing rapidly, while
supplies are constrained, leading to higher prices. FOB kerosene prices at the
Arabian Gulf have been volatile, ranging from US$15.i/mt in June to US$559/mt in
October and US$280/mt in January. The lower range of kerosene prices (or
around US$180/mt) have been used in this analysis.
7.          Storage of kerosene is relatively inexpensive, because it does not
require special facilities as for LPG. However, more kerosene (around 57,200
mt) is needed to have the same useful energy equivalent as LPG. Hence, storing
additional kerosene supplies at Chittagong requires some investment, since
existing storage is almost at full capacity. Considering the demand for
kerosene, storage to hold 15,000 mt would be reasonable to construct at the
port, at an estimated cost of US$6 million.
8.          Annual operating and maintenance costs were assumed to be 10  of
total costs for the domestic LPG recovery option (including gas shrinkage) and
22 for the LPG or kerosene import alternatives. Plant life of 15 years and a
discount rate of 122 have also been assumed.
9.          Based on the above assumptions, the levelized incremental capital
and operating costs per unit of domestic LPG recovery is about US$94/mt, which
is significantly lower than estimated comparative costs of US$204/mt for



-69 -                               ANNEX 5.3
Page 3 of 3
imports of the kerosene equivalent, or U5S2831mt for LPG imports, at today's
CIF prices for these products, and taking into account the levelized
incremental capital and operating costs of storage and handling at Chittagong.
II. Petroleum Pricing Assumptions
10.         Forecasting crude oil prices is an inexact exercise.  Any
disturbance in the global oil supply system will result in volatile petroleum
prices. Such perturbations, although likely to be short-term phenomena, are
highly unpredictable as shown by the vide price swings during the Gulf crisis.
The onset of the Gulf crisis in August 1990 reduced daily crude oil production
by 4 million barrels (bbl) per day, resulting in crude oil prices well over
US$30/bbl. Oil prices remained high despite increases in crude oil supplies
from inventories and other oil-producing countries. When the Gulf war broke
out in January 1991, however, oil prices dropped to US$20/bbl.
(a) Crude Oil Price Projections
11.         Around mid-1991, Bank forecasts indicate crude oil prices of about
US$20/bbl. This price would continue into 1992 due to the expected resumption
of some exports from Gulf facilities as well as the slowdown in the OECD
economic growth by the middle of 1991. In the medium and long run, prices
would increase to US$21/bbl by 1995 and US$31/bbl by 2000, representing a real
annual average growth rate of about 4?. This increase in prices will be due to
higher demand for oil from developing countries and only a moderate increase in
oil production. The assumptions used for the LPG Project's economic evaluation
are conservative, i.e., a base price of US$18/bbl and a 2? annual price
increase in real terms. Using the higher forecast would increase the LPG
Project's economic rate of return and widen the gap between the economic costs
of domestic LPG recovery vis-a-vis costlier imports of the energy equivalent.
(b)   Margins Between Kerosene and Crude Oil
12.         Analysis of kerosene prices over the past five years indicates that
the kerosene-to-crude margin has remained above US$50/mt. frequently reaching
as much as US$70/mt. The lower margin of US$50/mt has been added to the crude
oil price projections to derive a conservative estimate of kerosene prices.
This price is adjusted by a factor of 1.3 to arrive at the base LPG price, in
order to reflect the higher combustion efficiency of LPG and the mechanical
losses inherent in the retail marketing of kerosene (see para 5.07 of the Staff
Appraisal Report). Based on the lower estimated margin of US$50/mt and
US$18/bbl of crude oil, FOB prices of kerosene would be around US$180/mt.
Estimated CIF prices at Chittagong would be US$190/mt, including freight and
insurance costs of about US$lO/Lt.



BANGLADESH - LPG TRANSPORT AND DISTRIBUlION PROJECr
lmmental           Ric       e of Retur  Caculation Comparing Two Gas Dehydation Systems
Sam Mks ad Dryd,a _ system
MSM- Mbcuf&rSS v -ThtbuaqudbraStm
L PRODUCr YIMLDS (maic twayaw)
S>DS       d       g
Psan                              4,100         4.100
LPO                              39.200         39,200
Mate Spit       56.00            60,7Q          4,000
Keam            20,100           20.100             0
Diud            16.600           16,600             0
EL DICREENUTAL CAPTrAL COss  d PHASING OF EXPENDTURES (i 1990 US$ milm)
S-i Gd Dkdratios SyIn                                  MOcaSITu               Syc_
-__                                      c-                C_                                      c   c                    uss
saicuad Uni                               20.8        Tn _ocxumhr Un.                              28.4      7.6    FY92     5.5       9
Stpi at KalsuMa A A*mgnJ                   7.9        Stoag at KAial, AupJni & Elap                16.4      8.5    FY93    20.7      34
Aahgoj Fwt4mIa                             4.4        AAnpnj FrcWnta With Dqeop_a                   4.7     03    FY94    27.4        4S
AA.                                          -        LPG PWPipdineand D ilo Dudt8g                13.1    13.1   FY95        7.3     12
n.e.                                         -         leAp hLPGar  jFPan                           9.4      9.4                     -
AA_.                                         -        Cyi          Val  sod Rulae                  12.0    12.0                      100
n.e                                          -        Truck Traqnt                                  3.4      3.4
aL&                                          -        Ret Dqpb&  FMag Ualb                          1.1      1.1
n.eSS55.4
Physical CaMntec  (10%)                               5.5
60.9            6D.9           o .-
NOTE:  ComMa co_pma   with no cm chang     nat lded, Le., Asuanj oft prtion. nect-smAd codnS  pd n And
tran  ofacondmat. Coat eatma  nde forig and local componet.






Crud. PRODUCT ECON OMIC VALUES (in USSInI) INCREMENTAL PRODUCT QUANTTES Ci nl) INCREMENTAL PRODUCT BENEFIT
Pit                                                                                         STRAMS (in US$ mickm)                      TOTAL
(US$     Km.    Pro-   Moto  Dices    Ko           LPG      Pro-   Motor   Diesel   Km   LP          Po-   Mator  Diesel   Km   PROJECr
YEAR         )    (Ad.)    pane    Spirit                              pat    Spirit                            pae    Spirit                 BENECFS
1          131    296.9    296.9    201.4
2           134    300.3    300.3    204.0
3           137    303.8    303.8    206.7                  23,520    2,460    2,400                    7.1      0.7      0.5                        8.4
4           139    307.4    307A     209A                   31,360    3,280    3,200                    9.6      1.0      0.7                       113
S           142    311.0    311.0    212.2                  39,200    4,100    4,000                   12.2      1.3      0.8                       14.3
6           145    314.7    314.7    215.1                  39,200    4.100    4,000                   12.3      1.3      0.9                       14.5
7           148    318.5    318.5    218.0                  39.200    4,100    4,000                   12.5      1.3      0.9                       14.7
8           151    322.3    322.3    220.9                  39.200    4,100    4,000                   12.6      1.3      0.9                       14.8
9           154    326.2    326.2    224.0                  39.200    4,100    4,000                   12.8      1.3      0.9                       15.0
10         157    330.2    330.2    227.0                  39,200    4,100    4,000                    12.9      1A      0.9                        15.2
11         160    334.3    334.3    230.2                  39,200    4,100    4,000                    13.1      1.4     0.9                        15.4
12         163    338.5    338.5    233.4                  39,200    4.100    4,000                    13.3      1.4     0.9                        15.6
13         167    342.7    342.7    236.6                  39,200    4.100    4,000                    13A      IA       0.9                        1S.8
14         170    347.1    347.1    240.0                  39,200    4,100    4,000                    13.6     IA        1.0                       16.0
IS         173    351.5    351.5    243.4                  39,200    4,100    4,000                    13.8     1A       1.0                        16.21
PROJECT
PROJECr         PROJECT              NET
YEAR             COSTS        BENEFITS        BENEFIFS
I               5.S             0.0            -5.S
2              20.7             0.0           -20.7
3              28.0             8.4           -19.6
4               8.2             11.3             3.1
S               1.3             14.3            13.0
6               1.4            14.5             13.1
7               1.4             14.7            13.3
8               1.4             14.8            13A
9               I.S             1S.0            13.S
10               I.S            15.2            13.7                   NOTES;
11               1.6            IS.4            13.8
12               1.6            15.6            14.0                   Product value. are dctcrmined by
13               1.7            15.8            14.1                   addngtoth.ecrudevaluoth k
14               1.7            16.0            14.3                   product mtagrg  and savins from
15               1.8            16.2            14.4                   domcast producfts transpoct
Kerosn. value Is adjustd by a
factor of 1.3 to reflct
LPO oquivaemiy.



- 73 -                          ANNEX 6.1
BANGLADESH
LPG TRANSPORT AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1.    Terms of reference for the technical assistance and training components.
2.    DeLucia and Associates.  LPG Pricing, Market Structure and Related
Sector Issues in Bangladesh. Prepar?d for the Industry and Energy
Division, Asia Country Department I, World Bank. October 1988.
3.    DeLucia and Associates.  Preparatory Notes on the Economic Viability of
LPG in Bangladesh, LPG Demand and Markets, and LPG Pricing. Prepared
for the Industry and Energy Division, Asia Country Department I, World
Bank. July 1989.
4.    RTM Engineering Ltd.  Bangladesh - LPG Feasibility Study (Update).
Prepared for the Canadian International Development Agency. July 1989.
5.    Intercomp-Kanata Management Ltd.  Reservoir Studies for the i4ortheastern
Gas Fields. Prepared for the Canadian International Development Agency.
October 1989.
6.    Pencol Engineering Consultants.  Review of the Second Gas Development
Project Including Options for LPG Recovery. Prepared for the Bangladesh
Oil, Gas and Minerals Corporation, Sponsored by the Overseas Development
Administration (UK). December 1989.
7.    Penspen Economics.  Bangladesh - LPG Transportation Study.  Prepared for
the Industry and Energy Division, Asia Country Department I, World Bank.
June 1990.
8.    Background data on the gas compositions analyses, cost estimates,
petroleum product prices, location maps, site visits and other
technical, financial and economic analyses during project preparation
and pre-appraisal.



IBRD 22901
a) v   89'                           iOP9                             BANGLADESH
fb,    89                                         TRANSMISSION SYSTEM FOR NATURAL GAS
AND NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (NGL)
(.} /g)        >    KJh                 gn r G  h    PIPELINES  Proposed Project
LPG
26'         j  ausaor'                                                     Under Implementation:                                                 20t
Gas
*                                R\    i _                   -      -    NGL
rO to Aoi,A0,              4    ~         [      V                        Proposed:             t       Natural Gas Discoveries
Drnaipui    _                                                    Gas                         Primary Roads
/ \   |             NGL               -.        Railroads
C           - \  \   {   Existing:               Rivers
Gas            *     _      International Boundaries
*                               Sho~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rpur                      Sunamgonj            Svilhet
25 1                                                                                    0Nerokono                                                 V
Naogaon  ~      oqra                            /~r  ,ce
/   0                                      \   gyme~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ngig                           t     ¢4   nibaza,
Naog\ori             OgOffl;oihgofl \    Mu f    11eonFenchuget"   L                                          n
Silojgn                       Go*go  KisiorepOIai          Rashidpur  .
24                        Kushtia~~~~~~~~~P                                                                                             21
24 s  f  t  X  w  T I N D | .
%/~~~~~~U ta                    Aroi ha                                itas                 I\               
0
23               T                                                                        hosonutoi  F                                           23.
z     Co                                                                                                  * Semutang
\   I  )      w  ~~~~Khulna                                      Noak I
_   t  >   Berlsal }                         <\       Rangmeti
\   gOKe~~~Kptai 
TM ItO 8j*. sn an
kn  r     *dON             ?                                        Patuakhali                               Chi
d vw 0TM V.w toO
t 0. MwhO FX
C .8a,;-n The d   , 
so ~~~~ooo os so oo ~~~~~~~~~~o ~Kutubdia
~~~~,~~r  rV                                                                                                                          V
77-
^rwe^^> ~     ~~~~~~~ 25                                                                                                        \
I N D I A                    f_\
0           25          50AMILES                                           MYANMAR
21'                                                       ,
o              so             100 KILOMETERS
SRI LANKA
_  90"I,1M 929
MAY 1991



