Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2263 BD
(Liquefied Petroleum Gas Transport and Distribution Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS LIMITED
Dated June 21, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2263 BD
LPGC PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS LIMITED (LPGL).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to forty nine million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
49,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that LPGL agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and LPGL, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be relent to LPGL on the terms and conditions set forth in said LPGL 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS LPGL, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) LPGL declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental 
and operational safety practices and procedures, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for Part B of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and LPGL shall otherwise agree, LPGL shall carry out 
Part B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the 
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. LPGL shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. LPGL shall duly perform all its obligations under the LPGL 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LPGL shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the LPGL Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) LPGL shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the LPGL Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
LPGL shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by LPGL of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the LPGL Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of LPGL
Section 3.01. LPGL shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. LPGL shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
environmental and financial practices.
Section 3.03. LPGL shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) LPGL shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
Page  3
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including separate Project accounts and separate accounts for its Chittagong, Elenga 
and Kailashtila operations.
(b)
LPGL shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request, including, without limitation on the foregoing, unaudited 
accounts as soon as available but not later than three months 
after the end of each such year.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LPGL shall 
not incur any debt unless the net revenues of LPGL for the fiscal year immediately 
preceding the date of such incur- rence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior 
to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times 
the estimated maximum debt service requirements of LPGL for any succeeding fiscal year 
on all debt of LPGL, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of LPGL maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to take account of LPGL's prices in effect at the 
time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in 
effect during the twelve-month period to which such revenues 
relate and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
Page  4
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LPGL shall, 
commencing July 1, 1994, not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the 
ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 65 to 35.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of LPGL maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained earnings and reserves of LPGL not allocated to 
cover specific liabilities.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LPGL shall 
not declare any dividend with respect to its share capital or make any other 
distribution of profits, unless LPGL's financial requirements have been met.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section, the term "financial requirements" means  
requirements for operating expenses, debt service, working capital, and not less than 
35% of its capital expenditure.
Section 4.05. LPGL shall, by March 31 of each year, commencing March 31, 1992, 
review, in consultation with the Association, its capital expenditures program for the 
following year, and, thereafter, take all actions necessary to ensure the availability 
of the funds required for the carrying out of such program.
Section 4.06. LPGL shall carry out a capital restructuring plan, satisfactory to 
the Association, to reduce the debt/equity ratio of its Chittagong operations to not 
more than 65/35 by June 30, 1992.
Section 4.07. LPGL shall, by March 31 of each year, commencing March 31, 1992, 
carry out a review, in consultation with the Association, of its depreciation rates 
for fixed assets, and, thereafter, ensure that such rates are calculated taking into 
account internationally accepted depreciation rates for such industries.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
LPGL thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
Page  5
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify LPGL of this event. 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For LPGL:
Liquefied Petroleum Gas Limited
North Patenga, Guptakhal
Chittagong
Bangladesh
Cable address:
LPGAS
Guptakhal, Chittagong
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of LPGL may be 
taken or executed by the General Manager or such other person or persons as such 
General Manager shall designate in writing, and LPGL shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  6
By /s/ Shinji Asanuma
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS LIMITED
By /s/ A.H.S. Ataul Karim
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.
LPGL shall, not later than December 31, 1992, carry out a plan, satisfactory to 
the Association, for the strengthening of LPGL and the expansion of its staff.
2.
LPGL shall cause its staff to be trained in accordance with the training plan 
agreed with the Association.
3.
In carrying out Part B.6 (i) of the Project, LPGL shall:
 
(a)
not later than June 30, 1992, furnish a copy of the recommendation to the 
Association for comments;
(b)
by December 31, 1992, prepare an action plan, taking into account the 
comments of the Association on the recommendations; and
(c)
thereafter, promptly carry out such action plan.
 
4.
In carrying out Part B.6 (ii) of the Project, LPGL shall, not later than 
December 31, 1992, carry out a LPG market development plan and furnish the 
recommendations to the Association for comments, and, thereafter, promptly carry out 
such plan taking into account the comments of the Association on the recommendations.
5.
In carrying out Part B.6 (iii) of the Project, LPGL shall, not later than 
December 31, 1992, furnish a copy of the recommendation of the study to the 
Association for comments.
6.
In carrying out Part B.7 of the Project, LPGL shall:
 
(a)
carry out studies for the establishment of the program, and by June 30, 
1992, furnish to the Association for comments the recommendations of the studies; and
(b)
by December 31, 1992, prepare an action plan for the program, taking into 
account the comments of the Association on the recommendations of the studies, and, 
thereafter, promptly carry out the program.
