\DOCUMENi\i
CREDIT NUMBER 2263 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Liquefied Petroleum Gas Transport and Distribution Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGIADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      J7L             , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2263 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      I(AP, 1991, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   part of the Project will be carried out by Rupantarita
Prakritik Gas Company Limited (RPGCL) with the Borrower's assis-
tance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to RPGCL part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided
in this Agreement;
(C)   part of the Project will be carried out by Liquefied
Petroleum Gas Limited (LPGL) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assIstance, the Borrower will make available to LPGL
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(D)   the Borrower intends to obtain from      the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) a grant (the CIDA Grant) in
an amount equivalent to $1,900,000 to assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the CIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and CIDA; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the RPGCL
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
RPGCL, and in the LPGL Project Agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and LPGL;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The   "General  Conditions   Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "CNG" means compressed natural gas;
(b)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower, RPGCL and LPGL's
fiscal years commencing on July 1 and ending on June 30;
(c)   "LPG" means liquefied petroleum gas;
(d)   "LPGL" means Liquefied Petroleum Gas Limited, a company
established and operating under the Borrower's Companies Act of
1913;
(e)   "LPGL Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Liquefied Petroleum Gas Limited (LPGL), of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
LPGL Project Agreement;
(f)   "LPGL Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and LPGL pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes any schedules to the LPGL Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(g)   "NGL" means natural gas liquids;
(h)   "RPGCL" means Rupantarita Prakritik Gas Company Limited,
a company established and operating under the Borrower's Companies
Act of 1913;
(i) "RPGCL Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Rupantarita Prakritik Gas Company Limited
(RPGCL), of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the RPGCL Project Agreement;
(j)   "RPGCL Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and RPGCL pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from


﻿-3-
time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the RPGCL
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty nine
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
49,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the rea-
sonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account
in Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at


﻿-4-
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 2001 and ending March 15, 2031. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2011 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from


﻿-5-
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause
RPGCL and LPGL to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
RPGCL and LPGL Project Agreements, respectively, all the obligations
of RPGCL and LPGL therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
RPGCL and LPGL to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the
Credit to RPGCL under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between.the Borrower and RPGCL, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association which shall include the
following: (i) interest on the Subsidiary Loan shall be payable at
the rate of 10% per annum; (ii) the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid
over a period of fifteen years, including a grace period of five
years; and (iii) the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by RPGCL.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the
Credit to LPGL under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and LPGL, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association which shall include the


﻿-6-
folowing: (i) interest on the Subsidiary Loan shall be payable at
the rate of 10% per annum; (ii) the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid
over a period of fifteen years, including a grace period of five
years; and (iii) the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by LPGL.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the RPGCL
and LPGL Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the RPGCL and LPGL Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by RPGCL and LPGL pursuant to Section 2.03 of the RPGCL and LPGL
Project Agreements, respectively.
Section 3.04. Without any limitation or restriction upon
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)   review annually, but not later than March 31 in each
year, commencing March 31, 1992, the transfer and retail prices of
LPG, and, thereafter, make any adjustments to such prices, in a
manner satisfactory to the Association, to comply with the financial
viability objectives referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement,
and with the economic efficiency criteria agreed with the
Association; and
(b)   by June 30, 1994, cause the transfer price of LPG from
LPG producers to LPG bottlers to be uniform throughout Bangladesh.
Section 3.05. Without any limitation or restriction upon
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall finance, as the
Borrower's equity contribution to RPGCL, all future CNG feasibility
and pilot projects carried out by RPGCL on behalf of the Borrower.


﻿-7-
Section 3.06. Without any limitation or restriction upon
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)   price NGL products so as to enable RPGCL to earn
revenues from the sale of NGL products sufficient to cover its
operating expenses, debt service, additional working capital
requirements, and contribution to investments of not less than 35%;
and
(b)   price LPG so as to enable LPGL to earn revenues from
the sale of LPG sufficient to cover its operating expenses, debt
service, additional working capital requirements, and a contribution
to investments of not less than 35%.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)    ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance  with    appropriate  auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;


﻿-8-
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   RPGCL  shall have failed    to perform   any  of  its
obligations under the RPGCL Project Agreement;
(b)   LPGL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the LPGL Project Agreement;
(c)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that RPGCL or LPGL will be able to
perform their obligations under the RPGCL and LPGL Project
Agreements, respectively;
(d)   the Articles of Association of RPGCL as amended as of
October 23, 1990, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of RPGCL to perform any of its obligations under the RPGCL
Project Agreement;


﻿-9-
(e)    the Articles of Association of LPGL dated March 3,
1983, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of LPGL
to perform any of its obligations under the LPGL Project Agreement;
(f)   the Borrower or any other authority having juris-
diction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of RPGCL or of LPGL or for the suspension of their
operations; and
(g)   the CIDA Grant Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by December 31, 1991, or such later date as the
Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of
this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement; and
(h)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor.
(ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation or ter.-ination is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period


﻿- 10 -
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d), (e), (f) and (g)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)   the event specified in paragraph (h) (i) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(h) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Cradit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the GenerA Conditions:
(a)   the RPGCL Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and RPGCL;
(b)   the LPGL Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and LPGL;
(c)   the Project Proforma for carrying out the Project has
been approved by the Borrower;
(d)   the contracts required for the construction of the LPG
recovery facilities have been awarded in a manner satisfactory to
the Association; and
(e)   the consultants required under Parts A.4 and B.4 of the
Project have been employed.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the RPGCL and LPGL Project Agreements have been
duly authorized or ratified by RPGCL and LPGL, respectively, and
are legally binding upon RPGCL and LPGL, respectively, in accordance
with their terms; and


﻿- 11 -
(b)   that the RPGCL and LPGL Subsidiary Loan Agreements have
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and RPGCL and LPGL,
respectively, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and RPGCL
and LPGL, respectively, in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 5.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
this Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary or the Additional Secretary or
any Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the
Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                   Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                 642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka                      672796 SETU BJ


﻿- 12 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Ac t   Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil works, and                          100% of foreign
transport, erection                        expenditures and
and commissioning                          75% of local
of equipment for:                          expenditures
(a) Part A.1, A.2          230,000
and A.3 of
the Project
(b) Part B.1              530,000
and B.3 of
the Project
(2)   Equipment (includ-                        100% of foreign
ing installation),                        expenditures,
and materials                              100% of local
for:                                       expenditures
(ex-factory
(a) Part A.1, A.2       16,280,000        cost) and 75%
and A.3 of                            of local
the Project                          expenditures for
other items
(b) Part B.1,           22,200,000        procured locally
B.2 and B.3
of the Project


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3) Consultants'                                100%
services and
training for:
(a) Part A.4 and         3,410,000
A.5 of the
Project
(b) Part B.4, B.5,        2,970,000
B.6(ii) and
(iii), and B.7
of the Project
(4) Unallocated               4,180,000
TOTAL                   49,800,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 3,700,000
may be made in respect of Categories (2) and (3) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after Janu-
ary 1, 1991.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
carrying out an economic and least-cost household and commercial
energy supply strategy through the substitution of liquefied
petroleum gas for imported kerosene, fuelwood and other commercial
fuels.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     RPGCL
1.    Construction of storage facilities for LPG and condensates at
the Ashuganj NGL fractionation plant, and acquisition of related
equipment and spare parts.
2.    Carrying out of directional drilling works for about four
river crossings for the pipeline referred to in Part A.3 of the
Project.
3.    Construction of a LPG pipeline of about 165 kilometers from
Ashuganj to Elenga.
4.    Provision   of   infrastructure  design   and   construction
supervision services under Part A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project.
5.    Training of RPGCL staff in management and operation of NGL
facilities.
6.    Carrying out of the following studies:
(i)    an   environmental  and   operational   safety
assessment of petroleum operations covered by
the Bangladesh Oil, Gas, and Mineral Corporation,
including NGL processing;
(ii)   a  feasibility   study  for   incremental  NGL
processing, transportation and distribution; and


﻿- 16 -
(iii) a technical, economic and financial assessment
of compressed natural gas development options,
and   preparation  of   the   commercialization
strategy.
Part B:     LPGL
1.    Construction of a LPG bottling plant and storage facilities
for LPG at Elenga; construction of a LPG bottling plant and storage
facilities for LPG and condensates at Kailashtila; and acquisition
of related equipment and spare parts.
2.    Acquisition of about 350,000 LPG cylinders, valves and
regulators for the bottling plant at Elenga; and acquisition of
about 60,000 LPG cylinders, valves and regulators for the bottling
plant at Kailashtila.
3.    Rehabilitation of the LPG bottling plant at Chittagong, and
acquisition of related equipment and spare parts.
4.    Provision   of  infrastructure   design   and  construction
supervision services under Part B.1 and B.3 of the Project.
5.    Training of LPGL staff in the management and operation of LPG
facilities.
6.    Carrying out of the following studies:
(i)    an   environmental  and   operational   safety
assessment of petroleum operations covered by
the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation, including
refining;
(ii)    a detailed LPG market development plan; and
(iii)    a  technical assessment of cracking    surplus
naphtha to produce LPG.


﻿- 17 -
7.    Establishment of a program to (i) enhance the role of women
in the retail distribution of LPG cylinders and stoves, and (ii)
train LPG sales agents in the development and promotion of energy-
efficient cooking stoves.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Bidders for goods and works for Part A.3 of the Project shall
be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Bangladesh may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works for Part A.3 of the Project in
accordance with the procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the
Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Equipment and materials for Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, B.1, B.2 and
B.3 of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$3,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids obtained from at least three qualified suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs
2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56.thereof).


﻿- 19
2.    Equipment and materials for Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, B.1, B.2 and
B.3 of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Proprietary items under the Project may be procured through
direct contracting with the suppliers or manufacturers thereof under
procedures acceptable to the Association, such procedures to include
prior approval by the Association of the list of items to be so
procured.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for civil works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $500,000, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of * Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Assoctiation pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be


﻿- 20 -
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist RPGCL in carrying out Part A.4 and A.5 of
the Project, and LPGL in carrying out Part B.4, B.5, B.6 (ii) and
(iii), and B.7 of the Project, RPGCL and LPGL shall employ con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible vtpenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means   an  amount
equivalent to $ 3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 22 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amount
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
have been shown by said documents and other
evidence to have been paid out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph    3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the  total unwithdrawn amount of the     Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 23 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


