Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. :P- 5880-SL       Type: (PR)
Title:  PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT SUPPO'
Author: GEORGE ALIBARUHO                          RqoNo P-s8so SL
Ext. :34868 Room:J6-163 Dept. :A'4CO
MEKORANDUM AND RECONENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTElR&ATIONAL DEVEOPNT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 6.9 MILION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
IFO A
PUBLIC SECTOR ANAGEMr SUPPORT PROJECT
OCTOBE 27, 1992
Ths d_omet has a restricted distribtoD a_ may be wed by recipients only in the performance of
their off   duties. Its coents may not otherwise be disclosed witho  World Bnk authizatio



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September 14, 1992)
Currency Unit = Leone (Le)
US$1 =  Le S1S (as of 9/3092)*
Le 1    US$0.001952
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -   African Development Bank
AGD       -   Auditor General's Department
AGO       -   Accountant General's Office
BSL       -   Bank of Sierra Leone
CCD       -   Coordination and Cooperation Division of DOF
CFTC      -   Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation
CSRC      -   Civil Service Reform Committee
CTB       -   Central Tender Board
DESD      -   Department of Economic and Social Development of the United Nations
DOF       -   Deparment of Finance, Development and Economic Planning
EAD       -   Economic Affairs Division of DOF
BC        -   European Community
EPRU      -   Economic Policy Research Unit
FMC       -   Fiscal Monitoring Committee
ICB       -   Internaional Competitive Bidding
IDA       -   International Developmezt Association
IMP       -   Iternationl Monetary FRand
IPAM      -   Institute of Public Admiuistration and Management
OLA       -   Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
OED       -   Operations Evaluation Department
PCR       -   Project Completion Report
PE        -   Public Enterprise
PEA       -   Project Executing Agencies
PERDIC   -   Public Enteprise Reform and Divestiture Commission
PPF       -   Project Preparation Facility
PSMS      -   Public Sector Maagement Support Project
PU        -   Petroleum Unit
RAP       -   Rights Accumulation Program
RIC       -   Reconstruction Import Credit
SAPAU   -   Social Action and Poverty Alleviation Unit
SAPDU   -   Structural Adjustment Program Disbursement Unit
SAPSC    -   Structura Adjustment Program Steering Committee
SPPAC    -   Social Policy and Poverty Alleviaton Commte
TAG       -   Technical Advisory Group
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Prgramme
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
With effect from April 25, 1990, the exchange rate is dewmined freely between the
commercial banks and their customers for each transaction. For assessment of customs duty
and debt semrice payments, the exchange rate is dermined weeldy based on a weighted
average of all transactions by the commercial banks during that week.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SEERRA LEONE
PU8LIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Bofrower:          Republic of Sierra Leone
Beneficiaries:     Depament of Finance, Development and Economic Planning
Accountnt General's Office
Auditor General's Departmen
Bank of Sierra Leone
Structurrl Adjustment Ptogrm Steering Committee:
Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture Commission;
Civil Service Reform Committee;
Petroleum Unit
Social Action and Poverty Alleviation Unit.
Amount:            SDR 6.9 million (US$10 million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard with 40 years maturity.
Onlending Terms:   Not applicable.
Financing Plan:     IDA                  US$10.00 million
Government            us$ 1.15 miion
Total             US$11.15 million
Economic Rate
of Return         Not applicable.
Staff Appraisa
Report:           None.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed. without World Bank authorization.



MMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE IDEN1
OF THE ITATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCUATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBIC OF SIERRA LEONE
FOR A PUBLC SEOR MANAGEME  L?RT PMOECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
deveopment credit to the Republic of Sierra Leone for SDR 6.9 million (US$10.0 million
equivaleot) on stndard IDA terms with 40 years' marity to help finance a Public Sector
Management Support Project.
2.    Background. After a long period of economic decline caused by exten  shocks, poor
economic management and unsustained economic reforms, the Govemment has, in consultation
with the Fund and the Bank, made substntial progss in addressing the country's economic
problems by Implemetg a comprehensive reform program. However, implemetation capacity,
particularly expenditure control, budgeting, accountig and audit, remains weak. Ihe near
collapse of key public service institutions, the lack of capacity for divestiture of public
enterpris, and the general scarcity of managerial and technical personnel are serious limitaons.
Effective techical assismce is required to overcome these limitations. The proposed project
seeks to address this need.
3.    Project Objedves.  The primary objecdve of the project is to strengthen the
Government's capacity to implement its adjustment program and longer term growth strategy,
focusing on fisca management which, in the past, was largely responsible for program failures.
It addesses immediate needs for strengthening budgeting, expendire contol, accuntng,
auditing and repordng. In addition, the project aims to increase public service productivity by
supporting cvil service reforms; reduce the Government's role as owner and operator of public
eteprises by supportig divestre and public enterpuise reform; support aid coordination; and
assist in set  up the instutional stucture for the disburement of donor program funds. It
would aso address longer-erm issues trough preparatory work to identify areas where assistance
is needed to support the Government's program of reforms. Achievement of these objectives
would be reflected in the improved level of performance envisaged in the Government's strategy.
4.    Project Desription. The project comprises emergency-type measures that need to be
carried out speedily as a first step in addressing the most pressing constraints to the effective
implementatIon of the Government's program of reforms. It: (a) focuses on agencies responsible
for fiscal management :   the Department of Finance, Development ad Planning (DOF) to
strengthen budgeting, editure contol, aid coordination, procurement and policy analysis;
(-d) Accountant General's Office (AGO) and Auditor General's Department (AGD) to strengthen
accounting, auditing, and control; and (Hi) the establishment of capability in the Bank of Sierra
Leone (BSL) to supervise disbWement of donor program support fumds and strengthens BSL
accuting capacity; (b) provides instutional support to: (i) civil service reform to restore
efficiency and capacity for delivery of services; viC) public enterprise reform to reduce
govwernment ownersh of public enterprises and improve the efficiency of those remaining in the
public sector; (III) build a capacity for supevision and regulation of the petroleum industry; and
(lv) develop plans and work programs to address urgent social policy and poverty issues.
5.    Project Costs. Total project costs including duies and taxes amount to $11.15 million
with a foreign exchange component of $6.58 million (59 percent). The credit would finance
$10 million or 95 percent of total project costs (excluding duties and taxes), of which



-2 -
$1.04 miion would be for finacing of incremental recurrent costs including sales of local
contract personnd so as to facilitate speedy Iplementaion as Government's weak budgetary
position, after seve   years of mis ment, constrains its ability to provide adequate
cou     tfnds. A breakdown of cos and financing are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and
t  methods of procure_ent and of di, and the disbursement schedule are shown in
Schedule B. A tmetble of key project processing events and the Stats of Bank Group
Operations in Sierra Leone are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. A detaied discussion
of costs to be finced under the project is presented in the Tecbnical Annex. A chart of the
project etities is given in Schedule 5 to the Technical Annex.
6.   PlrJect Implementation and Administration. Responsibility for implemeion of
project subcomponents woldd rest with the implementing agencies; overall an   and
coordinadon would be provided by a Project Adviser to be funded under this project, assisted by
two middle-level officials, a Deputy Secretary and an Accountant, who are already in the service
at DOF. The Project Adviser would be responsible to the Financial SecreWy. Agreemen has
been reached with the Government on organizational terms of reference and staffing profiles for
the: (i) Structral Adjustment Progr  Disbursement Unit (SAPDU) at the Bank of Sierra
Leone; (ii) Technical Committee cf the Central Tender Board (CTB); (ill) Petroleum Unit (U);
(iv) Public Enterpse Reform and Divestture Commission (PERDIC); and (v) Social Policy and
Poverty Alleviation Committee (SPPAC) and the Technical Advisory Group (TAG). Terms of
reference have also been agreed for consultants and experts to assist with the folowing funcidons:
I) budgeting, accounting and auditing; (ii) disbursement and procurement under donor assisted
programs; and (nii) job itspections, salary review, and personnel information system
subcomponents of the civil service reform program. Activities financed under the project would
be based on annal work programs of implementing agencies to be reviewed and approved by
the Stmctural Adjustment Program Steering Committee (SAPSC) and IDA.
7.    Project Sustanbity.  Project sustinability critically depends on government
commitment, the caliber of the countepa  staff and the success of the traning progam.
Commitment has been amply demonstrated by the prior acionm takeW by the Government In the
course of implementing the far-reaching reforms under the Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC),
the preparatory acvities in civil service reform, and petroleun industry supevision supported
by the Project Prepaation Facility (PPF) for the proposed project The succes with which
Govrnet has implemented the ongoing technical assistance in budgeting and accunting,
flnanc4d under UNDP/IMF and European Community (EC) projects also attests to its
ammitment _ to the proposed project The progm  of training and skills transfer built into the
project will help develop a durable local public sector capacity in those agencies responsible for
mang       the economy and publc resources.
8.    Leso  from Past Expriene   Key lessons from past experience taken into account
In the project design and implementation strategy have been drawn from: an IDA-financed
US$2.5 million technical assistance project in Sierra Leone (Cr. No. 970-SL) that dosed in
December 1984, and Its Project Completion Report (PCR) issued in 1986; a 1990 Opetions
Evaluatons Department (OED) Report on FreeStadg Tecnid l Asssanejbr Instond
Devlopen In Sbaharan 4Arc  past and ongoing technical ceperton progm  of other
mulItie  and bilat  agencies, particularly the UN, EC and Overs   Development
AdminIstratio (ODA) of UK, covering various aspect of public sector maagement; and the
Bans 1991 publication, he Rejbnm of Publc Sector Management: Lessonsfi m &perl ,
Policy and Research Series No. 18. The lessons are that: weak political commitment, run-down
public financial management insttutions, failure to enforce systems and procedures, and poor



.3-
project managem   sklls weo largely responsible for unsatisfactory program and TA project
results.  Government commitment to the proje  is critcal to Its success and has been
demonstrated by its undert     of the tough adjus_tm   progm  whose implenton this
project seeks to support; its carrying out of key start-up project activities ficed under the PPF
and its successful implementation of the ongoing EC, UNDPJIMF technical assistne programs.
Tis project focuses on finmcial management and adopts a consulting services firm approach to
setting up tbe systems neesary in budgetig, counti, expenditue control and auiting and
training Sierra Leoneans to acquire the requisite financial management skills, thus simplifying
coordinton of related sub-components. This approach has been successfully used by the AGO.
The Credit provides financing for a Project Adviser to help the governm4nt manage the project,
thus addressing the weak management constraint. Donor coordination is important for the success
of the project and has been ensured through regular consultations with agencies that have ongoing
or planed progrms of technical cooperation, and strengtening of the Coordination and
Cooperation Division (CCD) in the DOF would ensure strong coordination between Govenment,
IDA and other agencies. Close Bank supervision would be enued by the progrming of
adequate staff time for this activity (Schedule 3 of the Technical Annes). Bi-annual reviews and
a mid-term review have been agreed with Government as part of the Implementaon mo ing
process.
9.    Rationale for IDA Involvement. After two years of intnsive discussions with the Fund
and the Bank and implementing a series of difficult reforms in the areas of exchange and trade
policies and fiscal management, the Government reached agreement with the Fund on a Rights
Accumulation Program (RAP) in April 1992. The Bank supported the progrm by the
Reconstruction Import Credit after Sierra Leone's payment ars with the Bank were cleared
in April. The performance  der both the RAP and the RIC has so far been ssatiacy and
despite the change in the Government in April, the program remains on track The proposed
project focuses on important areas and agencies essential to the effective implementation of the
Governmet's reform program. The Bank is also supportig the Governmen's medium-term
development objectives through projects in the social sectrs, agriculture, and economic
infrtructure, particularly in rehabilitation of the power and road transport sectors.
10.   Agreed Actions. Assurmces have been obtained that the Government would: maintain
its Structural Adjustment Program Steering Committee (SAPSC) and the Economic Affairs
Division (EAD) of the Deparuent of Finance, Development and Economic Planning in a form
and with functions, m        and staffing satisfcory to IDA; assign to EAD overall
responsibility for the administain, coordination and carrying out of the project; assign to
SAPSC for the responsibility for overseeing and monitoring the carrying out of the project, and
reviewing the annual work progrm  of each Project Executing Agency; assign countqet staff
to the tehical assistance experts to asist in tie carrying out of assipments under the project.
Agreement has been reached that: review of project implementation would be carried out
biannually; a mid-term review would be undertaken in Jamnay 1995 with a focus on overall
project implemtation, insttutional development strategy, trainig and skills transfer and
correctve measures if needed. It has also been agreed that the following would be submitted to
IDA for review and approval: the results of the studies and recommendations on civil service
refom, and an action plan to implement the recommendations; a civil service training program
and a strateg for carrying it out. There are no special conditions *f effectiveness. Conditions
of disbursement against specific categories are: satisfacory review of annual work plans,
including a t       plan; satisfactory pefomance under the previous year's work plan;
appointment of the Director of Economic Policy Research Unit; appointment of members and



-4 -
staff of the Social Policy and Poverty Alleviation C-ommittee and the Thical Advisory Group
under the SAPSC, and the Social Action and Poverty Alleiston Unit of DOF.
11.   Enviro al Ilmpact. Category C. The project will have uo adverse envirmmental
impac.
12.   Program Objecive Category. lhe project seeks, initally, to assist the Government to
implement the Government's structural adjustment progm  supported by IDA (Credit No.
2352-ML). It also supports institutal development activities aimed at strengthening agencies
responsible for managing the economy and public resources, and to prepare anti-poverty
strategies.
13.   Projet Benefits. The primary benefit expected from the pnjeat is the achievement of
more efective budgetng and expendiur control and greater accountability, which are the focal
points of the government reform program; higher standards of public administton; and a
leaner, mora efficient public enterprise sector. Furthermore, the extensive speciaized and on-the-
job tranng to be provided under the project, and the designation of local counMe   staff to
work with resident experts in targeted areas, will help ensure the development of technical skills
and rebuilding ;-t instiutional capability necessary to achieve the Goverment's development
objectives.
14.   Project Risks. The main risks facing the prject are: weak project maagement skills,
slow implementaon of the project due to tiy stafed departments in key areas and poorly paid
amd    vated officials; and inffecve slls ranser due to shortage of qualified countrpart
staff. To minmize the risks the project focuses on key areas of financial management, where
the govenment has already taken major steps to improve budgetig, accounig and auiting, and
firther the reform of the public enterpise sector, financed by EC/UNDP and Japanese grant
funds. These witl be complemend by a najor teical asita  effort in the area of finana
management. To ensure skills trsfer to local personmel, in addition to counterpart staff,
contracts with consulting firm  will emphasize hiring or subconting to local exet(s),
includig those nadonals living abroad. To ensure coordiaton, a Project Adviser has been
attahed to the DOF to oversee the actvies of various implementing agencies.
15.   Recm en . I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Asociaon and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 27, 1992



-S-                                     SkAiA
PULIC SETR MANAGEMEN  SUPPORT PROJECr
ESrIEATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
(US$ milion)
ESTIMATED COStS
A. Finacil No, g- t
1. Sucigiting & expenditure control                    1.57           0.58           2.15
2. Accousting                                          0.53           0.56           1.09
3. Auditing                                            0.49           0.29           0.78
4. Econmic policy & operatiom                          0.11           0.16           0.27
S. Procurmnt                                           0.14           0.03           0.17
6. Ald coordination                                    0.13           0.07           0.
7. Dank of Sierra Leo                                  0.34           0.03           0.37
3.31           1.72           5.03
D. Strueturat Refor
1. Cvil service reform
a. Civil Servcee Reform Coemittee                   0.04           0.04           0.08
b. Management services & nmnpo r control            0.23           0.13           0.36
c. Remeration poliiefs & scufnistratfon             0.38           0.10           0.48
d. Personnel policy &    _magammnt                  0.30           0.07           0.37
*. Trafning                                         0.03           0.11           0.14
2. Pubifc enterpoises--PERDIC                          0.03           0.37           0.40
3. Petrotea Unit                                       0.03           0.30           0.33
4. Socalt Policy & Poverty Action Program              0.23           0.24           0.47
1.27           1.36           2.63
C. Instftutimnst &wort & other studies                    1.54           0.62           2.16
D. Taes & dities                                          0.00           0.58           0.58
Totat base cost                                  6.12           4.28          10.40
contingencies                                    0.46           0.29           0.75
TOTAL PROJECT COST                               6.58           4.37          11.15
fI ANCImB PLAN
Goversumnt                    0.00           1.15           1.15
IDA                           6.58     j    3.42           10.00
Total                      6.58           4.57           11.15



-                - ~~~~~6 -SchLedule 1B
SERRA LEONF
PUlBUC SECTOR MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECr
PROCURMENT MENOD AND DISBURSEMEM
(lUS$ Million)
SUNNRY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMIENT ARRANMGENTS
Proreent method
Not IDA-    Tota
I. Goods
1.1  Equipent. materslsa  e supplies      1.12      0.77      0.87                  2.81
.                       (1.12)   (0.62)    (0.69)                 (2.43)
1.2 Eiduattnut equipment & supplies                           0.54                  0.54
(0.47)                (0.47)
1.3 Vehicles                                                  0.51                  0.51
(0.41)     .          (0.41)
2. Corsultents
2.1  St3 as                                                   0.26                  0.26
(0.26)                (0.26)
2.2  Technical assistance                                     3.37                  3.37
(3.37)                (3.37)
2.3 Procuraeznt agents                                        0.09                  0.09
-            -       (0.09)       -        (0.09)
3. Training                                                      1.63                   1.63
(1.63)                (1.63)
4. Mfscelleoram
4.1  Incrmenlta salaries--local                               0.34                  0.34
contract persornel                                      (0.34)                 (0.34)
4.2  tncremental recurrent costs                              0.77                  0.77
(0.70)                (0.70)
4.3  PPF refinaming                                           0.30                  0.30
(0.30)                (0.30)
4.4  Taxes & datfes                                                      0.58       0.58
-  (0.00)     (0.00)
1.12     0.77      8.68       0.5S       11.15
(1.12)   (0.62)    (8.26)    (0.00)      (10.00)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respectinv amounts financed by the IDA credit.
SWUIAR DISBURSENENT SCHEDULE
Consultant seriesllocal contract personnel A studies       4.06   100K
Equipment, suppies aN  veifeles                            3.31   100X of foreign; 80X of local
Training                                                   1.63   100K
Incremental recurrent costs                                0.70    90°
PPF r financing                                            0.30
Total                                                  10.00
ESTINATED IDA DISIURSENENTS
A-ualAt                    0.6         3.0        2.5           1.8         1.2          0.9
cuwlative                  0.6         3.6        6.1          7.9          9.1         10.0



-7-                             Scheu-C
SJERRA LEONE
PUBLIC SFCTOR MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a) Time taken to prepare:          11 months
(b) Prepared by:                    Govemment, with IDA assistance
(c) First IDA mission:              November 1991
(d) Appraisal mission departure:    June 1992
(e) Negotiations:                   October 1992
(t) Planned date of effectiveness:  Dezember 1992
(g) List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:  PCR  No. 6489 for Credit No. 970-SL  dated
November 7, 1986, Sierra Leone Technical Assistance
Staff Managt and r'w  Review. Mr. George Alibaruho, Task Manager; Mr. Magdi
Iskander, Division Chief; Mr. Edwin Lim, Country Departent Director; and Mr. Robert Lacey,
Lead Advisor. Mr. Oladipupo Adamolekun of AFTIM, Peer Reviewer; and Ms. Stella Uelmen,
Operations Assistant..



SIERRA LEONE
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT SUPPORT (PSMS) PROJECT
SIATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SIERRA LEONE
A.  St8t_t of Ban  Lons  id IDA Credits
(As of September 30, 1992; Amnts in USS Nillion)
Loan                                                               Comnitments (less cancellation)
credit                                                                                     Of Which
no.           Year                                              eank         IDA        udlsbursed
Fully di bursed t    A credits
Five toewn & ten credits                                       18.70         57.51
Not fully disbunsed credits
Cr. 1265.      82       Power Sector Engineering                -             5.00          1.41
Cr. 1353       83       Third Education                                      20.00         19.93
Cr. 1501       84       Agricultural Sector Support             -            21.50         20.15
Cr. 1695       86       Health snd Population                                 5.30          5.25
Cr. 2352       92       Reconstructfon Import Credit            *            43.40         18.11
Cr. 2356 *     92       Power Sector Rehabilitation             -            21.00         22.20
Total                                 18.70         173.71        87.05
Of which repaid                     15.40           0.03
Exchange adjustment                 (1.3)         (36.11)
Total now hetd by Bank & IDA           4.60         137.57
Amount sold                            0.54           0.00
Of which repaid                      0.54           0.00
Total undfsbursed                                                 87.05
* not yvt effective
S. Statement of IFC Inest ents
(As of September 30  192, Amounts In US$ Million)
Doat       Borrower                                Typo of business      Loan      Equfty       Total
1980       Sierra L:osn  Cement Conpany             Cement compeny        2.05       -           2.05
1992       Sierra Rutile Limited Lb                 Rutile mining        20.00       -          20.00
Total                                                         22.05       -         22.05
Less repayments & write-offs
Total comuitments now held by IFC                             a-L0S
.2 Fully disbursed.
& No disbursements to date.
IaW ntatimon of Bar* Projects
Between 1964 and 1987, there were 19 projects (5 Bank and 14 IDA) amounting to USS128
million. Four fartfally disbursed Credits (amounting to a total of about USS46 million) were suspended
in 1987 when Sierrs Leon went tnto non accrual status. After the Governoent cleared its arrears to
the Dank In April this yesr and the Reconstruction lnport Credit (Cr. No. 2352-SL) became effective,
suspension for all four projects mas lifted and disbursemant under the projects In the education,
health and power sectors has resumed. The Agricultural Sector Support Project, is being modified In
consultation wfth the government to address the changing priorities in the sector, in accordanc with
the lank's policies. Disbursements under a Power Sector Engineering Credit are being made to support
the emergency* rehabilftation program assisted by EC and German aid as a precursor to the IDA Power
Sector Rehabilitation Project approved at the end of April 1992 (Cr. No. 2356-SL). Disbursements and
implementation under Cr. 2352-SL have been satisfactory. There have been no significant problems in
starting procurement and disbursement under the ongoin projects since the resumption of disbursements.



-9 -                       Technic Annex
TECHNICAL ANNEX TO THE MEORANDUM AND RECOMMNATION
OF THE PESIDENT EOR A
PUBLIC  CT  MANAGET SUPPORT PROJECT
A.    ')aled Projed Desciption
1.    The primary objective of the proposed prject is to sungthen Government's capability
to implement its structura adjustment program which is supported in the initial stages by the IM
Rights ..ccmlaton Program and the IDA Reconstruction Imports Credit. The project focuses
on essential elemen. l of the govemment program aimed at improving ficial management,
Includig budgeting and expenditure control; economic policy analysis; civil service reform;
public enterprise reform; petroleum procurement, pricing and taxation; and social action and
poverty alleviation programs. The instittional framework of the agencies and units responsible
for carrying out the specific activities under each component formed the backdrop for tailoring
the type of assistance to be provided under the project.
Flnaual MWnagemet, Budgeting and Expenditure Control
2.    The absence of effective financial control has been one major caue of failure of past
programs. While control of expenditure commitment has recey improved, the mecanism and
Processes to ensure durable impact are weak. There are no up-to-date audited accouns of
Government or the Bank of Sisera Leone (BSL). The project woud provide support to the
Department of Finance, Development and Planning, the Accountant General's Office and the
Auditor General's Department, to improve budgeting and budget ad on, expenditure
monitoring and control, repordng, economic policy analysis, procurement procedures, and aid
coordination. Assistance would also be provided to the Bank of Sierra Leone to supervise the
disbutseme  of donor program funds, includmg IDA's Reconstrction Import Credit (RIC)
funds, and to strengthen its accounting deparmet
3.    Departme  of Flnance, Development and Econondc Plning (DOF). Unti recently
the Budget Division of the DOF was almors >vholly concerned with the compilation of the annual
budget stmates and processing them for presentation to Parliament, and for authorizing
supplementary provisions to the ministries and department. It was not engaed in budget-making
in the context of the Government's overall economic and fiscal policies. The Government now
recognizes the importance of making the Division the focal point for fiscal management,
especially in the context of the economic reform program, and the need to strengthen it.
Accordingly, under the Public Budgeting and Accounting Act of 1992, the Budget Division has
been reorganized into the Budget Bureau with a Director as head. The Bureau will be responsible
for the preparation and moioring of the budget in collboration with departments and other
govenment organzations and agencies. Its Director wil act as the principal adviser to the
Minister of Finane on all matters relating to the preparation and monitoring of the budget. The
Budget Bureau also serves as the secretariat for the Fisal Monitoring Committee (FMC) which
was constted as part of the Government's effort to improve the efficiency of public
expenditures and eliminate waste. The Committee's functions include: review of all public
sector activities in the context of the structura adjusent program; detmining quarterly and
monthly targets for revenue and expenditure for each fiscal year; and monitoring of expenditures
relative to targets and flow of revenues. However, this function has not been adequately
exercised In the past in respect of 'self-accounti" agencies such as the military and police,
dtereby mimizig the effectiveness of efforts to impose financial discipline and control. Under
the Public Budgeting and Accuning Act and RIC policy framework, the fiscal activities of al



- 10-                       Technic Annex
government agencies including the self-accounting agencies would be made subject to review by
the Fiscal Monitoring Committee.
4.    Under an ongoing IMF/UNDP Economic Management and Planning Project, fumding is
provided for a Budget Adviser to assist and advise the DOF in monitoring budgetary
developments, assess action needed to attain budgetary objectives, and assist in strengthening the
Budget Bureau. The adviser, who took up the appointment in 1991, has made a successfil start
toward meeting these objectives but to progress firther, budgeting, accounting and expenditure
management control need to be strengthened in key spending ministries, including Education,
Health, Agriculture, and Works. To provide the necessary support to these line ministries and
the Budget Bureau itself, as well as provide on-the-job training for national staff, the proposed
pro,ect would finance five budget and accounting experts: four to work initially with local
counterparts in the Departments of Education, Health, Agriculture, and Works, and one to
operate out of the Budget Bureau as a resource person for the other ministries. The proposed
credit would also finance the costs of equipment and training. The assistance from the proposed
project would enable integration of development and recurrent budget in 1993. Depending on
progress achieved in the individual departments, the experts assigned to them would be reassigned
to other spending ministries or agencies to provide assistance as needed in close liaison with the
Director of the Budget Bureau and the Accountant General's Office. A computer expert would
also be attached to the Budget Bureau with responsibility for the computerization of the
government budgeting operation. This would involve, initially, development of a simple
spreadsheet system on stand-alone personal computers with data interchange to be achieved by
diskette transfer. Standardization of equipment and software would ensure compatibility of data
and allow consolidation, review and analysis at the different levels of aggregation.
S.    Accountant General's Office (AGO).  This office is responsible for monitoring,
processing and controlling all financial transactions of the Government. In 1991 the European
Community (EC) funded a study to assess the needs of AGO and subsequently designea a
technical assistance project to implement the study's recommendations. The EC project, which
will continue for at least another year, has provided an expatriate Deputy Accountant General
(Operations), a short-term computer expert, a Deputy Accountant General (Accountancy) and an
Adviser who took up their assignments in July 1992. Support to the AGO has also been provided
by Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation (CFTC) with the appointment of a Training
Adviser. The proposed PSMS project would build on the ssistance provided by the EC and
CFTC: an internal audit expert, to be financed out of the credit, will work with a local
counterpart to build up the capability of the Internal Audit Division through introduction of
properly planned work, reporting and in-house training programs. The post will be for one year,
subject to review and renewal depending on performance. At the end of the second year, it is
expected that the counterpart will be able to effectively manage the Division. Initial emphasis
will be on probity and systems audit; more modern audit applications will be introduced when
reliability of day-to-day basic output is assured. The project would support staff development
and the strengthening of internal audit through financing of training, expert services, computers
and other equipment, supplies and teaching materials. The assistance to AGO would facilitate
preparation of the Amnual Report of Accounts, the first by the third quarter of 1993 for FY91192.
6.    Auditor General's Department (AGD). The Auditor General is responsible for ,,
external audit of all government departments, local authorities and parastatals. Although the role
of the Auditor C_neral is entrenched in the Constitution, it has not been effective in recent years
due to lack of staff, poor physical facilities and an inadequate operations budget. The
Government has recognized that the AGD needs to be strengthened to enable it to play an



-T11- 
eecve role in promoting accounability and preventing fraud. If it is to caqrr out its mandat
the AGD needs to review and update its working procedures, develop strong staff capability in
audit processes, and inoduce new audit techniques. The prposed project would provido
fimding for two experts for one year, subject to review and renwal depending on performance,
to assist with this process. First, an audit operations and training expert to carry out audits as
directed by the Auditor General, especially for works and supplies conta, build up an adequate
data base, and introduce new audit techniques in a computerized environment, and train AGD
staff on audit processes. As in the budgeting and expenditure monitoring functions,
computeiaon will consist initially of a simple data ba  for audit panning and spreadsheets.
New audit techniques, including computer auditing, will be introduced when technical capability
and system effectivess are aured. Second, an audit docunonltralning and operations
exper to review the existing audit documentation, prepare a new audit manual and standard audit
questionnaires for use by the Department, train staff and cary out audits as directed by the
Auditor-General. The project would also fince traing at Universt of Sierra Leone's Itit
of Public Administration and Management (IPAMo and limited overseas traiing, in-house
training requirements, computers, other equipment, books and supplies, and printing costs of
training materas.
7.    To simplify and speed up the effectiveness of the project, it is envisaged that the experts
for the budget, accounting and auditing components would be more efficiently recruited through
a consulting services firm rather than individually. The experts would be appointed for one year
to work with local counterpart staff to be identified and placed in post in the relevant
departments. Their assignment can be extended to two years depending on performance during
the first year, and the success of skills transfer to counterparts. Qualified counterparts have been
identified in the Budget Bureau and Auditor General's Department. Terms of refrence for the
experts have been agreed. In addition to the experts, the project would provide funding for the
necess  computers and other equipment, supplies, local aining at the government training
tiute and limited overseas training. The assistance would enable submission of audited
government accoun and the Auditor-General's Annual Report by the fourt quarter of 1993 for
1991/92.
8.    Training In accounting, audit and basic office technology is offered at IPAM on a full-
dme basis. IPAM, established in 1970 and assisted by IDA under the Second IDA Educadon
Project, is the Civil Service staff training college for middle and senior level personnel. It also
trains similar cadres of parastatal ad private sector organizatins. Course cOntent would be
determined by the CFrC Training Adver in conjuncton with the Deputy Accant General
(Operations) and IPAM. Training at IPAM would be supplemnted with in-house training, both
at Headquaters in Freetwn and in the field. The Instiute is affiliated to a number of overseas
organitions such as the Commonwealth Scretiat and the UK-based Cerfied Association of
Charted Accountans (ACCA) in its research and training programs. It has a good reputation
and is capable of delivering the training assigned under the project in a cost-efective manner.
The training plan for the Budgeting, Accountng and Audit components has been completed,
(Schedule 4) while finalization of similar plans for other agencies will be done after key related
activities, like restructuring and staff reduction in the civil service and identification of
counterparts, have progressed far enough to enable full assessment of needs.
Economic Policy and Operations
9.    The Economic Polcy and Research Unit (EPRU), headed by a Director, was cread
in 1988 to serve as a think-tank to carry out policy analysis and develop alternative policies and



- 12 -                      Technical Amex
scenarios for decisfon.akr. EPRU b not part of tlie establishe pement civil service
stmuc .  The Unit has been relatively  ctive and its anticipated input into budget
formulaton wt reized becs k is undstfed and unable to attact and retain high-caliber
staff. Relatively low pay and lack of logistical support necsy to fully utlize high-level
technical epetse have been the main problems. A UNDP/DESD project provides for the
position of Policy Adviser in DOF, but none has been put in post. Goverment and
UNDP/DESD wfll review the sa" of t  post and other rela  provisions. Meandme, to
strengtien the Uni's stffing, the African Deopment Bank (ADB) has agreed wih the
Government to provide funds for a highly qualified local expert to fil the position of Director
of EPRU. The Diector will act as counterpart to the Policy Adviser. His appoitment is a
condition of disbursement for the Unit. Governmet has agreed to request UNDPIDESD to
expedite the recruitment of the Policy Adviser. The project would provide funds for local
contract personnel other than for the position of Director of EPRU, computer equipment, and
software to improve the macroanalytical fundation of the budget. The status of EPRU in
relation to the permanen civil service struc  will be reviewed during the midterm review of
the project
10.   The Eonomic Affairs Division (EAD) of DOF, headed by a Deputy Financial Secretary
of Permanent Secretary rank, has responsibility for policy relations and options wit respect
to mutilateal financial institons, including the World Bank, IMF, ADB, IFAD; and fob
external debt Qoindy with BSL). EAD is also mandaed to carry out project implementation
review, joindy with the sector project specialist in the Development Division of DOF, line
ministra and project enties. The PSMS project coordination and admistion will be based
at EAD.
11.   EAD has to date not caffied out the above-vwntioned functions effectivey because of:
understang; inadequat skills mix; poor logistics; aniquated information storage and retrieval
systems; lack of basic office equipment and supplies; and poor coications facilities.
Without a sufficient number of qualified staff and other resources, including training in basic
modern computer usage, word processing, spreadsheet, data base management software and
specialized accountig software, EAD would remain unequipped to carry out its designated
fimctions at required standards. The project wil provide assistance to EAD in the form of
trainig and office equipment, including computers, computer software and office supplies, so
as to upgrade the division's operational standards.
12.   P       t.   The Financial Orders require aU government procurement above a
specified threshold to be handled by the Central Tender Board (CTB) composed of the Ficial
Secretary as Charman, the Accountant General as Secretay, a Treasury Accountant, and the
ProAessional Head of the Minstry of Wodrs or in the latts absence, the Chief Medical Officer.
The CTB is assisted by a Technical Committee whose membership was entirely ad hoc in the
past The Committee is responsible for preparing bid documents and evaluating bids. Lack of
autonomy and Inteafrence in CTB composition and operations resulted in a Board membership
that deviated from that prescribed In the Financial Orders, and to an undermining of the role of
the Board in ensuring value for money spent by the Government. As part of the reform process,
the Government in a February 1992 Cabinet decision, reinstated the Board's original composition
and committed itself to main ing the Board's itgri.
13. To enable the Cr8 to discharge its responsibilities effectively and assure a break with
past pracdces, fiurher administrative and technical changes are necessary. The Deputy Fiacial
Secretry-DFS (Pour t) will be a permanent member of the Technical Committe. Other



- 13 -                      Teccal Aq^
skills would be co-opted on an ad hoc basis depeing on the type of contra  under review.
Terms of reference and stafng proflle for the Committee have been agreed with the
Governme   In order to build up procurement expertise in the CID, the short-term procurent
conltant assocated with the Structr Adjustment Program Disbursement Unit (SAPDU) in the
BSL (para 15) will also be assigned to the CTB Techical Committe and the DPS, Procuremet,
will be his coutpart Tho consultant wil train the DFS in all aspects of prcement, and
develop procurement guidelines and procedures and assist in their implementation.  The
guidelines would be adapted for government-wide use to ensure standardization of procedures and
issued to the spending agencies by the DOF by June 1993. Semianual reports on CTB
operations would be prepared and submitted to the Financial Secretary, begng June 1993.
The project would fiance the cost of the consultant, in-ouse training, equipment and supplies.
14.   Aid Coordinaton. In recent years, the administration of donor aid through at least four
differe government agencies, DOF, National Authorizing Office, Natioal Aid Coordinaing
Secretaiat and Minity of Foreign Affairs, has led to serious dilution of aid effectiveness and
duplication of effort. Government has agreed, under the provisions of the RIC, to desgnate a
central aid coordina   unit in the Development and Planning wing of the DOP to handle all aid
coordination actities, including technical aistance.  The Cooperation and Coordination
Division (CCD) in DOF under the Developme  Secretary has been assigned these fnictions.
To realize the objecdves of this policy change, the National Aid Coordinating Secretiat and
National Authorizing Office will report to the DOF and not to State House; and donors need to
be so advised and a timetable drawn up for the change in reportig responsibilities and other
functions to be transferred to DOF as the CCD Is strnthened. The project would provide
financig for equipment and t     necessary to implement this decision. Anmud reports on
aid coi      , flows and use would be prepared by the CCD, the first by Decemet 1993.
Bank of Slur Lnem
15.   SAPD Unit.  Ihis Unit has been established in the BSL's Interational Finance
Department to act as the channel for the disbursement of flunds available under the RIC and
possibly under other donor-supported balance of payments grants/loans. An ODA-flnanced short-
term comultant has undertaken a study to define the fnctions, procedures, and st    required
for discharging this responsibility. Based on the findings, the arrangements and produres to
be followed for the procurement of imports and dibrsement of funds have been established and
set out in the Unit's terms of reference. Agreement has been reached on the organtion and
staffing of the Unit. It consists of a manager and an assistant, two banking officers and support
staff. These officials are already in post, and have completed their study tout of similar
operatios at the Bank of Ghana in Accra which has extesive exiene in successfully
managing similar operaton.  Two consultants from the Bank of Ghana, a finance and
disbursement speciaist and an accounting expet, will assist the Unit based on terms of reference
agreed with IDA. The consultants are setting up the tracking and monitoring system, installing
an accunting system, and will train the staff and asume operaional responsibilities for two
yeas in the case of the finance and disbursement expert, and for three months in the case of the
computerized accounts expert. Technical assistance will also be supplied by a short-term
procurement specialist who will oversee the procurement arrangements during the first three
months of operations while at the same time trainig technical staff of the Central Tender Board
(pars 13) in procurement and drawing up procureeot guidelines for government-wide use. The
specialist will thereafter make periodic visits to assess performance and help resolve operating
problems. Terms of reference for the procurement specialist have been agreed. The project
would finne the technical assistance, training and equipment needs of the SAPDU.



- 14 -                      Tedh*A Amu
16.   Operato. Bank of Sierra Leone operations, especially accountig and reportng, debt
management and bank supervision, have serious weakneses. There are no upto-date unqualified
accous, and reconciliation of accounts with the Accountant General's Deparment is
unsatisfactory. The UNDPIDESD has made provision in their project for an operations advisor
but more assistance wvil be required to achieve an acceptable level of efficiency. lTe proposed
project wil finance a computerized accounts expert for one year to be based in the accounts
departm  of the bank. The bank's chief accountant will be his countepart. Tem  of reference
for the expert have been drawn up by BSL and agreed with IDA.
Support to Strucural Refornm In the Adjustment Program
17.   The PSMS project will support instiutional mechanisms and processes for implementing
structural reforms in the adjustment program aimed at strengtheing public admiistration and
reducing the role of Government in ownership and operaion of commercial businesses, while
addressing social and poverty issues. To this end, support will be provided to: (a) civil service
reform; (b) reform of public enterprises; (c) petoleum procurement, pricing and taxation; and
(d) social policies and programs to alleviate poverty.
18.   Civil ServIe Reform. The main objectives of Sierra Leones civil service reform
program, the first comprehensive review of its civil service system since independence in 1961,
is to restore efficiency and capacity for delivery of services through: strengthening personnel
management, improving staff training and development, and reforming the pay and grading
sysem, while reducing the number of contract daiy employees and encouragig voluntary
deparure of pensionable staff in order to improve the scope for strutua increases in salaries.
A Civil Sevice Refrm Committee (CSRC), uhaired by the Secretary to the Chaiman and head
of the civil service, and including the Financial Secetary, the Establishment Secretary, and the
Secretary to the Public Service Commission as members, has been set up to oversee the timely
implementation of the program. The PSMS project would support continued reform by financing
consultancy services, administve support, taining, equipment and incremental recurent costs,
over the 1992-97 period. Discusions ae under way with UNDPIDESD and ODA/UK for
cofinncing of expanded coverage of certain subcomaponents of the program. However, the
program will proceed as presently designed until such time as the cofinancing materiaizes. The
main elemens of the proposed program, expected to be carried out largely by consultants, are
oulined below. As with the financial management component, the timed actions spelled out in
the RIC program make speedy implemention criticad. Therefore, where possible, consutants
needed to cary out the actvities essent  to restoring civil service efficiency would be recruited
through use of a consulting firm experienced in the field. Terms of reference for the consultan
have been agreed with Government
(a)     a      t  Services and Manpewer Control. A systematic review of staff
resources and needs has never been undertaken in Sierra Leone. The proposed
project would finance consultant services, trainig of local staff and equipment
and opating requirements needed to establish a permanent, local capacity to
undertake and implement results of functonal reviews and job inspections in the
different ministries and government departments; and carry out functional
reviews/job inspections in five ministries (Finance, Works, Agriculture,
Education and Health) as a condition for thi  tranche release of the RIC.
Preparation work on this component is already under way financed under the
Project Prepaation Facility (PPF). A related activity under preparation is the



- 15A- c                                ai
Educaton Sector Ceosus which, as has b    agreed with tie Govrunent, would
bs fuded under the IDA Education m projec.
(b)    Remuneratons Poliies and AdmInistradon. The project will support several
interrelated activites in this area. First, a comprehensive salary and allowances
system review to be completed by July 1993. Income policy guidelines emerging
from the review will provide a tmetable for the gradual eradication of existing
anomalies in the public sector remuneration system, taking into account
budgetary containts as well as results from a study of the personal income
taxion system to be undertaken concomitanly as part of the on-going
Govennt Rights Accumdation Program (tAP) with the IMP. The review
will provide a base for a strategy aimed at gradually reducing the role of, in
particular reimbursable, allowances, in otder to improve the tran eny and
efficiency of the basic salaries as an incentives system for public sedor
employees. Second, design and implemention of a simplified public sector
grading system wi fewer occupatoa classes. Te gradn  eform alms to
achieve better career possibilities and pay consistency both withn and between
the different branches of the public sector. The project would fiance
consultancy studies to underpin measures in these areas.
(c)    Peson  Polcy and Management. The General Orders, which contain the
rules and regulations pertaining to the civil service, need to be reviewed and
revised. A centra task will be to undeake, in coliaboration with UNDP/DESD,
a comprehensive revision of the General Orders in order to make them relevant
to today's needs for rules and regulations. The project would provide fiancial
resources to make the revised General Orders genealy available within the
service. Personnel information regarding public sector employees is generally
incomplete or missing. Centraized information exists in the Establishment
Secretary's office but records are of poor quality. Retrieval systems are purely
manual, and extremely cumberwme to handle. The lack of accessible and
accrate personnel iformation prevents efficient personnel policy and public
expenditure planning. Ihe project wiUl support sment of computerzaton
needs for establishing an efficient personnel infmation system  in the
Establishment Secretary's office, creation of the system and its integration with
the exisftig computrized payroll system for pensionable staff.
(d)    Training.  Importamt elements of the Civil Service Reform program are:
fornulation and implementation of a training strategy for the civil service,
includingin-house courses for key groups, the use of manpower development
officers to guide trainin needs assessment and trining plans in ministries and
other cena governm   agencies, and desigp of a program to promote career
development Assistce will be provided under the proposed project to finance
the cost of consultants to help define the training strategy and draw a plan of
action to implement it.
19.   The Government has agreed to: () furnish to IDA for its review and comments the
results of the studies and reviews of the Civil Service to be carried out under the Project; and Hi)
prepare an action plan satisfactory to IDA (including a time table) for the carrying out of the
recommendations of the studies and reviews; (iii) prepare a training program, satisactory to IDA,



-16-
for the training of staff and upgrading of staff skills; and (v) agree with MDA on the detais of
a sategy, to be used in tie caurying out of the traig program.
20.   Publc Enterpris. The public entepries sector in Siea Leone is not large compared
to many African countries, but is unwieldy nonetheless, with no particular rationale for its
structure or range of goods and services provided. Entepse operate with no specific objectives
or targets and, in many intc, without clear government oversight. Furthermore, interlocling
tasactions between enterpises and government have created a complex web of indebtedness.
To correct this situation, the Government created a Council on Public Enterprises Reform and
a Public Entepriss Reform and Divestiture Commission (PERDIC). These bodies, when
operational, will supevise the reduction in the size of the PE sector, and coordinate sector
policies. The council, the highest authority on PE reform, will be chaired by the Secretary of
State for Fiance, Development, and Economic Planning, and atended by the Secretay of State
for Trade, Industry and State Enpses and the Governor of the Bank of Sierra Leone. It will
approve privatization and reform strategies and related measures a eaborated and proposed by
PERDIC. PERDIC, the independent executive organ of PE reform, will be headed by a
managing director appointed by the Cabinet upon the om    of the Minister of Finance.
A st     profile and terms of reference for PERDIC and its mnaging diector have been
agreed. A local qualified professional has already been appointed. Ihe managin director of
PERDIC attends all Councfl meetings and acts as its secary. PERDIC will carry out policies
approved by the Council and is in charge of the implem on of all aspects of the pdvatzto
progan, including preparation of prospectus,  saction, screenbg of potent  purchasers,
negotiation if required, and colection of proceeds from sale.
21.   In order to carry out its task wih effciency and fairness, PERDIC wil require the
services of consulting firms to be financed out of an existing Japanese grant faclity. . Loca staff
of PERDIC wil be hired on contract basis. The annual budget of PERDIC will be prepared by
its managig director and approved by the Council. The PSMS project wi finance local contract
personnel, and equipment and supplies.
22.   Petroleum Pocurment and Prcing. Problems with petroleum procurement and
supplies in Sierra Leone have been endemic. In part, they reflect a shortage of foreign exchange,
leading to an absence of cost-effective, non-supplier financed deliveries. But they also resut
from the lack of appropriate expertise within Government. Thus there is a clear need to develop
a capacity for supervising petroleum industry activities in the country, including developing a
procurement and pricing mechanism acceptable to aUl parties. A Petroleum Unit (PU) has been
established to monitor and regulate the subsector in matters of pricing, quality, weights and
measures, safety, emnironmental and technical support. Ihe PU is an independent body reporting
to Structura Adjustm   Program Steering Committee (SAPSC). The terms of reference and
staffing for the PU have been agreed with Govemment. The project would finance the cost of
personnel, computer and office equipment and supplies, and incremetal recurrent costs. A
qualified local expert has been appointed to head the UniL
23.   Sodal and Poverty Action Program. After more than a decade of economic decline,
Sierra Leone has become one of the four poorest countries in the world with an estimated per
capita income of about US$210. Povert is widespread and glaring. Living conditions,
particularly in the slum areas of major cities, are harsh. As pressure on public finances mounted,
most of the basic social services were neglected, let alone social safety net programs. The
physical condition of schools and hospitals, bearing testimony to years of non-ma nce, and
the lack of basic teaching materials and medicine are indicators of the deterioration of the quality



- 17-                      Tedbsi A
of life. The Govem  has agreed that public expedtu  should have a povrty focus and
will increase budgety allocaions to social sectors in th future. lhe Government will also
estalish a Social Policy and Poverty Aevato Committee (SPPAC), an inter-minieril body.
to help, in consultation with the donor cmmunity, arrive at a consensus on priorities and to
fomlate policy and broad program .bjectives aimed at poverty reduction and the rehabilitation
of the social sectrs and to develop plans and work progrms to address urgent social policy and
poverty issues. Ihe SPPAC would be chaired by the Secretary of State for Finance,
Development and Economic Planning, and include the Secretaries of State for Health, Education,
and Agiculture, as well as a rpratve each from donor agencies and Non-Governmental
Organizadons (NGO). A Technical Advisory Group (TAG), would provide technical and
analytical support and backstopping to the SPPAC.  The proposed project would finance
technical assistance and logistical support for the SPPAC and the TAG, training of relevant
personnel in the Social Action and Poverty Alleviation Unit (SAPAU) and other relevant
govemment departments, and studies directed towards applied, policy-oriented research and
analysis. Terms of reference for the SPPAC and the TAG and its staff profile have been agreed
with Govermment. Appointment of members and staff of SPPAC, TAG and SAPAU with
qualifications satsfctory to IDA is a condition of disbursement for the SAPAU.
Instional Suport and Other Studies
24.   In addition to specific actions required under the RIC, the PSMS project would include
provision for preparatory work, including studies, aimed at meetng longer-term objectives of the
Government's adjustment program. Proposals for such activities, including a plan for discussion
of the repors and implementtion of the reports' recommendations, would be reviewed by the
SAPSC prior to submission to IDA for appl and finding out of the project.
Pirojet Costs and   a
25.   Detailed project activities are shown in Schedule A. Total project costs, including duties
and taxes and contingencies, are estimated at US$11.15 million equivalent, with a foreign
exchange compnent of US$6.58 milion or 59 percent of total. Cost estimates are based on July
1992 prices. The credit would finance 95 percent of total project costs excluding duties and
taxes, covering all foreign costs and US$3.42 million of local costs of which $1.04 million would
be for incremental recurrent costs including salaries of local contract personnel. The
Government's contribution is $1.15 million including $0.58 million in taxes and duties. IDA's
share of total project cost represents a specW situation where the Government has very limited
resources following years of economic mismanagement and has just come out of non-accrual
status. The proportion of local costs financed out of the credit reflects the use of local expertise
for long-term assignments and the need to provide support staff and facilities for the agencies
created specifically to fulfill requirements of the RIC-supported program. A PPF in the amount
of US$300,000 was requested by Government and approved by IDA to finance project
preparaion and start-p activities to ensure timely disbursement of RIC funds, and fulfillment of
RIC tranche release conditions. Costing and financing details are presened in Schedules A and
B.
B.    Project Administraton and hnplementation
26.   Responsibility for implementation of project components would rest with the
implementing agencies, but overall adminisaion and coordination would be provided by a
Project Adviser, to be attached to EAD of DOF. The interrelationship of the Project Executing



- 18-
either direcdy (for those newly established under RIC) or tfhrouh the normal civil service
reportng structure. For administrative matters of the Project, all PEA report to the Project
Adviser. Ihe Adviser would be a senior manager with a strong operadonal background, assisted
by two middle-level officials, an accountant and a Deputy Secretary at DOF. Assurance has been
obtained that Government will maintain the staffing of EAD responsible for project
implementaion in a manner satisfactory to IDA. Detailed functions of the Project Adviser were
agreed with Government and the official has been appointed. The SAPSC will provide general
oversight and monitor execution of the project. The committee, chaired by the Secreay of State
for Finance, Development and Economic Planning will also review the annual work programs
prepared by the implementing agencies, prior to their submission to IDA for approval, to ensure
a continued focus on actions crucial to the implementation of the adjustment progrm. The
annual work programs would be submitted to SAPSC by April 15, and to IDA by May 15 of
each year.
27.   The use of annual work programs would be the mecaism for project administration.
Each work program would include a statement of objectives, a description of planned activities
to achieve those objectives and, after the first year of implementation, an evaluation of the
previous year's performance. Support for any activity would be contingent upon approval by
IDA of the agency or unit's work program. Draft work progms for the first year with the
exception of EPRU have been agreed and are part of the documentation in the project file.
EPRU would submit its work program for IDA review after a Director has been appointed.
Progress on implemention of the major components would be assessed bi-annuly during the
project's life. A detailed mid-term assessment of overall project performance will be caried out
in Jamuary 1995 to identify issues that cut across the entire project, and agree on corrective
measures to be implemented in the remaining life of the project The review would focus on
Implementation amrangements, instituional development stategy, training and skills transfer.
Agreement has been reached with the Govemment on the terms of reference and staffing profiles
for: (i) the SAPDU at the Bank of Sierra Leone; (ii) Technical Commitee of the Cental Tender
Board; (iii) Petroleum Unit; (iv) Public Entepris Refom and Divestiture Cor&ssion
(PERDIC); and (v) Social Policy and Poverty Alleviaton Committee (SPPAC); (vi) Technic
Advisory Group CrAG); and (vii) Social Action and Poverty Alleviation Committee (SPPAC);
Terms of reference have also been agreed for consultats and experts to assist with the following
functions: Q) budgeting, accountng ad auditing; (ii) disbursem    and procurement under donor
assigned progrms; and (iii) job inspections, salary review, peronnel information system
subcomponents of the civil service reform program.  he Govemment wil assign counterpart
staff with quaifications satisfactory to IDA to assist in the carrying out of assignments under the
Project.
28.   ImplanentationSchedule. The proposed project would be implemented over a five-year
period. The timig of some key project activities shown in Schedule 2 is linked to completion
of actions required under the RIC program.
29.   Procuement.  Procurement of goods and services would be in acowrdance with
procedures acceptable to IDA. Procurement on behalf of the agencies in accordance with Bank
guidelines and the Credit Agreement would be the responsibility of the Project Adviser.
Implementing agency requirements for goods would be aggregated by the Project Adviser in such
a way that International Competnive Bidding (ICB) is feasible and semiannual procurement plans
prepared. The Project Adviser would be respoirible for procurement, making use, where
necessary, of the services of an international procement agent satisfactory to IDA. Contracts
for goods expected to exceed US$200,000 would be procured through international competitive



- 19 -                     Techical Amu
biddig. hem  suitable for pacaging and pcued by ICB would cosist of mlemetI
agcy needs for computers, peripherals, and other office equipment (USS900,000 aggre ),
and bulk office supplies (US$220,000), anidcipated during the first two to three years of the
project, when requireme  would be most concentaed. Subsequenty, while the ranje of goods
would rmain wide, th reduced quantities would be unlikely to attract interatonal compedtion
and would be procured throught local competitive bidin or shopping. Conts for goods
valued between US$100,000 and US$200,000 would be subject to local competitve bidding
(US$770,000 aggregate), and those from US$10,000 to US$100,000, to shopping. Vehicles
(US$510,000 aggregate) and small volume requirement for office equipment and supplies
(US$1.0 million aggregate) will be proured using international shopping procedures since the
procurement will be spread out over the project period and the amounts involved fairly small.
Local shopping would be used for purchases valued under US$10,000 (US$410,000 agegate)
based on a minimum of three quotes. Contracts in excess of US$50,000 would be subject to IDA
prior review. The share of the IDA credit subject to prior review is estimatd at about 80
percent.
30.   Consultants and resident experts would be employed for tehical assistance, t   and
studies. Their selection, qualificadons, exeience, and terms and conditions of employment
would be subject to normal IMA review procedures as set out in the World Bank's Guidelines for
the Use of Consultns. It is esmated that a total of 382 man-months of consultant studies and
expert services, both orign and local, at a cost of US$3.72 million would be ruired during
the life of the project. Log-term experts or constants would be hired on a 1 to 2 year basis,
with provision for extension if needed. Performance will be one of the key elements to consider
in any etension. In areas where expertise is available locally, and in order to facilitate transfer
of skilh and technology to local experts, effors will be made to utilize local consultants. Foreign
consulting services firm  wil also be encouraged in their terms of contract to engage local
consuitants as well as experienced nationals who rside abroad for work in Siert3 Leone under
the project. Similarly, to the extent possible, studies would be undertke by local researhr,
consulting firms and/or university institutes. Consideratin will also be given to the use of
qualified consultants and experts from other developing counries. Tainng would be procured
on the basis of prior consultation and in accordane with procedures agreed with IDA.
31.   Disbursement. Ib proposed crdisi spected to be disbursed over a period of flve
years. Dibusemefts would be made  ist 100 percent of the cost of consultant and expert
services, conacu  persomel, training, foreign expeditures for equipment, supplies and
Materials. DWmnements would be at 80 percet for local expenditures for equipment, supplies
and materials, and 90 prcent for incremental reurrent costs. It is recommended that the
disburement percentage for bicemeal recurrent cost be maintained at 90 percent through the
life of the project as Government's budgetary position is weak, after several years of
mismanagement. Incremental recurrent costs would be payments for mantenan  and fuel for
vehicles, maintenance of computers and other office equipment procured under the project, field
allowances and icrementl salaries for support staff hired under contract by new agencies created
under the project and rent, funiture and renovation of offices. To facilitate disb  a
special account with an authorized allocadon of US$500,000 covering four months of eligible
expenditures would be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA and operated according
to IDA procedur. To the exent possible, all eligible payments would be made from this
accou. The account would be replenished by IDA on the basis of aggregated withdrawal
request to be submitted monthly or sooner if requests would exceed one third of the authorized
allocaion. All withdrawal, applicatos wi be fuly documented, eept for contracts below
US$10,000 equivalent for which disb nt will be on the basis of Statements of Expenditures



-20-
(SOEs). In such cases the relevan docaon will be reined by the Project Advier for
review by IDA supervision missions and the extem  auditors.
32.   Accoub and Audit. nhe Project Adviser will direct the DOF accountat handling the
projecs accn  to stablish and maintain separate accounts for al expenditures funded under
the credi. Such accouns would be mainained in accordance with sound and in nally
recognized aung principles and practices sadsfactory to IDA. Accounts would be audited
nnualy by independent auditors satsfatory to IIDA and the report on findings, including a long
form report, prepared as descrbed in the Bank Guidelines on Financial Repordtg and Audlting.
The auditoes report will include a statement on the adequacy of the accountng system  and
intemal controls. Aw-i* repor would include a sepaate opinion with regard to claims submitted
to MDA on the basis of Statments of Expenditures and of the Specia Account. Audited account
would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of the fiscal year. Ihe Project Adviser
would submit-semiu progress tepotts on project implemention and expenditures to the SAP
Steering Committee and DDA. He/she would also prepae a project completion report within six
monDts ater the closing date of the credit.



18LIC SECTID _UT  81PRT 10PROJE
m   PROJECT ACIVITIES
*  ~~~                                             ~ :x~~~v~~*~~ ~ ~~ ~~'                         "- il
A. Ftminciat1 aUniagent
*  To iqprove capacity for  1.               :  Strengthening capacity for cOOr-  * Nore effective process of resolving *  1993-97.                 * PSS Project
budgeting & budget           dnt ng        tins, monitoring & expenditure           co peting claim  to budgetory                                   Unlt/DO!
lptluantatien.             control via the Fiscal Nonitoring Committee by          resources.
strengthening sta ffng through:                     * Tighter bodget lptlementation.
*  financing experts;                              *  Transfer of technical expertise to
*  training locat staff-                               nationals.
*  upgrading office technology;                     *  First Integrated recurrent & capi-
tal budget.
*  To Iapeove departmentat  2. Line Ziraf.n   to  Strengthening staffing through: * Effective system  for bLdget me-   *  :993-97.                  * DOF
budget preparation,          * provisi on of experts & trainers;                    age ent.
expenditure plaming.         *  training local staff;                            *  Speedier release of funds by AGO to
accounting & control.        * providing logistical support;                        line ministrfes.
* providing coaputers, accessories & suppties. * Transfer of technical expertise to
nationats.
*  To improve internal con  3. Accguntant tieneral;s Office (AGO):                  * Week(y reconcitiation of AGO/IlL    *  1993-97.               * AGO                    5
trols I staff productiv-    *  Improve accounting proceures & strengthen            Govt. accounts.
Ity.                           staffing by providing expert services, in-       *  mprovement in Interral controls,
house training & logistical suport;                 Increased efficiency of expendi-    *  19R3.                *  AGO
*  Provide computer I supplies.                        tures.
* MNster plan for recruiting. train-
ing, career development & retaining
cadres of professional staff.        *  1993/97.            * AGO
* Nigher levels of staff competence.
* Anmual internal audit report.
*  To restore external      4. Audito  G6eneral a Deot. (MDl:                       * Audited Govt. accounts.               *  t493-97.             * AG
audit & oversight            * Review & update working procares;                 * Auditor General's Report to
functions.                   *  Strengthen staff capability throug  expert          Parifament.
serviecs £ on-the-job tr ining;                 *  Increased transparency In pebilc
*  Introdace new audit techniques;                    sector financial operations A
*  Provide computers & supplies,                       improved accountability.
* tIproved staff skiltt; higher
departmental staff retention.
*  Up-to-date audit reports.
*  To improve analytical    S.  Ek.frle Polien rchh it: Strengthen                  * Rteliable basis for policy deca-      *  199-97.              * DOf
underiming of policy         io ci&deitabaediby:                   ~Sioam.
decisions & budoet.          *  provision of additionsl tocal expertise-         *  Better acro framework for the
*  provision of cquter equipment 8 peripherals;    budget.
provision of other office equipment &           *  Better dialogue between Govt. & the
supplies.                                          Bank & Fund on policy.
* Anusal report on economic perform-
an-to & prospects.



* To iqproe ao ational    .                                                     .copic Af!&r   !via  *nstitutionalizaton of project    * 1992/93-1997/98  ^ COP
efficiency.                                                                         u uPeme t¢nWzt1e;  w t skills.
*   rWide Prolect Adiser.                         * Faciltate isplem_tation of FS
project.
* To lmprove efffiency of 6. C          etral   I    t Settingtip a technical    *  Increased vatue for oneyspent on                          * COF
expenditues on govem-    setor at to provide procurement & bid                   te Govt. contracts.
mnt contracts.              evauation expertise.                              * Trmupamy of CTB decisions  illt
* Support to consultant to prepare procurement      increase confidence.
guidellnes.                                    * Semiannat CTB reports.
* to centrali2e & iSprove 7. Aid iCec"jMt1as:  To strengthen the technical    * Coordinated approach by Govt. to   * 1993-9f                  * DOf
coordination of extermnt   cooperation division of the COf to take over afd-   donors.
assistance.                 related functios of other Govt. agencies bys      * Nore effective use of donor
* training & providing losistical support;          resources by Govt.
* provision of cquter & database softtmre &    * Aialt report on aid couitmentsm
sqp lieo.                                         flows & use.
* To ensure fair, trans-  8.   M of ra- l     eos  Set up a unit in the          * Accelerated flow of essential       * Unit fulty           *   *nk of Sierra
parent & speedy dis         Internati0nal fInanc Dept. a provide:                sports. coqpetitively priced.         operationat by         Leone tintern-
busements of RIC S          * staffing/consultants'                           *  integrity of accomting for dis-       Juty 1992              tiens  finaneo
other funds provided by    *  trafning & logistical support.                    bursesent of aid funds established.                           Dept.).
donOs for eligible                                                            *  Ipproved processing capacity in
isports.                                                                        InternatIonat Finance Deprtment.
* to iqirove operational  9. Provide ceupaterited accounts expert.               * U*sdated & reconciled accounts.     * 199f/%               * 3SL
effifency of OK.                                                              * Accouants reconcitfation with AGO.
S. StructuraL Rffesw
*  to isprove the quality A 1. Civil Service Refom Prera                         * Tifety coordination with owerall   *  Ogoing.              * Civil Seoiee,
coat edfectivenoss of                                                            structural adJustment progio.                                Retonm  codttee
the service & strengthen    a. Coortfaut  
Oovermeents policy             * Estabilsh Civit Service Refor Com.ittee.
iqplementation capacity.
b. funetiohal RevMswIJob Inspectlon:              * Wmre efficient organization.        *  1992/93.            * Civil Service
* Ravib ftictionsworganizatien of selected    * Sudgetary & labor Input savings.                               Refore Comittee/
ministriesldepartments.                      * Nor. rationl tlabor force struc-                              Personnot umits
* Prepape job deseriptions/grade positions.      ture.                                                         in Involtvd
* DeterWine staffing needs by function.                                                                        ministries.
c.                r                               * Payroll savngs.                     *  1992/93             * Dept. of Financel
* thidertako census.                                                                                          Ininistry of
~tion
d.       Sat                                        iqro isproved civil service pay & struc- * 199379          * Estabtie IInt
*Deso i gn  p aent new grading system,          turo.                                                        Secretariat
IAdertake coprebensive sal"ry/sallonces    * Iqovd staff efficiency & work
system review & consolidate besic e.
saiarfgnewtpoancee
*onsion bo perfoomm appalst systeLl



_emwn:jT.   7         7<: r7.77 --. Pro-777                                 , *a>'vSi                                 . .   s  ,m .f  ":. ' 
e. Personnel PlievManaent Informtifn           * Enhanced taff skfi s.             *  Ogoing.            * Civil Service
S:                              ~~~~~~~~* More off Id en? persome inm  * 1993497        *    Reform Cemttee
*  thake priority training proams.             ageont.                          * 1994-97
* Revfse cRlt service rules L rwultion.   * Noe off clent persmnel m-           * 1993-9
* install integrated persaomelpaytoli system.   a_int.
* To redue sixe L iqwove 2.     e E       s   of"                          * Thought-out A consistent polecy    * 1992-97            * COE
efficiency of PE sector.   *  Etbtis th PEROIC;                             toeurds PEs.
* Sgport privatization activities of PEIIIC.
3. Petroliw liht
* Establesh Petroteen Uint (PU)                * More raveveo   yield for Govt     * 1992-97             * DOF
* Mire Petrolae  Expert as Ditector of PU      * Less fluctuation in awvilsbility of
prodcts
* Establish priorities &  4. social L Powgrt Actiln Proorao                 * Coordinated poliey & strategy on   * 1993-97            * SPPAC
strategies for address-    * Establ_nt of ISC as a Poticy Coordinating    poverty & social sector rehebilita-
ing the coLntry's per-      Comittee & a technical Advisory Group (TAG)     tien.
vasive poverty condi-        to ISC.
tions.                    * Carry out analytical studies and design      * Targetted poverty operatiens       * 1993-97            * SPPAC
fundable poverty project interventions.        designed            .-         .
wX
Ii



P1wwrmm Iuit _WT flwa4Cr
#U_1  UWIPEIMM1a1   INCWME (MIL Im  TO1 IAT 1994)
(2. Lin Nru                                                                   T   _f_e_
Experts fn Poaset
Training lola to be gin                                                                            I         I I   
Equipnt to be prowred                                                                   x
Flrrlt fntesrated recuwrent & dvwlEt budgtIIIIIII   III  xIIIIII I                                                             IIIIII
lb) ringe4 Pctl qCbnmordt pUrmt    ^                                      __         i z          UJI l            L          
inst ltatfen of co puer *qdpxent                                                                I I I                           I         X  _                  
D01% Devl      --e of date base oeawtted                                     II11111             _                                  
First cceqxvhmdwnv* ecermaie report        
(e) central T_e _wd        ,.                                              IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII                                     lIIItI
Goveenmont to designate DFS Procurenent as pereaneOnt member_IIL111  1Il.1l 1IIIIII 
Tr infrg starts llllllli^       
_ First sed annwmt repet an CTB qpeatlons                                                     I I           IX |x  I F   I                     
Functlons of IUC Soctreterat truwfHered                                   ! |        |J       I         ,     I       LIII   
T  ransfer of functlons of foreign affairs                                             'I I'11       I rF  I l    I I   I   ;        Ixg     
Transfer of fmtlons of RAoIIIIIII   IIIII|II  I I Ix                                                                             I 
_   first rqwot an aid comitmnts, ftoS id  use                                                           I Ix                  I     I       I              
2. Line llninistHe      _III                                                                       lml
Exprts fn ptzco                                                            I                X|             ||||||I            z
TraSnine twat staff to besln                                                                    I              I XI|III I1 I I l           11 I.
Eopipment prowred                                                                           M           |llT i mm



- - - ; { -- - i~~~~~~~~~~~992                                       :      51993           -              - 994;;:
3.  AcCOUIx    Opt6neat's [bqstrboet (AGO)___ _________________________ _                                                                                  1
Expert staff in ptace                                                                        I  xi   I        I      I                        
First annual repor  of accounts                                                _____ :___X______ ___________I
Staff  _ vtpet straty    corplet d _______X __X_ __________ ____ 
First internet audit rert                                                                                                  x                             
4.  IudNtor 6fionat'so az1Y 1n  t OWU)                                              ______ _______ ___ __ ____ __ 
Rteview of vorking procedwues completed                                        ______             X  ____________________t
Equipment pror  ed                                                                     _      _X_____________________ 
First report oq aydited ar>conto                                               _              _____XI I I I                            
first Auditor 6enerl'is repot to wPRC                                                                                     IX  I   I
S.  Bank of Siet. Loome                                                                                                                          . . . . . .                         
S"f Olsburse et Alnit futty operational                                        _    _x _ ___________________
Accounting Expert In place                                                     _____ _X_____________________ 
1.  Civit Senvice Refom Prograk                                                                                                                
Estabtish Clvil Service Refoft Committee                                             X
StructuSal Study                                                                        I      PI'' ~_______X_____                
Select keV ministries/clbpartments for Job inspections                         __x_________ _ ______________
Draft terms of reference                                                        xX___ _______________________ 
Train Job Inspectors                                                                IX       I I                                             
Review functiamorsog nization of selected ministries/<k%partments                   I        I _____X____________.________t
Preprartion of job descriptions/grade positions                                                     I _             ____X _________ _______I
Decide staffing needs by function                                                                 I I _______ _X_X___ ___________  
Design/iotmpent new grading system                                                                                                                      ]     2
Undertake cozprehenive salary/altowences system review                                                            



Comldste bif c  strfesatll_nes                                                                                                             x     L U e U e_           
iindetak peiority trainine   progras_
Integrated persoane/payroll sWtem                                                                                            II   e X
Rev se cia P ertee rutes &Proram tien                                                                                   I   I I _x
Unerak, . mtfa coma... ,=:   
Establish th EP                                                              .
tA to resttuctur L" B  update ecouts and neotistft  mragoment cmran sts I                     X1                                   
for WM" & W A         ,I   1111   111111IIILII__                                                                                   ___ ___
TA to  liqufd te Mm", divest Govt. botdinss fn SLPR, NIC & MF   r     ____.___
-3   Peroteum Unit                                                                                                                __ ___ ___
*   stabtisbment of PU                                                            l xl I I I         I      I I   I I   II         I           
J4M*fntrent of Direc-tor of PU                                                   I lx  I I          I      IX     I I   I   I   I I   I   -|4|-               
Estab41sh SPAC                                                                      I      lxi I    I   I                              
Establish IAC secretariat to SPPAC                                                     X
Training                      ;
Studies                                                                                            X
K'1



- 27 -                            Technial Annex
Schedule 3
SIERRA LEONE
PUBLC SECTOR MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.      Bank Supervision gf Ky AiiLtes. Following is a table showing planned staff input into
the supervising of the proposed project.
2.      Borrower's Contribution to Supervisiga
(a)     The Project Adviser of the PSMS project attached to the DOP/EAD will prepare
semi-annual progress reports on project implementation and expenditures in June
and December each year. The reports will be reviewed by the Strutural
Adjustment Program Steering Committee.
(b)     Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility of the steering
committee and the PSMS Project Adviser. The committee will hold review
meetings with implementing agencies a month prior to its preparation of the
semi-nual progress reports.
(c)     The PSMS Project Adviser and his counterpart witl normally be responsible for
liaison with the Bank on all matters relating to the project.
(d)     Progress review, mission briefing and wrap-p meetings will normally be chaired
by the Financial Secretary or his appointee. The Project Adviser would act as
secretary and would follow up on agreed actions.
KEY ACTIVITIES AND BANK SUPERVISION INPUTS
January 1°93   To review start-up activities for SAP   Economies, Procurement, Dfsburse-    8
Unit, project imqplementtion arrenge-   nent & systems  natyst.
ments at DCF & PERDIC, ISC; to organ2ze
& carry out a disbursement and a project
launch workshop.
Aprfl 1993     Review Procurement Plan.                 Economics & Procurement experts.     4
July 1993      To supervise financial management compo- Economics, Information Technology    8
nent at AGO, AGD, NOF & four line minis- & organizational DOevelopment
tries.                                  experts.
After July     All project activfties.                  Task manager & others as            48
1993--quarterly                                    _   requfred.
Anmiually      Preparatfon and Review of Arnual Work   Task manager and others as           10
in April     Programs                                 required
January 199    Mid-term Review                          Task mnager, Institutional Deve.    10
Specialist. Training Spec.



SIERRA LEONE
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
TRAIN1NG
A.  Fial Ma                      t
_Amcti0'            - os   .                                                                                         bstv
Basic Accounting              2 eourses each year  New entrants             Fawiltiarize new staff with the working of GOSL & Introduce
(4 eek course)                for first 2 years; I                          them to the accounting system  & procedures.
each year thereafter
Intermediate Accounting       2 courses each year  Accountants              Ensure staff understand the basic accounting system  &
Accountant cenwat (4 week course)                  for first 2 years; 1                          procedures: bookkeeping; salaries; payroll; revenue
each year thereafter                          collection & stores. Familiarize staff with the use of the
computer.
Advanced Accounting           1 course each year   Acecuntants Senior   Ensure staff understand the above in greater depth &
(4 week course)                                     Accountants. &          introduce staff to the techniques of internal audit. 
Principal Accountants
Basic Accounting & Auditing  1 course each year   New Entrants              Familiarize new staff with the working of WOSL & introduce
(4 week course)                                                             them to basic accounting L auditing tedhninues.
Intermediate Auditing         I course each year   Auditors                 Ensure staff understand accounting processes, audit
(4 week course)                                                             standords & audit techniques.  Familiarize staff with use
of the computer.
Auditor General
Advaned Auditing              1 course each year   Audit SuperviSOrs        Ensure that audit supervisors understand audit objectives,
(4 week course)                                                             can draft  Anagemnt letters, iaplement audit standards &
supervise audit staff.
Conputer Auditing             To be determined      Auditors & above        Introduce staff to coaputer suditing.
C2 week course)
Intermediate Budgeting        2 courses each year  Accountants & above   Ensure that staff understand the basics of budgeting L
(4 week course)               for first 2 years; 1                          budgetary control. Familiarize staff with use of the
each year thereafter                          computer.
-uso Bureau
Advanced Budgeting            1 course each year   Senior & Principal       Ensure that senior staff understand budget preparation,
(4 week course)                                     Accountants             how to set budget objectives & monitor expenditures &
revenues.



-29 -                       Tica  Annex
Schedue 4
B.    Other Tnfaing
Preaaion of a progranm for the training of staff and upgrading of staff skldls in the civil
service is one of the activities to be undertaken as part of the civil service reform component of
the projet The program, as well as the details of a strategy to be used in carrying it out, will
be subject to IDA approval. lhe work program and training activities to be carried out by each
Project Executing Agency will be reviewed by IDA on a yearly basis to ensure continued
responsiveness to agency needs and relevance to the broader project objectives.
sg



- SIERRA LEONE - PUBLUC SECTOR MANAGEMENT' SUPPORT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANOGRAM
NATIONAL PROVISIONAL
RULING CONtL
(PlC)
OFFICE Of CHAIRMAN
NTIONAL                          M                                                               ESTAISHMEINT                 NATIONAL AID
AUTHORIZ1G                      ' SALS                                                              SECRETARY'S                   CORINATING
OFFICE (NM)                  OEPm TiT CDM)                                                          OFFICE (ES)               SECRETARIAT (ACS)
C0tlUlCIL   STATE
SECRETARAES    TINALPOL                C            T N I
PCSS) OmI ASTLEATIRS                                                        _
sTTEE
STRUCTURA                                (VW)
ADJUSENT PRG
LMIC                           SEN¢CE
EATERIIISES    I PETLEN V        REFI
Ro bIIT Io  m ojt
(PEDIC)       I (FU)  1- (CSRC)
|   E T||opii  DEPARTNEIIT O F FINWCE,I                                            ETrI                            I 
I   F     IOF                   F II DEVELOPKENT &                  I            F     IOF                F I    I OTHER       I
I V S      IIHTI I                            EC0N0IC PUNNING (DOF)I     EDUClTlell             AgI ILU             DEPARTMENTSI
SW  OfI*II 10EVLPE
*ISIERRA       ....... .......................l&                              ECC I
* ILEO*N.E    . -     :I                                         IIPUI 
IOFFICE (SO)I  .    1        I~EC0MOIC I     IECOMIC I         ICOOPERATION &        SW IscLP CTI            TECHNICALI                         &
I E * I POLICY I I AF~~~~~FAIRS                        I     ICOORDINATION                                        ADVISORYI- R
.   .   *                | RESEARCH |    § ~~~~DIVISION |    1vso 01IIN    | |GJ9LTo                        ROUPIW3 
I CENTRAE  |   :        |  UNIT   I    I ~~~(EA9)               (CCD)      |         "T       I            (TAG)                
-Bo(d b(ocks show wain focus of proJect - 



- 31-
SEERRA LEONE
PtIBUC SECTOR MANAGEMENT SUtPPORT PROJECT
LlSI OF DOCUIINT IN PROJECT FIE
1.    Terms of refmce for er and project ecutg agenida
2.    First Year Work PIs of Impl_g Agenies
3.    Trainbg Plan for Budget, Accounfing and Audit staff and DraR Tran   Plas
tor Other Ageie
4.    Staff levls and mix at Auditor General's Departmen
S.    List of some proposed cnpar to epers and tiWr currica vie



