Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24424
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24350)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
FOR A
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
June 26, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = Leone (Le)
US$1.00 = Le203O
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBSL             Central Bank of Sierra Leone
CRRP             Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project
CSO              Central Statistics Office
CTB              Central Tender Board
DCA              Development Credit Agreement
DflD             Department for International Development
ECOMOG           ECOWAS Military Observer Group
ECOWAS           Economic Community of West African States
ERRC             Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit
EPRU             Economic Policy and Research Unit
GOSL             Government of the Republic of Sierra Leone
IEC              HIV/AIDS Information, Education, and Communication
IMF              International Monetary Fund
LPA              Lome Peace Accord
MODEP            Ministry of Development and Economic Planning
NRRP             National Rehabilitation and Recovery Program
NPAC             National Policy Advisory Committee
OMU              Oversight and Monitoring Unit
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
PRSP             Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSMS             Public Sector Management Support
RUF              Revolutionary United Front
SAP              Structural Adjustment Program
SDR              Special Drawing Rates
SLA              Sierra Leone Army
SA               Special Account
UN               United Nations
UNAMSIL          United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone
UNDP             United Nations Development Progam
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Peter Harrold
Sector Manager/Director:   Brian Levy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Rudy Chizungu



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                               1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry     2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                        7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                         10
6. Sustainability                                                             12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                              12
8. Lessons Learned                                                            14
9. Partner Comments                                                           14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                          15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                          17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                          19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                          20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                             22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                         23






Project ID: P002427                                        Project Name: PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
SUPPORT
Team Leader: Rudy R. Chizungu                              TL Unit: AFT12
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 26, 2002
1. Project Data
Name:   PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT SUPPORT              L/C/TF           IDA-24350
N__uNnber:
Country/Department:  SIERRA LEONE                                  Region:         Africa Regional
_________________ __________________________________ ___________Office
Sector/subsector:  BI - Institutional Development               _               _
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:           02/03/1992                Ef ective:              01/27/1993          04/23/1993
Appraisal:     05/08/1992                 MTR:                   01/01/1995          10/01/1994
Approval:      11/19/1992                 Closing:               06/30/1998           12/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:      GOVERNMENT/SAD STEERING COMMITTEE
Other Partners:
STAFF                          Current                          At Appraisal
Vice President:                Callisto E. Madavo               Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:               Peter Harrold                    Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:                 Brian Levy                      Magdi Iskander
Team Leader at ICR:            Rudy R. Chizungu                 George Alibaruho
ICR Primarv Author:            Smile Kwawukume
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory. U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely. HUN=Highly Unlikely.
HU=lHighly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:                                  U
Sustainability:                           UN
Institutional Development Impact:         M
Bank Performance:                         U
Borrower Performance:                     U
_ _ _ _ _ _ QAG (if available)  ICR
Quality at Entty:                                    U
Project at Risk at Any Time:  Yes
The preparation? ol this report was severely constrained - The micd-telin review report which is an important
documenti Jr tihe ICR couild not be traced. The Couip d'etat in 1997 also led to the destruction of selveral important
documents including projec t aninual r eports. This report was therefore prepared based on the liniteld dlocumnenltalion
available and hiterviews with officials of the Governement of Sierra Leone and the beneficiary agencies. The
management oJthe PIU also changedftr the third tilne and the current Pro/ectIl Advisor is just aboul 18 months at
post acld thercfibre e to not hamee the institutional mneinory of what transpiredfionm the inception oIthtle project



- 2 -
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Context
Since the Seventies, Sierra Leone experienced a period of economic decline mainly caused by external
shocks, poor economic management and unsustained economic reforms, failures in governance. This
resulted in dismal economic performance, severe macroeconomic imbalances, and poor delivery of public
services.
In 1989, the Government of Sierra Leone embarked upon a comprehensive Structural Adjustment
Program for sustained growth and macroeconomic stabilization. The program was aimed at stabilizing the
economy and laying the foundation for a private sector led broad-based economic growth. Structural
reforms geared towards removing distortions to enhance the efficient functioning of the economy, formed
an integral component of the reform program. There were however, weaknesses in the capacity for the
successful implementation of the program particularly in the areas of fiscal and financial management -
expenditure control, budgeting, accounting, and audit.
The Board of Directors of the Bank approved a Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC) on April 14, 1992 to
support the reform program of the government. However, the near collapse of key public institutions as a
result of neglect during the seventies and the eighties, the lack of capacity for divestiture of public
enterprises, and the general scarcity of managerial and technical personnel are serious limitations. Besides
financial resources, effective technical assistance to overcome these limitations was required to
implement the reforms and sustain them. To achieve the aims of the reform programs, there was therefore
the need to improve the quality and efficiency of delivery of public services through building
implementation capacity in the areas of fiscal and financial management.
The Government and the Bank therefore begun consultations in November 1991 to prepare a program to
support the public sector agencies in order to sustain the reforms. Negotiations were concluded in October
1992 resulting in the Public Sector Management Support Project (PSMSP). PSMSP was declared
effective in April 1993 with a closing date fixed at June 1998. As a result of a Coup d'etat in the country
in May 1997, project activities were suspended till June 1998 when IDA lifted the ban on disbursement of
credit for PSMS. However, by May 1997, a significant part (87%) of the credit was already used for
project activities. In January 1999, rebels invaded the capital Freetown and this led again to the
suspension of project activities until June 1999. Project activities were thus significantly disrupted on two
occasions
Original Objectives
The project was designed to improve the Government's ability to implement its adjustment program and
longer term growth strategy by strengthening the capacity of government institutions responsible for
fiscal management. In addition, the project aims at:
(i)  increasing public service productivity by initiating civil service reforms;
(ii)  improving the efficiency of public enterprises and their contribution to the budget through
restructuring and reduction of Government's role as owner and operator of public enterprises;
(iii) improving management of donor assistance through supporting aid coordination and assisting
in the setting-up of the institutional structure for the management of disbursement from donor
program funds.



- 3 -
The objectives of the project were therefore relevant and in response to the myriad of problems in the
public sector. The first objective is in response to addressing capacity requirements for Government
agencies responsible for fiscal and financial management of the economy with the aim of enhancing the
efficiency of public spending and revenue mobilization. The heavy dependence of public enterprises on
domestic and foreign credit, coupled with low productivity, operating with deficits and poor quality of
goods and services underscore the relevance and need for the reform of public enterprises. In seeking to
address systemic constraints in the civil service - low morale due to pay and personnel issues, skill gaps
and inefficient service delivery and performance, the objectives included the reform of the civil service
particularly remunerations policies and administration. The objectives were however narrowly focused on
fiscal and financial management to the detriment of wider governance and accountability issues. This
could be explained by the focus of the project to provide emergency type measures in addressing
constraints to the effective implementation of the RIC supported program.
3.2    Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised during the implementation period.
3.3    Original Components:
To achieve the stated objectives, the project was designed with the following components:
Part A: Fiscal and Financial Management - US$5.03 million
1. Budget & expenditure control - US$2. 15 million
Strengthening capacity in coordinating, budgeting, monitoring & expenditure control via the Fiscal
Monitoring Committee by strengthening staffing through the financing of experts, training of local staff
and upgrading office technology.
In addition, the capacity of Line Ministries in the preparation of budget was to be strengthened through
the provision of consultants and trainers, training of local staff, provision of computers, accessories &
supplies.
2. Accountant General's Office (AGO) - US$1.09 million
This component was to finance the position of an internal auditor to build up the capability of the Intemnal
Audit Division through introduction of properly planned work, reporting and in-house training programs.
The training programs were to lay emphasis on probity and systems audit, The project was also to support
staff development and the strengthening of internal audit through financing of training, expert services,
provide computers and other office equipment, supplies and training materials.
3. Auditor General's Department (AGD) - US$0. 78 mnillion
This component involved funding for two experts to assist in the review and update of working
procedures. One of the experts- an audit,operations and training expert was to carry out audit especially
for works and supplies contracts, build up an adequate database, and introduce new audit techniques in a
computerized environment, and train AGD staff on audit processes. The other expert, an audit
documentation/training and operations expert was to review the existing audit documentation, prepare a
new audit manual and standard audit questionnaires for use by the Department and train staff of the
department. The component was also to support the training at the Institute of Public Administration and
Management, provide computers and other office equipment and logistical needs.



- 4 -
4. Economic Policy Research & operations Unit - US$0.27 million
This division which is not part of the mainstream civil service structure was to benefit from the project
through the provision of funds to hire additional local contract personnel, computer equipment and
software to improve upon the macro-analytical foundation of the budget.
Economic Affairs Division:
The Division was to benefit from upgrade of facilities (computers and computer software and other office
equipment) and staff development through training. A project advisor was also to be provided.
5. Procurement - US$0.17 million
This component was to set up a technical secretariat to provide procurement & bid evaluation expertise.
This was to be done through the provision of a short-term procurement consultant to the technical
secretariat of the Central Tender Board. The consultant was to train the Deputy Financial Secretary
(Procurement) in all aspects of procurement, develop procurement guidelines and procedures and assist in
their implementation.
6. Aid Coordination - US$0.20 million
Provision was made for financing equipment and training in the Development and Planning wing of the
Department of Finance to handle all aid coordination activities with the aim to strengthen the technical
cooperation division of the DOF to take over aid-related functions of other Government agencies.
Provision was also made for the supply of computer & database software & office supplies.
7. Bank of Sierra Leone - US$0.37
(a) A Structural Adjustment Program Disbursement Unit was established in the International Finance
Department of the Bank of Sierra Leone to act as a conduit for the disbursement of funds under the RIC
and other donor-supported balance of payments grants/loans. The project was to finance two consultants
to set up a tracking and monitoring system, install an accounting system and train staff. In addition, a
short-term procurement specialist was to be recruited to oversee the procurement arrangements and train
the technical staff of the CTB in procurement. Training and the provision of logistical support were also
part of this component.
(b) Provision was made for the financing of a computerized accounts expert to be located at the accounts
department of the Bank. He was to support the operations of the Bank of Sierra Leone in accounting and
reporting, debt management and Bank supervision.
Part B. Structural Reforms US$2.63 million
1. Civil Service Reform Program - US$1.43 million
This component was to restore efficiency and capacity for delivery of services. The following were to be
financed by the project:
1.1. consultant services, training of local staff, equipment and operating requirements needed to
establish a permanent, local capacity to undertake and implement results of functional reviews and
job inspections in the ministries and departments; functional reviews/job inspections in five
ministries (Finance, Works, Agriculture, Education and Health).



- 5 -
1.2. consultancy studies for a comprehensive salary and allowances system review and the design and
implementation of a simplified public sector grading system with fewer occupational classes. The
objective of this sub-component was to achieve a better career possibilities and pay consistency
both within and between the different branches of the public sector.
1.3. consultancy service for a comprehensive revision of the General Orders to make them relevant to
today's needs for rules and regulations. Financial resources were to be provided to make the revised
General Orders available within the civil service. To make personnel information of public sector
employees complete and easily accessible, the project was to finance an assessment of
computerization needs for establishing an efficient personnel information system  in the
Establishment Secretary's office, creation of the system and its integration with the existing
computerized payroll system for pensionable staff.
1.4. For coordination purposes, it was planned to establish the Civil Service Reform Committee
1.5. Personnel Policy/Management Information Systems:
*  undertake priority training programs
*  revise civil service rules & regulations
*  install integrated personnel/payroll system
2. Public Enterprises Reform - US$0.40 million
Provision was made under this component to provide support to the Public Enterprises Reform and
Divestiture Commission (PERDIC) which has the mandate to supervise the reduction in the size of the
public enterprise sector and coordinate sector policies. Support was to be in the form of financing the cost
of local contract personnel, and equipment and supplies.
3. Petroleum Unit - US$0.33 million
Provision was made to strengthen the Petroleum Unit by financing the cost of personnel, computer, office
equipment and supplies and incremental recurrent costs. The aim was to develop the capacity for
supervising petroleum activities including developing a procurement and pricing mechanism so that the
PU would be able to monitor and regulate the petroleum sector in matters of pricing, quality, weights and
measures, safety, environmental and technical support.
4. Social & Poverty Action Program - US$0.47 million
This component was designed to provide support to a Social Policy and Poverty Alleviation Committee
(SPPAC). SPPAC's mandate was to arrive at a consensus on priorities and to formulate policy and broad
program objectives aimed at poverty reduction and the rehabilitation of the social sectors and to develop
plans and work programs to address urgent social policy and poverty issues. The project was to finance
technical assistance and logistical support for the SPPAC and a Technical Advisory Group that is
supposed to provide analytical support to SPPAC. Provision was also made for the training of relevant
personnel in the Social Action and Poverty Alleviation Unit and other relevant departments, studies
directed towards applied, policy research and analysis.



- 6 -
Part C. Institutional Support & Other Studies - US$2.16 million
This component was to finance preparatory work, including studies aimed at meeting longer-term
objectives of the Government's adjustment program.
An assessment of the original components
Based on consultations with the Government and the Fund during the preparation of the project, all the
sub-components of Part A - Fiscal and Financial Management were relevant but not prioritized. These
sub-components sought to upgrade the skills of the institutions concerned with fiscal management of the
economy.
The components under part B- Structural Reforms were aimed at initiating reforms to resolve the
systemic weaknesses within the civil/public services. The sub-components for the Public enterprise
reform were aimed at privatizing enterprises whose activities could be efficiently performed by the
private sector and is relevant to the achievement of reducing government's role as owner and operator of
public enterprises. The fourth component under Part B - Social & Poverty Action Program was not a
relevant sub-component. Given that institutional capacity building requires a long term effort, none of the
sub-components dwelt on building the capacity of indigenous training institutions to provide continuous
training services to the public service on a sustainable basis. Too much emphasis was also laid on the use
of several consultants on the assumption that adequate and qualified counterparts would be available for
skills transfer.
3.4    Revised Components:
The components were not revised.
3.5    Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry is rated unsatisfactory because of: (i) the design was very complex; (ii) a weak
performance monitoring system was put in place; (iii) the project was not based on any analytical sector
work.
The designers of the project included very many components without taking into consideration the weak
implementation capacity of GOSL. The design focused on addressing constraints to the implementation of
the Reconstruction and Import Credit for an initial period of five years. Capacity building within the
public sector is a long term agenda but the project sought only to do quick fixes and put in place
emergency type measures. The project also depended heavily on consultants who were expected to
transfer knowledge and skills to counterpart personnel who had inadequate qualifications and were poorly
motivated.
A performance monitoring system was not clearly articulated in the Memorandum and Recommendation
to the President and its technical annex.
The project was designed to address general problems within the public sector and was not based on any
analytical sector work and or priorities of GOSL. The preparation of the project was however done in
consultation with the Government of Sierra Leone, and the IMF. Even though the design of the project
was not based on any analytical sector work, it took into consideration technical assistance programs of
multilaterals and bilaterals particularly the UNDP, UNDTCD, IMF and the EC and was approved by the
Board in November 1992.



- 7 -
The project was prepared and processed within a timeframe of eleven (I1) months. The relatively short
period for the processing of the project could be explained by the urgent need to address constraints to the
implementation of the Reconstruction and Import Credit.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Implementation of project activities progressed steadily till May 1997 and more than 80% of the credit
was disbursed and many studies were conducted. However, implementation of the recommendations of
the consultancy studies could not be done: The Government was changed three times between 1993 (the
inception of the project) and May 1997 at which time a military coup disrupted project implementation.
The subsequent insecurity that prevailed caused most of the consultants who were undertaking studies and
other assignments to abandon their work and flee the country. Thus some consultants who were to support
implementation of recommendations could not have the opportunity to do so. The situation was
compounded by the 1999 rebel invasion of Freetown which resulted in the looting of equipment at the
project beneficiary agencies and the destruction of network systems at the Bank of Sierra Leone and the
Ministry of Finance. Since 87% of the credit was already disbursed as of May 1997, and since the
subsequent four years were characterized by repeated civil conflict, this ICR rates the project principally
on the basis of its achievements as of mid-1 997. Viewed from that perspective, the ICR concludes that the
project could therefore not achieve its overall objectives of improving fiscal management and improved
personnel management. The project could also not overcome its complex design problem and to focus on
achieving its set objectives as there was no adaptive approach to implementation.
Viewed from the perspective of December 2001, the closing date of the project, the picture looks
somewhat different (though not sufficiently different to change the ratings). One of the pleasant surprises
of Sierra Leone's immediate post-conflict experience is that, despite the broader national devastation, a
platform of competence in economic management remained intact. Analysis of how this came about is
beyond the scope of this ICR. Even so, two contributions of the Public Sector Management Support
Project are noteworthy. First, even the modest amount of resources that remained available for
disbursement after May 1997 provided a lifeline to enable some continuity among staff and activity in the
core economic ministries throughout the conflict period. Second, some of the consultancy studies
sponsored prior to May 1997 have re-emerged as of end 2001 as a baseline for continuing dialogue over
the design of public sector reform; they may yet prove to have added value.
It is worth noting that even though the project is rated unsatisfactory at the outcome level both at the time
the military-coup occurred and by December 2001 when it closed, it produced some unintended benefits.
First, it created a sense of awareness and, realization about what is wrong and what has to be corrected in
the public service. This made GOSL to put the reform of the public sector on the forefront of government
agenda. Secondly, the project attracted the support of other donors to public sector reform in the country.
Thirdly, the PSMS project also provided the building blocks for a broader reform program within the
public sector in the country.
Assessing the achievements under this project is constrained by the absence of a clearly defined
performance indicators in the Memoraridum and Recommendations to the President as no SAR was
prepared.
Maintaining macroeconomic policies, and extending and deepening reforms
Economic growth was dismal during the project's life . The overall stabilization of the economy was not
sustained. Progress was uneven during the life of the, project and reflects the security situation in the
country. In 1994, inflation on a year-end basis was 24%, but it jumped from 39% in 1996 to 67% by the
end of 1997. By 1998, the inflation rate had risen to nearly 100% and there was accumulation of both
external and domestic debt. Government revenue decreased and reached a low ebb as a result of cessation



- 8 -
in mining activities whilst defense expenditures increased. Scarcity of foreign exchange led to a high
depreciation of the national currency to Le 2,030 to the US Dollar by December 2001.
Increase in public service productivity
Public service delivery is still dismal. Morale and motivation of most public sector workers is very low.
The poor remuneration packages within the public sector does not make it possible for the attraction and
retention of qualified workers.
Improve the efficiency of public enterprises
This objective is rated unsatisfactory as most public enterprises are still operating at a loss and are
indebted to the utility companies.
Improve management of donor assistance
Aid coordination has improved. The Ministry of Finance has established a system to coordinate donor
inflows. Regular meetings with development partners are held to discuss donor assistance.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Project activities in the form of consultancy studies and supply of equipment to beneficiary agencies and
training programs were undertaken for almost all the components but the intended outputs were not
achieved. In some cases, the consultants recruited to carry out certain activities demobilized because of
insecurity. Some of the vital office equipment that was procured was looted and vandalized. Other issues
such as the unavailability and the poor quality of counterpart personnel also added to the nonachievement
of the outputs. Below is the achievement of each component:
Financial Management
Fiscal Management: There was partial success with this component. The project provided technical
support to the budget process through the appointment of consultants and the recruitment of highly
qualified nationals to advice on the practical aspects of budget design and formulation. The technical staff
directly monitored the production of budget outturn reports and assisted in the achievement and
monitoring of fiscal targets. As a result of this, the frequency and accuracy of reporting of government
expenditure and revenues increased substantially. A new budgeting system was developed and adopted in
1995 which sought to give a framework for the planning, recording, monitoring and control of
expenditures.
Accounting: A computerized accounting system was also adopted in 1995 to improve expenditure control
at the commitment level and monitoring of budget implementation. The coup in 1997 and the rebel
invasion of 1999 completely destroyed the system. Initial gains/achievements within this sub-component
were improved timely processing of payments, improved performance in the reconciliation of bank
statements and improved technological skills in the department. These gains were however, eroded as
equipment was lost and some of the trained staff left the Ministry of Finance
Auditing: This sub-component is rated satisfactory since external audit functions have been restored. The
project supported the development of auditing standards for the Auditor General's Department.
Compliance audit manuals were produced which are still in use. The counterpart personnel have remained
in the Auditor General's Office and have set up a Training Division within the AGD to train staff
internally. The result is that the AGD after the 1997 and 1999 rebel disturbances produced the 1996 to
1999 Audit Reports. The 2000 Audited Report was also finalized in December 2001. The work of the
AGD is however constrained by untimely release of the national accounts.
Procurement: The Central Tender Board was set up to create a better procurement environment in 1993.
The CTB handles on average a total of 60 procurement processes per year-all procurement above a



-9 -
threshold of Le 12,000,000. Annual procurement reports were produced up to 1996. Consultants who
were recruited enhanced and streamlined the processing of tender documents. However, the activities of
the CTB were carried out solely by consultants without any counterpart personnel but only government
support staff seconded to the team of consultants.
Bank of Sierra Leone: The project supported the establishment and recruitment of staff of Structural
Adjustment Disbursement Unit (SAPDU) in the Central Bank to ensure fair, transparent and speedy
disbursement of donor funds for eligible imports. A consultant was recruited for the computerization of
the Operations Department of the Central Bank. This was completed with the installation of equipment
and related network. The training of staff in the use of the system was also completed.
Structural Reforms
Civil Service reform: A Civil Service Reform Committee was established for coordination of the program
with line ministries and other governmental agencies. Functional reviews and job inspections were carried
out, including job descriptions, staffing needs in four (4) key ministries - Health, Education, Agriculture
and Works as a pilot exercise to guide 'government to conduct similar exercise in other Ministries and
Agencies. The government completed a verification exercise of daily-rated staff as required under the
structural adjustment program. In addition, a new grading system for the civil service was prepared which
resulted in the consolidation of basic salaries/allowances structure, including a new performnance
evaluation system. Salary grades are now compressed from 30 to 14 grades. A review of the General
Orders (Regulations) that governed the Civil Service was undertaken in 1995. However, the report of this
exercise never has led to any concrete decision on the implementation of the recommendations.
For the computerization of personnel records, a foreign expert developed the system for the
computerization and trained local staff to carry out, data entry. This exercise formed the basis for
establishing a nominal roll for the civil service against a target date of April 1, 1997. A local consultant
was recruited to work with the data entry clerks in computerizing the personnel records. The nominal roll
was completed as well as the preparation; of organograms and codes for all Government Departments. The
exercise was to be finalized by carrying out a nationwide field registration exercise of civil servants when
progress was stalled by the coup of May 1997. The local consultant is still out of the country and no
information has been received from him.
Another local consultant was recruited to establish a new filing system at the Cabinet Secretariat based on
key word and subject classification, installation of applicable thesaurus for filing and records
management. The listing and categorization of all files were completed but the filing had not been done
since the consultant left the country in the wake of the coup in May 1997.
Public enterprises reform: Achievement! in this area is! very unsatisfactory due to a myriad of problems:
(i) Insecurity posed by rebel activity which also caused inaccessibility to some of the PE, (ii) poor and
depressed market conditions, and (iii) inadequate capacity/weaknesses in the implementation
arrangements. GOSL in 1993 enacted 'the Public Enterprises Reform Act. In 1996, the mandate of
PERDIC was terminated due to poor performance. The functions of PERDIC were transferred to the
Public Enterprises Unit of the Ministry of Finance. The divestiture process has slowed down since 1997.
At the end of the project, 14 out of a total of 44 PEs were divested
Petroleum Unit: The objective of having pump prices reflecting international prices has been achieved.
The Petroleum Unit has assisted GOSL to liberalize the petroleum industry and to relinquish the
responsibility of supply and pricing mechanism to marketing companies in line with current views of best
practice. The Petroleum Unit has proved useful over the years as it has stabilized petroleum prices and
petroleum products are freely available on the open market as a result of timely importation. The
petroleum industry is now a net contributor of revenue to the Government.



- 10-
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is modest. Even though new skills were acquired in computer
literacy, auditing, accounting and personnel management, several of the beneficiary institutions (e.g.
Ministry of Finance, Auditor General's Department, Accountant General's Department, Bank of Sierra
Leone, Registrar General's Department, Office of the Establishment Secretary) were unable to use the
human resources at their disposal as result of the disruptions in project activities and the destruction of
equipment. Senior Personnel from the Income Tax Department developed skills in audit and valuation
through overseas training. However, most of the trained staff abandoned their jobs in the wake of the
1997 coup d'etat.
The impact of Institutional Development can also be assessed by the use of systems and processes
introduced and adopted. The Bank of Sierra Leone benefited from the introduction of a computerized
system for aid coordination. A new grading system for the civil service was introduced and is still in use.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1    Factors outside thie control of government or implementing agency:
Economic situation and political instability, 1993 - 199 7
The project was prepared at the time the country was reeling under severe economic constraints.
Budgetary allocations to ministries, departments and agencies were not fully released. In January 1995,
rebel activity forced the Government to close down the rutile and bauxite mines. This affected the
revenue position of the Government thereby worsening the already precarious position of the
Government. This affected the release of counterpart funds to the project.
Within the first four years of the project, the Government of Sierra Leone changed hands three times. This
posed a difficulty to the project as major decisions on recommendations of consultants were delayed.
During the latter half of 1995, the general elections in the country and the transition to democratic rule
slowed down implementation of the reforms as it distracted the attention of the military Government from
taking decisions on the public enterprise reform.
Tlte Coup d'etat of May 25, 1997 and the Rebel invasion of Freetown of January 6, 1999
Progress on the implementation of the project as reported in the various PSRs prior to the coup d'etat in
May, 1997 was rated satisfactory. By May 30, 1997, the undisbursed balance of the credit was only
US$1,204,011.27 out of an approved credit of US$10,000,000 (87.96% of the credit disbursed). Over the
subsequent two years, many investments made by the project were wiped out. Software that was
developed for the budget system, and at the Bank of Sierra Leone were lost during the coup d'etat.
Additional equipment supplied to the beneficiaries was also looted. The building accommodating the
Ministry of Finance and the PIU was completely burned down, resulting in the loss of several expert
studies concluded in a number of key areas such as job evaluation and organizational restructuring of line
ministries.



- I 1 -
GOSL's attention after the rebel incursion to Freetown was divided and focused more on security matters
and could not immediately define new priorities for the project.
IDA lifted suspension of disbursements relating to the project on June 22, 1998 after the legitimate
government was reinstated in March 1998. However, most of the project consultants(both expatriate and
nationals) left the country and never returned.
Rebels again invaded the capital - Freetown on January 6, 1999 thereby worsening the already fragile
security situation in the country. Disbursement of the IDA credit was again suspended until June 1999.
The project thus suffered another halt in activities. A considerable amount of property (including office
equipment and vehicles) of the project and beneficiary agencies was lost. Additionally, consultancy
reports were lost during the 1999 rebel invasion of the capital.
Support for rebel activities from the country's neighbors was a stimulant for the escalation of the political
instability. This made the Government to divert its already meager resources into spending on the military
to put an end to rebel activities. It also diverted the government's attention from the reforms and led to
revenue shortfalls.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
*  The delay by Government to make decisions on recommendations with respect to assignments
under the civil service reform component did not augur well for progress. Approval was
outstanding for over two years on the "Revised General Orders" of the Civil Service. The
recommendations were sent to Government in 1995 but nothing was done by the time the coup
was staged. Other areas of non follow-up included the follow up on findings by consultants
assigned to the office of the Accountant General.
*  The project document identified the Government of Sierra Leone as the only contributor to
counterpart funds. However, the Government reneged on the fulfillment of this obligation as
specified in the various covenants of the project. This adversely affected the implementation
schedule.
*  Another factor was the inability of the Government to take decisive action on the signing of
contracts for some consultants attached to the beneficiary agencies.
*  The disproportionate levels of rates paid to nationals who were on contract and the need for
Government to harmonize consultancy rates cannot be overemphasized. The delays on the part
of the Government to make decisions regarding fees for nationals and the erratic suspension of
payments-to nationals pending decisions on rates created difficulties for staff of the PIU.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The terms of references (TOR) for the consultants assigned to the various beneficiary agencies were
specific and well thought out but there was little thought given to the design of TORs for counterpart staff
who were to be "assisting and learning" from the advisors.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The Bank credit for the Project was US $ 10 million to be originally disbursed for a period of 5 years and
two months. GOSL was to provide in local currency the equivalent of US$1.04 million. By the end of
December 2001, the project had disbursed a total of US$9,824,968 of the credit provided by the Bank and
an amount of US$227, 262 local currency equivalent out of GOSL's counterpart funds.



- 12-
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated unlikely even though the sustainability of the various activities vary at beneficiary
agency level. Project activities were driven by consultancy services. Some of the consultants were to
transfer skills and knowledge to national staff. However, the national staff are poorly motivated and with
inadequate qualifications. This creates a situation where most of the adequately trained national staff
leave the public service to join international NGOs and donor funded programs/projects. To attract and
retain staff requires that GOSL provide more attractive incentives. However, in a post conflict setting
such as is prevailing in Sierra Leone, it would be difficult to provide this attractive incentive as the
government is not in a sound financial position. It would also take time before the many qualified
nationals who fled the country during the conflict period return. A credit (US$3.7 million) was approved
by the Bank to support a two year project (PSMS 11) to complete some selected priority activities.
As noted earlier, and notwithstanding the above, the project does indeed seem to have helped contribute
to some extent to the maintenance of a basic platform of competence in economic management, which is
an important asset in the contemporary post-conflict period. However, the 1997-2001 discontinuity
occasioned by conflict is sufficiently large - and circumstances so radically different in 2001 than they
were in 1997 - that it would not be appropriate to interpret this reality as an indicator that the project has
been sustainable.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As it became apparent that Sierra Leone was emerging from a long and protracted civil war, the Bank in
consultation with the Government of Sierra Leone started the preparation of a modest, follow-up credit to
continue providing support to public sector reform during the transition. Preparation of this credit begun in
2000 and was geared towards (a) the replacement of equipment which was destroyed during the civil war, (b)
completion of a selected number of high priority activities that could not be completed under PSMS l; and (c)
the financing of new high priority activities, in particular the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and
new capacity building activities to support public sector management reform and implementation. Looking
beyond PSMS 11, in December 2001, the Bank initiated economic and sector work to help clarify strategic
options for public sector reform in the country. The proposed activities of PSMS 11 are consistent with the
Transitional Support Strategy for the country which was discussed by the Executive Directors (EDs) on
December 14, 2000. This project (PSMS IT) became effective on October 4, 2001.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance at lending is rated unsatisfactory due to the overly complex design. Even though
it was noted in the Memorandum and Recommendation of President that the country has a weak
implementation capacity, the designers of the project went ahead and loaded it with a heavy agenda. The
project was also designed on the premise that there would be well motivated and adequate qualified
counterpart staff to receive skill transfer from consultants and eventually remain within the civil service.
This proved to be wrong as the quality of most counterpart staff was poor and most of them left the civil
service during the implementation phase of the project. Thus, the Bank did not bring its rich experience in
the preparation of projects in other countries to bear on the design.



- 13-
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance was unsatisfactory. Eveni thouglh the Bank provided adequate implementation
support through missions to the country almost every,quarter of the year and back-to-office reports and
aides memoire were prepared, the assignment of five (5) different task team leaders during the duration of
the project was a weakness. From the inception of the project (April 1993) to May 1997, four (4) TTLs
were assigned to the project (an average of one TTL per year). Another factor which adversely affected
the performance of the Bank was the conduct of the midterm review of the project. Even though a mid-
term review was reportedly conducted,Athere was no'evidence that a formal report on the review was
prepared and discussed with the borrower. This report could also not be traced in the Bank.
Supervision missions in July and August 1998 discussed the need to reactivate project activities and to
explore the possibility of obtaining additional resources to continue support to the public sector. The aim
was to enable some of the public institutions to continue performing their basic but vital functions. As a
result, preparations for follow-up suppott began in February 2000. The Bank in consultation with GOSL
however decided to use the opportunitylto prepare a new project (PSMS 11) that would provide critical
support to the Government for two years pending the preparation of a more comprehensive capacity
building project. In 2001, the Bank prepared the Transitional Support Strategy which proposes to
undertake a sector wide study on public sector management and also a more comprehensive capacity
building project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is unsatisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the Government of Sierra Leone is rated satisfactory as it participated actively and
effectively in the preparation of the Project from 1991 till its appraisal in June 1992. During the eleven
months of preparation, Government officials showed their commitment to the project by cooperating with
Bank officials involved in the design of the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance is rated unsatisfactory due to its untimely and non-release of counterpart funds,
inability to support operational decisions. that is to make efforts to implement the results of consultancy
studies.
The period between the commencement of the project in April 1993 till June 2000 was characterized by
inability of Government to release counterpart funds., In instances where the counterpart funds were
released, payments were delayed. As at December 2001, GoSL provided 21.85 % of agreed counterpart
funds (US$227,262 as against a total commitment of US$1,040,000 in local currency equivalent).
Another serious factor that affected the performance of GoSL was the inability to make timely decisions
on the recommendations of consultancy reports and implement the recommendations. GOSL also delayed
in making timely decisions on the extension of consultancy contracts at the PERDIC Secretariat
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency (PIU) is rated satisfactory. This is based on project management expertise. At
the beginning, an expatriate project advisor was recruited. Available project documents indicated that
work plans were prepared periodically to guide the implementation of the project and these were



- 14-
submitted to the Task Team Leader after consultations with the Project Steering Committee. Project
management reporting was well executed even though annual reports were not prepared on time.
Comprehensive management reports were prepared periodically and these indicated progress made
against planned objectives and issues planned for the next reporting period. In the area of project
financial management, the PIU did well by keeping good financial records and commissioning annual
audit reports. The procurement process was well managed as goods and services were procured based on
procurement procedures outlined in the project covenants.
7.7    Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of GoSL on the project is rated unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Lessons to be learned from this project are:
(a)  the design should be simple. The components should reflect only the highest priorities of the
Government and not lump together all desirable public sector issues to be resolved in one project in
a country where implementation capacity is weak. The priorities could then be grouped and
sequenced into short, medium and long term plans. The issues which are urgent could then be
formulated in a project and serve as a basis for subsequent projects;
(b) the need for a review and revision of project design midstream to take into consideration external
circumstances and more so if the country circumstances have changed.
(c)  in a very weak institutional setting, it is important to limit the number of studies in a project
because of inadequate capacity to implement the studies.
(d)  it is also important to provide support to building capacity of local training institutions for the
continuous training of the public service rather than relying on consultants and training overseas.
(e)  In a post-conflict situation, the benefits can be large from not closing down completely a project
that is supporting reform in public sector institutions but leaving some modest amount of funds
available to enable some state institutions to perform basic and vital functions in critical areas in
order to minimize state failure.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
NOT APPLICABLE
(b) Cofinanciers:
NOT APPLICABLE
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NOT APPLICABLE



- 15 -
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome /Impact Indicators***
Indicator                                    Actual / Latest Estimate
1. Improved fiscal management                Fiscal management not improved.
2. Improved personnel management              New salary grading system introduced.
3. Significant reduction in budgetary transfer to the  Budgetary transfers slightly reduced
PE sector
4. Effective aid coordination                 Improved and coordinated approach by GOSL to
donors. There is now an effective use of donor
resources.
Output Indicators
Indicator                                    Actual / Latest Estimate
l. Improving capacity for budgeting & budget  Initial development of a budget completed and
implementation                               introduced in 1995 and line ministries trained in budget
implementation but the process was stalled by the civil
war
2. Improving internal control and accounting  Computer equipment and other office equipment
procedures                                   procured and staff trained by a local consultant on
internal control measures.
3. Restoring external audit and oversight functions  Recruited two foreign audit experts to carry out routine
operations. Staff of the Auditor General's Office trained
for a period of twelve months in new audit techniques
and on-the-job operations. The AGO produced the
audited accounts for 1996 - 1999 audit report and the
2000 audit report. Audited reports of for ministries,
parastatals and schools.
4. Improving the analytical underpinning of policy  GOSL now produces a quarterly and annual economic
decisions                                    bulletins which serves as a basis for policy decisions
and a macro framework for the budget
5. Improving efficiency of expenditures on   Consultants recruited, the Central Tender Board was set
government contracts                         up and processes procurement above a threshold of Le
12,000,000
6. Improving aid coordination of external assistance  Training and logistical support provided to the
Ministry of Finance to strengthen the technical aid
coordination division.
8. Improving the operational efficiency of the BSL  A computerized expert recruited and a LAN established
at the International Finance Department of the BSL.



- 16-
Indicator                                      Actual / Latest Estimate
Structural Reforms
1. Improving the quality & cost effectiveness of the  A coordinating committee of the Civil Service (Civil
civil service and strengthen government's      Service Reform Committee) was established and
implementation capacity                        functional reviews were undertaken in 4 key ministries.
A verification exercise of daily rated staff was
completed. A new grading system for the civil service
was prepared and adopted. Also, a review of the
General Orders (Regulations) that governed the Civil
Service was undertaken. A computerized system was
developed for the computerization of personnel records.
2. To reduce the size and improve efficiency of the  14 out of 40 PEs were divested.
PE sector.
3. Improving efficiency of the petroleum sub-sector  The petroleum unit was established with a petroleum
expert as the Director. The unit has assisted GOSL to
liberalized the pricing and marketing of the petroleum
industry.
4. Establish priorities & strategies for addressing the  Logistical support provided to Social Action and
country's pervasive poverty conditions         Poverty Alleviation Unit to undertake studies.
*** The Memorandum and Recommendation of the President did not provide any specific indicators of
performance for both the outcomes and outputs. These are therefore reconstructed from the M&ROP,
available supervision reports and other project documents.



- 17-
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component                            US$ million   US$ million
A. Financial Management
1. Budgeting & expenditure control                 2.15          1.97          91.6
2. Accounting                                      1.09          0.71          65.1
3. Auditing                                        0.78          0.62          79.5
4. Economic policy & operations                    0.27          0.22          81.5
5. Procurement                                     0.17          0.22         129.4
6. Aid coordination                                0.20          0.14          70
7. Bank for Sierra Leone                           0.37          1.56         421.6
B. Structural Reform:                                  .
1. Civil service reform                            1.43          1.05          73.4
2. Public enterprises reform                       0.40          0.83         207.5
3. Petroleum Unit                                  0.33          0.35         106
4. Social Poverty & Poverty Action Program         0.47          0.17          36.2
C. Institutional Support & other studies                2.16          2.01          93.01
D. Taxes & duties                                       0.58          0.17          29.3
Total Baseline Cost                     10.40         10.02
Price Contingencies                                    0.75
Total Project Costs                         11.15         10.02
Total Financing Required                       11.15         10.02
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement    Method 1
Expenditure Category       ICB           NCB          Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                         1.12          0.77         1.92          0.00         3.81
(1.12)        (0.62)       (1.57)        (0.00)       (3.31)
3. Services                      0.00          0.00         3.72         0.00          3.72
(0.00)        (0.00)       (3.72)        (0.00)       (3.72)
4. Training                      0.00          0.00         1.63          0.00         1.63
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.63)        (0.00)       (1.63)
5. Operating Costs               0.00          0.00         1.41         0.58          1.99
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.34)        (0.00)       (1.34)
Total                          1.12         0.77          8.68         0.58         11.15
(1.12),       (0.62)       (8.26)        (0.00)      (10.00)



- 18-
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement     Method 1
Expenditure Category         ICB           NCB         Other2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                          0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00           0.20         2.52          0.00          2.72
(0.00)         (0.20)       (2.30)        (0.00)       (2.50)
3. Services                       0.00           0.00         5.81          0.00          5.81
(0.00)         (0.00)       (5.81)        (0.00)       (5.81)
4. Training                       0.00           0.00         0.58          0.00          0.58
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.58)        (0.00)       (0.58)
5. Operating Costs                0.00           0.00         0.94          0.00          0.94
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.93)        (0.00)       (0.93)
Total                           0.00          0.20          9.85         0.00         10.05
(0.00)         (0.20)       (9.62)        (0.00)       (9.82)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Cumulative Disbursement (in US $)
Year     1993      1994        1995       1996       1997
Total   829,510  3,792,831 -  6,149,497  7,659,630  8,822,423
IDA     826,870  3,755,103   6,065,257 - 7,548,271  8,677,734
Year       1998        1999         2000          2001-
Total   8,822,423    9,441,388   10,052,230    10,052,230
IDA     8,677,734    9,272,255    9,824,968    9,824,968
Project Allocation according to categories ( in US $)
Category     Consultants/Studies  Equipment/Vehicles     Training     Operating      Total
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Costs
Original        4,172,000             3,278,000            1,683,700    730,100     9,863,800
Revised          6,171,238            1,978,609              795,776     730,785    9,676,408



- 19-
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
NOT APPLICABLE



- 20 -
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle         (e. 2 Economists 1 FMS, etc.            Performance Rating
Implementation Development
Month/Year           Count              Specialty             Progress      Obective
Identification/Preparation
11/1991
AppraisalVNegotiation
06/1992               1          I Economist - Appraisal
10/1992               1         Economist - Negotiation
Supervision
06/21/1993            2          lEconomist, I Consultant        HS           HS
(Financial Analyst)
06/21/1993            3          1 Economist, I Civil Service    HS           HS
Reform Specialist, I Financial
Analyst
09/11/1993            3          1 Economist, I Civil Service    HS           HS
Reform Specialist, I Financial
Analyst
02/04/1994            2          1 Economist, I Civil Service    HS           HS
Reform Specialist
06/17/1994            3          1 TTL, I Program Assistant,     HS           HS
I Internal Audit Specialist
10/28/1994            1          1 TTL                           HS           HS
06/14/1995            2          1 TTL, I Program Assistant      HS           HS
05/12/1996            2          1 TTL, I Program Assistant      HS           HS
05/26/1997            I          I TTL (Operations Officer)      S            S
05/26/1997            1          I TTL (Operations Officer)      U            U
11/07/1998            1          1 TTL (Public Sector            U            U
Management Specialist)
09/23/1999            1          1 TTL (Public Sector            S            S
Management Specialist)
06/26/2000            2          1 TTL, I Financial              S            U
Management Specialist
ICR
12/2002               I          Pub. Sector Management          U            U
Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle            Actual/Latest Estimate
Stage_of_Project_Cycle     No. Staff weeks   US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation      42.3              105.7
Appraisal/Negotiation           30.7               80.9
Supervision                    146.2              367.0
ICR                              8.4                8.9
Total                          227.6              562.5



- 21 -
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial. M=Modest, N=Ncgligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                         SU
Sector Policies                        M
Physical                               NA
Financial                              M
Institutional Development              M
Environmental                          NA
Social
Poverty Reduction                   NA.
Gender                              NA:
Other (Please specify)              NA
Private sector development             NA
Public sector management               M
Other (Please specify)                 NA



- 22 -
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                           Rating
Lending                                     U
Supervision                                 U
Overall                                     U
6.2 Borrowerperformance                        Rating
Preparation                                 S
Government implementation performance       U
Implementation agency performance           S
Overall                                     U



- 23 -
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Public Sector Management Support Project, Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, P5880-
SL, October 27, 1992
Public Sector Management Support Project, Development Credit Agreement, January 27, 1993















IMAGONG
Report No.:         24424
Type:     ICR



