Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6901-GH
TECHNICAL ANNEX
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE AND PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
May 13, 1996
Industry and Energy Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 26, 1996)
Currency Unit        =      Cedi
US$1.00              =      Cedi 1,562
Cedi 1 million=             US$ 640.20
SDR I                =      US$ 1.4615
GOVERNMENT OF GHANA FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADM1J         -      Aid and Debt Management Unit
CBA           -      Collective Bargaining Agreement
DIC           -      Divestiture Implementation Committee
EDF           -      European Development Fund
ESB           -      End of service benefit
FY            -      Fiscal Year
GCAA          -      Ghana Civil Aviation Authority
GDP           -      Gross Domestic Product
ICB           -      lnterinationial Competitive Bidding
IDA           -      Interinational Development Association
IFC           -      International Finance Corporation
MESW          -      Mhiistry of Employment and Social Welfare
MME           -      N/linistry of Mines and Energy
MOA           -      Ministry of Agriculture
MOF           -      Ministry of Finance
MOTC          -      Milistry of Transport and Communications
NCB           -      National Competitive Biddiig
ODA           -      British Overseas Development Administration
PCU           -      Pro ject Coordination Unit
PETA          -      Public E'nterprise Technical Assistance project
PIC           -      Public lnformation and Commuinications
PSAC I        -      First Private Sector Adjustment Credit
PSAC 11       -      Second Private Sector Adjustment Credit
SDR           -      Special Drawing Rights
SEC           -      State Enterprises Commission
SOE           -      State-owned enterprise



GHANA
PtJBLIC ENTERPRISE AND PRIVATIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contenits
Page No.
SECTION A: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
I. Project D)esign                                                                     I
A. Project Objective anid Approach                                                   I
B. Cofinanicing                                                                      I
C. Project Risks                                                                    2
D. Prolect Benefits                                                                 2
IL. D)escription of'Project Con wn poelnts                                            4
A. Public Enitcrprisc Ref'oriii Program                                             4
Backgroni ndt                                                                 4
SOE portfolio 1m1aneagcmicilt                                                 4
Preparation of SOE's tfor divestiture                                         6
Transitioni to rcfor-iined lcgal framew\ork for SOEs                          7
Developing poficv and regulatory reformi in key sectors                       8
Strengthiclning SE(' capacit                                                 9
B. Privatizationi                                                                    9
BackgroUind                                                                   9
Ptiblic information and comililiullicationis strategy                          to
DivCstitLIrC of SOE s                                                          10
Support for labor redundancies                                                 12
Strengthening )DC capacity                                                    13
C'. Programil coordiniationi                                                         14
SECTION B: PROJECT ADNIINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Procct Imiplementatioll                                                          15
B. Project Costs and Financing Plan                                                  16
C. ProcLIreImeICnt                                                                   17
D. DisbL rsemenCIts                                                                  17
E. Accounilts. AUdit anid Reporting                                                  18



Schedules
Schedule 1.    Key Project Activities
Schedule 2.    Trainiilg Plan
Tables
Table 1.      Suliiimmar)y of Cost Estimates and Financinig Plan
Table 2.      Key Performiaice Indicators



SECTION A: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
I. PROJECT DESIGN
A. Project Objective and Approach
1.    The objective of the project is to assist the Government of Ghana to implement its public
enterprise reform and privatization program.
2.    The public enterprise reform program will focus on (a) preparing enterprises for
divestiture; (b) monitoring the performance of enterprises, and making information available to
the Government and the public; (c) a review of government policy for the public enterprise
sector, with an increased focus on the management of the Government's portfolio of equity
investments, loans, and guarantees; (d) policy and regulatory reform in a number of key sectors
in which SOEs are dominant - aviation, cocoa and petroleum; and (e) building capacity within
the Ministry of Finance and State Enterprises Commission (SEC).
3.    The privatization program will focus on (a) acceleration of the divestiture program using
newly-approved procedures; (b) contracting out the sale of enterprises to private firms; (c)
arrangements to address labor redundancies caused by divestiture; (d) arrangements to promote
the participation of Ghanaians in the investment opportunities created by divestiture; (e)
implementation of a public information and communications strategy, including periodic impact
assessments with the participation of key stakeholders; and (f) building capacity within the
Divestiture Implementation Committee (DIC).
4.    The project design reflects the fact that it is not possible to predict with certainty the
implementation of a complex, multi-sectoral program, which impacts upon political and social as
well as economic processes, over a five year period. Within the framework of the Government's
expressed commitment to the program and the broad public and stakeholder support which exists
at present, the project has been designed to provide the flexibility needed to adapt to needs which
will vary from sector to sector and circumstances which will change over time. It would also
adapt to the outcome of the processes and reviews designed into the project, such as the public
information and communications strategy; periodic impact assessments; and policy reviews on
how to manage labor redundancies, participation by local investors, the future development of
the SOE sector, and the new sector policies in the aviation, cocoa and petroleum sectors. This
would give rise to the need for enhanced project supervision. The mid-term review assumes
increased importance in this environment, and will be used to review experience in the first two
years of implementation and specify at that time, rather than during project preparation, the
details of the components of the overall program to be supported during the second half of the
project.
B. Cofinancing
5.    The British ODA is providing technical assistance to the value of $2.6million equivalent
to the DIC through the end of 1997. The European Union is expected to provide up to $5.6
million equivalent to assist with retraining as part of a program to address the issue of labor
redundancies created by divestiture. The Government will provide around US$ 1.6 million
equivalent towards operating costs of the DIC, SEC and the Project Coordination Unit within the



2
Ministry of Finance. Proceeds from the sale of enterprises will be used to finance payments to
creditors, workers' redundancy payments, and success fees to private firms appointed by DIC to
privatize enterprises. As part of the mid-term review. the Government and IDA would examine
whether a revolving fund could be established using a portion of the sale proceeds to finance all
of the remunerations of private firms.
C. Project Risks
6.     The principal risks are a worsening of the macroeconomic environment, a decline in
Government commitment and public support for divestiture, and a lack of project management
capacity.
7.     The macroeconomic situation and Government commitment will be monitored as part of
IDA's overall dialogue with the Government.
8.     The Government has reaffirmed its commitment to the program in a Letter of Sector
Development Policy dated April 29, 1996. Recent progress on the program under the PETA
project is consistent with that level of commitment. As disbursements on the privatization
component of the project would be closely linked to progress on selling enterprises, any
significant reduction in commitment or implementation capacity would have consequences for
the remainder of the program, which would be scaled back, and should not negatively impact
reforms or privatizations already concluded.
9.     Measures to mitigate the more direct project risks include the public communications
program, the implementation of more detailed procedures that will provide the public with
greater access to information, the contracting out of the sale of enterprises to private firms, and
the establishment of a central focal point in the Ministry of Finance to coordinate project
management. The project has been designed with the flexibility to accommodate differing needs
and approaches across sectors and over time. In this regard. the mid-term review will be
particularly important and will provide the opportunity to re-assess project risks and develop
appropriate risk mitigation measures.
D. Project Benefits
10.    The benefits of the program that the project will support are:
(a)    An improved climate for private sector investment and development, and thus improved
prospects for growth of incomes and employment. This would result from the specific
investment opportunities offered by divestiture as well as the strong message that
divestiture can send about the role envisaged for the private sector; the greater space
created for private sector activity by the reduction of the state's involvement in
commercial activities, including the promotion of competition through leveling the
playing field; and the improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of services
provided by SOEs, lowering business costs.
(b)    Improvements in the performance of the public sector. Reductions in subventions to
SOEs. including the costs of investment, will free up fiscal resources for higher value
uses and contribute to macroeconomic stability. The project will help the Government to



3
redefine its role in the public enterprise sector to one which has increased focus on
policy and regulatory activities. The Government's financial involvement in the sector
will evolve to one of managing its investment portfolio of equity holdings. loans and
guarantees. The project will also contribute to greater accountability through its support
for building capacity for public reporting on the performance of the SOE sector and on
the divestiture process.



4
II. DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
A. Public Enterprise Reform Program
Background
11.   As of 1994, the public sector accounted for an estimated 35 percent of GDP, including
40 percent of manufacturing activity and virtually all of the financial sector and utilities. The
two hundred or so enterprises remaining in public ownership had approximately 150,000
employees in 1991. Reliable estimates are not available of the values of these enterprises or of
their assets. SOE liabilities to the Government exceeded US$1 billion at the end of 1994, while
the Government had guaranteed SOE borrowings amounting to approximately US$250 million.
12.   The role of the Government in the SOE sector is evolving. As privatization continues,
the size of the sector is being reduced. The Government's role is evolving from one of relatively
active involvement in the management of enterprises to a more passive role in managing a
portfolio of equity investments, loans and guarantees. It is placing increased emphasis on
creating an appropriate policy, legal and regulatory framework for strategic sectors.
Specifically, it has developed and is implementing policy and regulatory frameworks in the
financial, mining and telecommunications sectors designed to liberalize and allow private
investment, and, with assistance under this project, proposes to expand these reforms into other
sectors that have large SOEs, such as cocoa, petroleum, and aviation.
13.   The SEC is the central government body in Ghana for monitoring and assessing the
performance of the SOE sector and for providing analyses and other supporting services to
reform and strengthen the performance of SOEs. Its functions are intended to be
complementary to and supportive of the other main instrument for reform of this sector, namely
divestiture. To give focus to divestiture, the DIC was spun off from the SEC in 1989. The
operations of the SEC have been supported by IDA through the Public Enterprises Technical
Assistance (PETA) project. These operations would continue to be supported under the project,
alongside and in coordination with the development of a portfolio management capability in the
Ministry of Finance.
14.    The project would provide support to the Government's public enterprise reform
program in following areas: (a) SOE portfolio management; (b) preparation of SOEs for
divestiture; (c) transition to reformed legal framework for SOEs; and (d) developing policy and
regulatory reform in key sectors.
SOE portfolio management (US$ 4.10 million)
15.    With the progressive reduction of the SOE sector through divestitures and the reformed
legal framework which moves Government out of the management of SOEs, the Government
will be strengthening its capacity to manage its portfolio of loans to and investments in SOEs. A
key element of this capability will be to monitor financial performance and implement policies
appropriate to its role as owner, creditor and guarantor.
16.   The project would support the Ministry of Finance, working with the SEC, to develop a
portfolio management capability. The objective would be to allow the Government to coordinate



5
and manage the reduction of the size of the portfolio through divestiture, focus on core financial
performance criteria, and address the new financial policy issues created by the privatization
program. Specifically, the function would focus on: (a) maintaining complete and reliable
information on the portfolio, including names and types of enterprises, form (equity, loan or
guarantee) and extent of investment, restrictions associated with the investment (e.g.
shareholders' agreements, covenants with financiers), and updated corporate secretarial
information; (b) monitoring the financial performance of the portfolio (dividend payments,
subventions, repayment of loans, annual audited accounts); (c) advising the Government on
financial policy issues (e.g. required returns on investment, capital expenditure prior to
privatization, dividend policy, on-lending arrangements, provision of guarantees, risk-sharing
with the private sector); and (d) providing information and advice, including impact assessments,
to allow the Government to decide on thefuture direction of and requirements for SOE reform.
including the identification, timing and mode of future divestitures.
17.   Information and Monitoring. Monitoring and assessing the performance of the SOE
sector is a core function of the SEC. Under the PETA project, SEC has been able to develop an
inventory and classification of SOEs, which had not existed previously; monitor and assess the
performance of key SOEs through the establishment of an annual performance contract and
monitoring system; and undertake policy studies on particular aspects of SOE performance.
However, a number of important gaps and weaknesses remain in SEC's ability to monitor and
assess the performance of the SOE sector. In particular, it is not in a position to track financial
and operational trends in the sector as a whole. The coverage of the performance monitoring
system is still in the process of being extended. Information on SOE performance resides in
various databases in SEC, which are not integrated. These factors hamper SEC's ability to
address the underlying weakness in the information it receives from the SOEs themselves.
18.    The project would provide consultant, technical, and training services to (a) develop an
integrated SOE database that would incorporate key financial and operational performance
indicators, including performance on obligations to provide audited accounts, and meet tax,
dividend, and debt obligations to the Government; (b) strengthen the operation of the
performance contract system facilitated by SEC, in particular the analysis of overall sector
performance and constraints (in this regard, a review would be undertaken of the performance
monitoring system); and (c) strengthen accountability by providing public dissemination of
information on the performance of the SOE sector, including the development of a public annual
report on the performance of SOEs. The project would also support a program to publicize more
widely audit reports of SOEs.
19.    Policy for Future Development of the SOE Sector. The project would support the
Government to undertake a review of its policy for the future development of the SOE sector.
The review would address the Government's objectives; its role in the areas of policy, legal and
regulatory issues; the identification, timing and mode of the privatization program; its role as
lender and guarantor to SOEs; the management of SOE's during the period up to privatization;
Government's role as minority shareholder, lender and guarantor in previous SOEs which have
now been privatized; and the institutional arrangements needed to implement the amended
policy. The project would support the implementation of the amended policy, which is expected
to include the building of a portfolio management capability within the Ministry of Finance, with
support from the SEC.



6
20.    Loans and Guarantees. With the transfer of increasing numbers of SOEs into private
ownership, the role of the Government as lender and guarantor will diminish. It is expected that
future borrowings of divested enterprises will be incurred without recourse to the Government.
The current portfolio of loans and guarantees requires attention due to its size (at the end of
1994, outstanding loan balances exceeded $1 billion, while guaranteed balances amounted to
$284 million) and because almost 50 percent is estimated by SEC to be non-performing.
Improvement in the performance of the portfolio can yield significant improvements for
Government revenues. Where SOEs are to be divested with continuing liabilities to, or
guaranteed by, the Government, enforcement of rights under loan and guarantee agreements
assumes greater importance. In preparing enterprises for divestiture, it will be important to
quantify their indebtedness to the Government, including any arrears, and to ensure that these are
appropriately dealt with either before (where a financial restructuring may be needed), or as part
of, the divestiture process.
21.    The Aid and Debt Management Unit (ADMU) of the Ministry of Finance is responsible
for the management of both the asset and liability sides of the Government aid and debt
portfolio. The asset side is represented by loans to SOEs and other enterprises. Budgetary
constraints and the inability to pay competitive remuneration have made it difficult for the
Government to recruit and retain the staff needed to effectively manage the portfolio. The
Government has already sub-contracted to private banks the collection of small loan amounts. It
is prepared to expand this involvement further to supplement the skills and resources of the
ADMU.
22.   In due course, it may be possible for the Government to divest its loan portfolio to
commercial lenders. This would yield revenue (especially where the on-lending terms are
commercial and the original donor financing terms are concessional) and contribute to the
development of local capital markets. It would also place the enterprises on a more commercial
arms-length relationship with lenders and level the playing field between commercial enterprises
with access to Government funding and those without.
23.    The project would support the appointment of consultants to assist the ADMU to design
and implement improved information systems on the loan and guarantee portfolio. It would also
support the appointment of private financial institutions, with remuneration linked to
performance, to supplement the capacity of the ADMU to manage the portfolio.
Preparation of SOEs for Divestiture (US$ 0.3 7 million)
24.    An acceleration and expansion of the divestiture program lies at the core of the
Government's efforts to establish a climate conducive to private investment. Under the
Government's accelerated divestiture program, 110 small and medium-sized SOEs placed on the
divestiture list will be divested, of which at least 48 are to be completed by March, 1997. In
addition, the Government intends to offer for sale at least three large non-bank SOEs, including
Ghana Telecom, by that time. The program thereafter has not been defined in detail, but at the
intended pace, the bulk of the current SOE sector would be divested over the next five years or
so. To enable this program to be defined and implemented, upstream preparatory work of
enterprises for divestiture has been undertaken under the auspices of the SEC, largely on a
contract basis.



7
25.    The roles of DIC and SEC in pre-divestiture work have been clarified. In particular, it
has been agreed that in order to avoid duplication of work and gain maximum effectiveness from
the pre-divestiture work of SEC, DIC will carefully define the nature of the documentation and
preparatory work to be done by SEC before enterprises are "handed over" to DIC for divestiture.
SEC will make available its information at hand-over, and thereafter any additional pre-
divestiture work will be done by or at the request of DIC. SEC would continue, in collaboration
with DIC, to monitor the performance of SOEs up to the point of actual divestiture.
26.    The project would provide consultant and technical services to prepare the extension of
the divestiture program. It would help the SEC to (a) prepare company profiles and identify
issues to be addressed for the remainder of the SOEs to be divested; (b) recommend necessary
actions to be taken prior to divestiture of enterprises. including where necessary clearing of
accounting arrears, title issues, and environmental and regulatory matters; and (c) identify and
address policy issues related to the extension of the program and the preparation of enterprises
for divestiture.
Transition to Reformed Legal Framework for SOEs (US$ 0.35 million)
27.    The operational and financial performance of SOEs to date remains decidedly mixed. A
number of enterprises that have not been placed on the divestiture list have been deemed non-
viable, and are receiving subventions. Others are imposing costs on the economy, impeding
development. The SEC does not have authority to directly supervise enterprises. However, it
has undertaken several initiatives designed to improve the framework for improved SOE
performance and assist in that process. These include the Conversion to Companies Act (Act
461) of 1993, under which SOEs are to operate under reformed governance structures under the
Companies Code. Assisting in the implementation of this framework for SOEs will be an
important focus of SEC activity in the coming years. In addition, SEC envisages assisting SOEs
in adapting their corporate strategies to the new environment, and organizational restructuring
advice as tools to improve sector performance.
28.    The conversion of the legal form of SOEs to limited liability companies holds out the
potential for achieving significant imiprovemenlt in SOE performance. However, for these
benefits to be realized, implementation of the reformed framework needs to go beyond a change
in legal form to encompass effective autonomy from government interference in day to day
managemiient and the exposure of the SOE to market competition. It is through the operation of
improved incentives for performiance that results will be realized. These incentives would be
applied through the clearer accountability to the shareholder embodied in the new framework.
The framework also permits greater financial autonomy to SOEs through the ability to
independently tap private debt and equity markets.
29.    The project would provide selective support to these efforts. In particular, it would
provide technical and consultant services to SEC to (a) assist SOEs in implementing Act 461 by
providing training and assistance in preparing Company Regulations; and (b) develop diagnostic
and action plans for subvented SOEs to facilitate their commercialization, in collaboration with
the relevant sector Ministry. SOE management, and the Ministry of Finance.



8
Developing Policy and Regulatory Reform in Key Sectors (US$ 2.23 million)
30.   In a number of sectors dominated by SOEs, policy and regulatory reforms will be
required to achieve significant improvements in sector performance and privatization of the
enterprises. Comprehensive reform programs are already being supported by IDA operations in
the financial, mining and telecommunication sectors. In three sectors, aviation, cocoa and
petroleum, the Government has initiated policy and regulatory reviews with a view to
implementing reform and encouraging private participation in the coming years.
31.   Cocoa. Cocoa is Ghana's most important income-generating crop. However, the sector
has suffered from declining output and inadequate investment, while farmers have received only
one half of the proceeds of cocoa exports, the other half being used to pay taxes to the
Government and to cover the costs of the Cocoa Board. The Government has been moving to
liberalize the marketing of cocoa, which has been dominated by the Cocoa Board. In 1992,
domestic marketing of cocoa was opened up to private traders. The Government has
commissioned a study, with IDA support, to review and develop options regarding the external
marketing of cocoa.
32.   Petroleum. The Government has embarked on a program of liberalization and reform
of the petroleum sector. The importation of oil, which had been the responsibility of Ghana
National Petroleum Corporation, is being opened up to competition. Tema Oil Refinery, which
is state owned, is on the list of SOEs to be privatized, as is GOIL, the state-owned oil marketing
company. The Government is also developing a strategic approach to sector reform.
33.   Aviation. The Government has recently taken steps to improve the performance of
Ghana Airways and to prepare it for possible privatization. Previously a statutory corporation, it
was converted to a limited liability company in 1995. Private sector representatives have been
appointed to the board, including as chairman. Speedwing Ltd., a subsidiary of British Airways,
has been appointed through a performance-related management contract to fill key management
positions, including that of Chief Executive. The Government wishes this program to proceed
within a strong policy and regulatory framework, and therefore intends to review existing
arrangements in these areas.
34.   The project would assist the Government to prepare Ghana Airways for privatization.
Initially, this would involve a review of sector policy and regulatory arrangements by the
Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC). The project would then finance services,
such as investment banking, legal and accounting, required to conclude the transaction. The
project would also examine ways in which the operations of the Civil Aviation Authority could
accommodate private sector participation. IDA would work closely with IFC to ensure a
coordinated Bank Group approach to the sector.
35.   Reform of the cocoa and petroleum sectors is the subject of dialogue between the
Government and IDA in the context of the proposed PSAC II adjustment credit, which is
presently under preparation. The extent of the support to be provided under the project for these
reforms would be finalized once the scope of the adjustment credit has been concluded later in
1996. Pending this, the project cost estimates include a provision of US$2 million to support
implementation of the reforms. Consulting services would be procured by the MOF acting in
collaboration with the relevant sector ministry.



9
36.    The project would support the development of policy and regulatory reform in these
three sectors sectors by financing specialist services and workshops to help the Government
undertake policy review and consensus building, develop regulatory capacity, perform upstream
preparation of enterprises for privatization, and direct services needed to conclude privatization
transactions.
Strengthening SEC Capacity (US$0.35 million)
37.    Over the coming years, there will be an increasing need to put SEC into a more
sustainable position. Although the scale of its activities is expected to shrink towards the end of
the proposed project, as the size of the SOE sector and its urgent needs for reform are reduced,
ongoing capacity will need to be further developed. The project would, in the context of
integrating SEC's work with the development of portfolio management capacity within the
Ministry of Finance, support the strengthening of SEC's capacity through the provision of (a)
updated office equipment and (b) training of staff. With respect to the latter, the training would
be based on an assessment of staff and institutional needs, and use local resources as far as
possible. Provision would be made in the terms of reference of technical assistance consultants
to transfer relevant skills to SEC staff in a structured fashion.
B. Privatization
Background
38.    The Government is committed to a policy of increasing private sector participation in
SOEs. The divestiture of its ownership interest is at the core of the Government's privatization
program. Divestiture commenced in 1987. The DIC has statutory responsibility under PNDC
law 426 of 1993 for the divestiture, involving the sale or liquidation, of all enterprises owned by
the state.
39.    Initial progress was slow, and the first sale was concluded in 1990. Since then the pace
has increased and by the end of 1995, DIC had signed agreements with buyers or commenced
liquidation of around 120 enterprises.
40.    The Government decided in 1994 to accelerate the divestiture program. In April 1994, it
raised around $350 million from the sale of half of its majority stake in Ashanti Goldfields
Corporation and a further $23 million from the sale of its stake in seven manufacturing
companies listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange. Divestiture of its controlling stakes in the other
state-owned mining companies was substantially completed in 1995. In January 1995, the
Government announced that it would sell a further 114 enterprises. It also approved and
published new procedures for carrying out divestitures, including arrangements whereby DIC
would enhance its capacity by contracting out the sale of enterprises to private firms. In late
1995 and early 1996, the Government successfully floated two state-owned banks on the Stock
Exchange and advertized the sale of a strategic stake in Ghana Telecom. It intends to continue
the divestiture program once the sale of the 114 enterprises announced in 1995 has been
completed.



10
41.   IDA is supporting the accelerated program through a series of adjustment and technical
assistance operations. As part of the First Private Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC I) amounting
to US$75 million, the credit agreement for which was signed in July 1995 (Cr. 2418-GH), the
Government has committed to divesting not less than 48 small and medium-sized SOEs and to
bring at least 3 strategic enterprises to the point of sale. A second adjustment operation (PSAC
II) is scheduled for IDA FY97 and will address the cocoa and petroleum sectors. IDA is
assisting the Government to privatize state-owned banks (Cr. 23 18-GH), non-bank financial
institutions (Cr. 2792-GH), mining (Cr. 192 1-GH) and Ghana Telecom (operation under
preparation) as part of wider sector reform programs. This project would continue the support
provided under the PETA Project (Cr. 1847-GH) which is scheduled to close on June 30, 1996.
42.    The accelerated program is making new demands on DIC. It has primary responsibility
for implementing the program, focusing initially on the 114 enterprises announced by the
Government in 1995, and subsequently on the remaining SOEs of which there are approximately
100. It will do so using new procedures which were approved and published by the Government
in 1995. As the program is implemented, it will give greater attention to openness and public
availability of information concerning the divestiture process, building and sustaining public
support and investor confidence, addressing the issue of redundant labor, and providing
opportunities for Ghanaian investors. The privatization of larger and more complex enterprises
will require legal, policy and regulatory initiatives, requiring DIC to work closely with the
relevant sector authorities.
Public information and communications strategy (US$2.46 million)
43.   The project would support the Government and DIC to develop and implement a public
information and communications strategy designed to build and sustain public and stakeholder
support and investor confidence. International and local consultants have been appointed by
DIC, financed under the PETA project, to develop the strategy. The objectives of the strategy
are to (a) enhance public support for the divestiture program though greater public awareness;
(b) strengthen the effectiveness of the program through targeted communication with potential
investors in enterprises to be divested; and (c) increase the impact of the program on private
sector development through communication with the broader investor community. The strategy
will provide for effective two-way communication.
44.    Once the strategy is approved, it is envisaged that a firm would be engaged, with IDA
support under the proposed credit, to assist in its implementation. The implementation of the
strategy would be coordinated with other public information efforts of the Government related to
divestiture, including periodic assessments of the impact of the program.
Divestiture of SOEs (US$12.66 million)
45.    DIC is focusing initially on the sale of the 114 enterprises announced by the Government
in 1995. Around 100 enterprises will then remain in state ownership. The Government has
confirmed that it intends to extend the program to include the bulk of the remaining SOEs, and
has already commenced preparatory work on the sale of some of these enterprises. Initial work
on some additional enterprises has already commenced. The resources made available under the
project are based on the assumption that the program will continue. The scope of the continuing
program will be defined more precisely during the mid-term review. The extent of IDA support



11
beyond that date will be determined by the results of the review and the feasibility of the
proposed revolving fund.
46.    The Government approved and published new divestiture procedures in 1995 designed to
make the process more effective and to make information more readily available to interested
parties. DIC has prepared a comprehensive manual which sets out in detail how the new
procedures will be operationalized. The manual deals with the preparation of documentation,
advertising, bidding procedures, evaluation criteria and procedures, negotiation and approvals,
sale and purchase documentation, and completion and post-completion matters.
47.    DIC is putting in place the resources needed to implement an accelerated program by
outsourcing the sale of enterprises to private firms. The procedures manual specifies the
arrangements for outsourcing. A register of firms has been prepared following public
advertisement internationally and within Ghana. It is intended that most future privatizations
will be outsourced, at an expected annual average rate of 25 to 35 enterprises, focusing mainly
on medium and large enterprises. The process of outsourcing the sale of the first 15 medium
enterprises has commenced. Not less than 50 percent of the firms' remuneration will be
represented by success fees to be paid from the proceeds of the sale. The proposed credit would
finance the retainer fees and reimbursable expenses of the firms. As part of the mid-term review,
DIC and IDA would examine whether a revolving fund could be established using a portion of
the sale proceeds to finance all of the firms' remuneration.
48.    The benefits of outsourcing are that it allows DIC to accelerate the pace of divestiture by
utilizing private sector resources and expertise; wvith the appropriate financial and success fee
incentives in place, private sector privatization specialists with hands-on experience in
negotiating sale transactions are more likely in certain cases to secure quality investors and
increased sales proceeds in a timely manner: openness and access to information concerning the
divestiture process is enhanced; and it fosters development of the private services sector in
Ghana, through direct use of local consultants, lawyers and financial advisory firms to undertake
divestitures, and throughi the skills transfer arising from associations between local and
international firms.
49.    Participation by Ghanaian businessmen, managers. employees, institutional and
individual investors. and the public at large in the divestiture program has been limited. This is
partially due to the absence of a fully functioning capital market in the country. The
Government has sought to facilitate local ownership through a system of deferred payments for
share or asset sales. However, the system has been implemented on an ad hoc basis and
problems have arisen with its administration, in particular in relation to collection of the deferred
balances. The project would support the Government and DIC to identify and put in place
sustainable arrangements to address this issue. Among the options which will be examined are
preferential ownership plans for employees, Employee Share Option Plans, arrangements for
management buy-outs, structuring sales of assets or shares in smaller lots to facilitate interest by
smaller investors, the use of the Privatization Trust to be established under the Non-Bank
Financial Institutions Project, and facilitating local institutional investors.
50.    A series of indicators have been identified to measure performance on the divestiture
program. These include numbers of enterprises divested (analyzed by small medium and large,
and by mode of divestiture); number of divestitures out-sourced; net proceeds on divestiture;



12
level of deferred payments and arrears arising under deferred payments (individual and
aggregate); and average time taken to divest enterprises.
Supportfor Labor Redundancies (US$7.14 million)
51.    Enterprises have three forms of non-wage liabilities in respect of their employees -
termination/severance benefits, end-of-service benefits (ESBs), and social security contributions.
Termination benefits are payable when through internal reorganization or change in economic
conditions specific classes of workers are no longer required, while severance payments are
payable when the company is wound up or a new ownership arrangement results in dismissal of
members of the work force. The provisions for termination and severance payments are by
convention set out in collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) negotiated between the trade
union and the enterprise. ESBs (lump sum retirement or termination benefits payable to retiring
workers in lieu of pension) were discontinued in 1991 and all obligations of the Govemment
have since been paid or provided for. Social security payments are payable to the Social
Security and National Insurance Trust at a rate of 12.5 percent by all employers, public and
private. They are generally up to date, but in some cases there are arrears.
52.    Labor issues in recent divestitures have been handled on an ad hoc basis. The
entitlements of junior employees are normally recorded in CBAs. Senior employees and
management have negotiated similar or more generous agreements, but their standing appears
less certain as the agreements are not recognized as CBAs and have effectively been negotiated
by senior employees with themselves. While there is no explicit policy and there is some
inconsistency in application from enterprise to enterprise, a general pattern has emerged. It
shows that payments for junior staff will be in the range of 6 to 15 months, with most in the
range of 8 to 10 months, of salary, generally irrespective of the length of service. Similar
payments have been made in respect of senior staff, although more generous provisions had
sometimes been negotiated. Profitable enterprises pay somewhat higher severance packages
than weaker ones, although ability to pay is generally not a factor in negotiating CBAs. Where
workers suffer no break of employment, they are not entitled to severance payments. Most
payments are ultimately agreed to by the Government rather than management, and these
payments are often less than the level negotiated in the CBA. While there have been cases of
unions initiating court action, both sides have generally preferred to negotiate a solution. There
have been many exceptions to the above general picture however and some recent cases have
shown that costs to the Government are increasing.
53.    There is no reliable estimate of the potential liability for severance and termination
payments arising from the divestiture program. Rough estimates are that up to 40,000
employees may be affected, at a cost of around US$ 40 million. This compares to over 60,000
redundancies from the civil service reform program and around 100,000 in the Cocoa Board in
the late 1980s and early 1990s.
54.    There is evidence that the behavior of both management and workers changes once the
intention to privatize an enterprise is announced. There is therefore a need to take immediate
action, even before the sale process commences, in such areas as forbidding the renegotiation of
existing CBAs without the Government's approval, instituting a complete freeze on recruitment,
ensuring that all social security payments are up to date, identifying the potential level
redundancies, and preparing the labor input to the divestiture strategy.



13
55.    Despite these difficulties, and the delays which they have caused in the divestiture
program, the Government has been sensitive to the issue and has generally succeeded in
negotiating down CBA terms to levels which have been accepted by workers and do not
generally appear excessive. Discussions with a sample of purchasers do not report any ongoing
labor problems. There is also some evidence of success stories, with post-employment levels in
some enterprises increasing despite initial redundancies, and wage levels also increasing.
56.    The project would support the Government's efforts to manage labor redundancies
caused by the divestiture program. The objectives are to ensure that investors are offered a
"clean slate" enterprise with all outstanding liabilities to employees resolved or properly
provisioned for; the negotiation of equitable, legally defensible and affordable packages for
those employees adversely affected by restructuring and divestiture; maintenance of good
industrial relations throughout the process; and provision of retraining packages for staff made
redundant.
57.    Specifically the project would support (a) a participatory review of the Government's
policy for dealing with labor redundancies; (b) the preparation of an estimate of the potential
number of employees to be made redundant and the associated costs; (c) arrangements to
communicate the policy to the public and workers, including at the level of each enterprise; (d)
putting in place an appropriate institutional framework and the implementation of an action
program to implement the revised policy; (e) an assessment of the impact of the program on
workers; and (f) measures to mitigate the potential extent of the problem, such as facilitating
where possible the early re-hire of workers by the in-coming buyer, the introduction of voluntary
redundancy packages for all SOEs, the introduction of training and redeployment support
schemes (building on the experience gained with the civil service and Cocoa Board) and the
introduction of a standard workforce communications checklist.
58.   The European Development Fund (EDF) would provide funds in support of re-training
and redeployment of redundant workers. IDA would support the policy review, institutional
arrangements, communications, training, and other impact mitigation measures.
Strengthening DIC capacity (US$ 5.43 million)
59.    Notwithstanding the decision to increase the participation of private firms in the
divestiture transaction process through outsourcing, the scale of DIC's activities will increase. It
will have additional responsibility for managing and monitoring a comprehensive outsourcing
program and will be required to do so in a timely manner. It will retain its current responsibility
for the development and implementation of the overall divestiture program by continuing to
review and decide upon all divestiture transactions and by being involved directly in some of the
smaller divestiture transactions, albeit on a reduced scale. Finally, it will be responsible for the
implementation of an expanded communcations strategy, improved financial and operational
information systems, and assisting with the implementation of the labor redundancy program.
DIC is expected to be disbanded when the program is complete.
60.    The ODA is presently making US$2.6 million equivalent available through to the end of
1997 to support four full-time advisers in DIC with specialist expertise in privatization, as well
as short-term consulting support and office equipment. It will consider extending its assistance



14
at that time. DIC will appoint counterpart staff on a contract basis for each of these positions.
DIC's operating costs will be financed by budgetary support and a portion of the proceeds from
sales.
61.    Consultants have been engaged under the PETA project to design and implement
comprehensive new financial and operational information systems within DIC. Comprehensive
performance indicators have been identified and the systems designed will allow actual
performance against these targets to be measured. The project would provide support to DIC to
implement these systems. Independent external auditors acceptable to IDA would be appointed
to audit DIC's accounts, including the Divestiture Account. The audited accounts would be
published.
C. Program Coordination
62.    Several agencies are involved in the reform and privatization of SOEs. The DIC,
reporting to the Office of the President, has statutory responsibility for the sale of all SOEs
approved for divestiture. Sector ministries, SEC, and a number of regulatory and other agencies
have various responsibilities with respect to SOEs. Shares in SOEs which have been converted
to limited liability companies are vested in the Minister of Finance, who also is responsible for
all financial policy issues, as well as the large portfolio of govemment loans and guarantees to
the sector. The reform and privatization program affects many other stakeholders, including
private investors, workers, creditors, and customers.
63.    The scale and complexity of the reform program has increased. The Government
approved in 1995 an accelerated divestiture program and new divestiture procedures. The
privatization of strategic enterprises necessarily involves an upstream examination of, and
possible changes to, the legal, policy and regulatory environment. Good progress has been made
on the liberalization and privatization of the mining, banking, and telecommunications sectors.
Reforms are also planned in the aviation, cocoa, petroleum, infrastructure, and non-banking
financial sectors. IDA is supporting reforms in most of these sectors through a mix of
adjustment, investment and technical assistance operations. The need to build and sustain public
support and investor confidence, address the issue of redunidant workers, and promote
opportunties for local investors has added to the complexity of the program.
64.    The Govemment intends to strengthen its capacity to implement the program and to
improve coordination among all the agencies involved. It has established a Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) and appointed a Project Coordinator within the Ministry of Finance. The PCU
would also administer the project. The project would provide support to the PCU amounting to
US$1.18 million in the areas of training, consulting services to address and advise on policy
issues and assist with implementation, and operating costs. Further details are provided in
Section B.



15
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND
IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Implementation
65.   The Ministry of Finance would be responsible for overall program coordination and
implementation of the project. The PCU has been established and a Project Coordinator
appointed. It would be disbanded on completion of the project. The Coordinator would report to
the Director of the International Economic Relations Division in the Ministry of Finance. The
PCU would promote communication between the various implementing agencies, administer
disbursements, provide advice on procurement, and prepare project progress reports. Training
would be provided to the staff of the PCU and other implementing agencies on procurement and
disbursements. A detailed Project Implementation Plan has been prepared. The project would
be completed in June 2001 and the credit would close on December 31, 2001.
66.   The Project Coordinator would be assisted by a project accountant, to be financed from
the credit, and support staff. The Government would provide office accommodation. Equipment
and a vehicle would be financed from the credit.
67.   A mid-term review would take place around two years after effectiveness. It would
review progress on implementation of the project and decide what changes, if any, would need to
be made for the remainder of the project period. This would include an assessment of the impact
of the reform and divestiture program. The Government and IDA would discuss the actions
which would need to be taken to mitigate negative impacts. The Government would confirm its
plans for the future development of the SOE sector, including for the privatization of the
remaining SOEs. The Government and IDA would review the feasibility of establishing a
revolving fund which would use a portion of the proceeds from the sale of enterprises to pay all
of the fees and expenses of private firms contracted to sell the enterprises. Based on the review
of the Government's privatization plans and the feasibility of the revolving fund, a decision
would be made on the extent of IDA support required for the remainder of the project.
68.   The individual implementing agencies will be responsible for implementing the various
project components, as set out in the following table. All of the agencies have previous
experience in implementing IDA financed projects.
Coordination of project implementation   MOF
Divestiture                      DIC, working with sector Ministries on
strategic transactions
Management of the SOE portfolio  MOF and SEC
Management of the program to address   MESW assisted by DIC
labor redundancies
Aviation, cocoa and petroleum sectors   Sector ministries and MOF



16
69.    DIC's capacity to implement the accelerated divestiture program would be strengthened
by contracting out the sale of most enterprises to private firms, technical assistance provided by
the British ODA, support under the proposed project for training, improved information systems,
and a communications strategy. On-going dialogue with stakeholders would be facilitated by the
communications strategy and regular assessments of the impact of the program.
70.    SEC's implementation capacity has already been established under the PETA project.
The project would support the development of a portfolio management capability within the
Ministry of Finance, involving the ADMU and in collaboration with the SEC. The capacity of
the ADMU will be enhanced by consulting services, training of personnel, and contracting out
debt management functions to private financial institutions.
71.    The Redeploymenit Management Secretariat Committee within the Ministry of
Employment and Social Welfare, working with DIC, will take the lead in implementing the
component to address labor redundancies caused by divestiture. It has experience in dealing
with large scale redundancies within the public sector in recent years, in particular within the
civil service and cocoa sector. It would form the focal point of support to be provided under the
project.
72.    Reforms in the aviation, cocoa and petroleum sectors will in general be led by the
Ministry of Finance and the relevant sector ministries, with DIC involved as appropriate for
privatization of enterprises. More specific implementation arrangements will be specified once
the policy direction in each sector has been agreed and an action program prepared for
implementation of the agreed policies.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
73.    The estimated project costs and financing plan are summarized in the following table:
Public Enterprise Reform Program              7.40
Privatization Program                        27.68
Program Coordination                          1.17
Total                                      36.25
0~ ~ I)c X   !::X|--- jThRn*4c#*   -:- -   ilL- -
Government                                    1.64
IDA                                          26.45
European Development Fund                      5.57
British ODA                                   2.59
Total                                      36.25
74.    A more detailed summary of project costs and financing is set out in Table 1. Detailed
schedules in support of the estimates are contained in the Project Implementation Plan.



17
Procurement
75.   Consultant services would be procured according to the relevant IDA procedures.
Procurement would be carried out by the individual implementing agencies all of whom have
prior experience of IDA financed projects, with procurement advice available from the
coordination unit within the Ministry of Finance. Draft terms of reference for most of the major
consulting contracts to be financed under the Project have already been prepared by the
Government. These will be finalized after further discussions with IDA and are available in the
project files and in the Project Implementation Plan. IDA's standard fonns of consultant
contract would be utilized, including a short-form letter for direct contracting of individual
consultants for short-term assignments. The procedures and documentation to be employed by
DIC in outsourcing the sale of enterprises to private firms have been documented in DiCs
detailed procedures manual and are consistent with IDA guidelines. Consultant contracts with
firrms in excess of US$ 100,000 equivalent and with individuals in excess of US$50,000
equivalent, as well as all contracts subject to sole source procurement, would be subject to IDA's
prior review.
76.   Goods would be procured as follows: (i) National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for
contracts valued at more than US$100,000 and less than US$200,000 (not exceeding
US$500,000 in the aggregate), using standard bidding documents approved by IDA; and (ii) for
contracts valued at less than US$50,000, through national shopping procedures acceptable to the
IDA (not exceeding US$400,000 in the aggregate). It is not anticipated that there will be any
contract for goods in excess of US$200,000. In the event that, during project implementation, a
contract for goods is expected to exceed US$200,000, ICB will apply, using IDA issued standard
bidding documents. Prior review will be mandatory for all ICB and NCB procurement as well as
for the first contract through shopping.
Disbursements
77.   Disbursements will be administered by the PCU. To facilitate project implementation, a
Special Account in US dollars would be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The
authorized allocation would amount to US$500,000 and would cover four months of eligible
expenditures. Upon credit effectiveness, US$250,000, representing 50 percent of the authorized
allocation, would be deposited into the Special Account. The remaining balance would be made
available when needed. The Special Account would be used for all eligible expenditures below
US$100,000.
78.   A second Special Account would be made available to DIC once new accounting
systems have been established to the satisfaction of IDA. The authorized allocation would
amount to US$500,000 and would cover four months of eligible expenditures. Upon opening the
account, US$250,000, representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation, would be deposited
into the Special Account. The remaining balance would be made available when needed. The
Special Account would be used for all eligible expenditures below US$ 100,000.
79.   The Special Account(s) would be replenished monthly. Replenishment applications
would be fully documented except for: contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent for goods
and consulting services (firms), US$50,000 equivalent for consulting services (individuals), and
training and operating costs which may be claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditure.



18
All supporting documentation would be retained for review by periodic IDA supervision
missions and external auditors.
80.    Retroactive financing for consulting services and related equipment procured under
Bank Guidelines and other expenditure incurred after July 1, 1996 is proposed, up to a limit of
US$2.00 million, equivalent to around 10 percent of the proposed amount of the credit. The
project is expected to be completed by June 30. 2001. The closing date is December 31, 2001.
Accounts, Audit and Reporting
81.    The maintenance of records and the preparation of accounts and progress reports will be
carried out by the PCU. One full-time official will be responsible for maintenance of records
and the preparation of accounts. The project accounts, the special account and the statemen!s of
expenditures will be audited each year by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA. The audit
report will be provided to IDA within 120 days of the financial year end. Audited financial
statements will also be provided to IDA, with auditors acceptable to IDA, by DIC and SEC.
Terms of reference for the work of the auditors have been agreed and are available in the project
files.
82.   In addition to the financial reporting, a full progress report will be prepared and
submitted to IDA every quarter. This report will detail all project and related activities, report on
progress in relation to agreed schedules, and identify any problems which may have been
encountered and which could adversely affect the overall impact of the project. The reports will
also provide infonnation against the target performance indicators. Each of the implementing
agencies will provide information to the PCU to allow the reports to be prepared in a timely
fashion. The format and content of the reports, and the responsibilities of each agency in relation
to the report, are detailed in the Project Implementation Plan.
83.    The progress reports wvill monitor progress using a range of performance monitoring
indicators. The key indicators are listed in Table 2. For a number of indicators, specific targets
have been identified. For others, base line data are not presently available. An early task within
the project will be to identify current base lines against which future targets can be determined.
84.    Consultants have been engaged under the PETA project to design and implement
comprehensive new financial and operational information systems within DIC. The systems
designed will allow actual performance against the agreed targets to be measured. The project
would provide support to DIC to implement these systems. Independent external auditors
acceptable to IDA would be appointed to audit DIC's accounts, include the Divestiture Account.
The audited accounts would be published.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE AND PRIVATIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
I                            I                     |   Resp.         Target        Costs'
Main Objective        Project Component          Expected Output       Agency         Date        (US$'000)                   Benefits
Public EnterpriwRefrm Program
Strengthen         Determine Government policy    Revised Government   MOF, with    Ql 1997                600  Strengthened monitoring of financial
management of      for the future development and   policy and        SEC                                        performance of SOEs in the framework of
SOE refomi         performance of the SOF sector.  performance measures                                          clear financial policies would contribute to
program.                                         for the future                                                  greater accountability and an improved
development and                                                 basis for decisions by the Govemment on
Develop            Assist with the implementation   performance of the                                          the future management of the SOE
Government         of the policy, focusing on    SOE sector.                                                     portfolio, including the disposition of its
capacity to manage  financial performance and                                                                    shares.
declining portfolio   policy.                    A portfolio          MOF, with    On-going               1,048
of loans and                                     management           SEC           from Q2
investments in                                  capability within                   1997
SOEs.                                            MOF, working with
SEC, to implement the
Policy and                                      revised policy
regulatory reform
in key sectors.
Development of integrated SOE  Up to date information  SEC       Ql 1997                374  Strengthened monitoring and public
database to track key        on the status and                                               information on SOEs would contribute to
operational and financial    performance of the                                              improved perfommance of the public sector
performance indicators.      SOE portfolio                                                   through greater accountability. Improved
sector performnance, including reductions
in subventions and loans to SOEs, would
free up scarce fiscal resources for higher
Costs include physical and price contingencies, and exclude taxes and duties.
o% 



.                         Resp.    [   Target   |   Costs'
Main Objective        Project Component           Expected Output       Agency         Date    |  (US$'O00)                     Benefits
value uses and contribute to
macroeconomic stability.
Review and improvement of     Review of             SEC          Ql 1997                 386
performance contract system.    performance contract
system.
Implementation of                  From Q2
improved system for                 1997
closely monitoring the
performance of key
enterprises.
Public dissemination of       Annual report on SOE   SEC          From Q3                261
information on performance of   sector performance.               1996
SOE sector.
Publication of audit    SOE's
reports by SOEs                                            131
Strengthen information and    Installation of SOE   MOF          Q2 1997                1,297  Improved debt information and collection
collections systems for       loan and guarantee    (ADMU)                                     performance on a portfolio of loans and
Government loans and          information systems                                              guarantees estimated to exceed $1.5
guarantees to SOEs            in Aid and Debt                                                  billion would mobilize resources for the
Management Unit in                                               government and place SOEs on a more
MOF.                                                             commercial footing.
Contract out elements   MOF         From Q2
of the management of  (ADMU)        1997
the portfolio to private
firms.
Consider divestiture    MOF         Discuss
of loan portfolio, as               during mid-
SOEs are privatized.               term review
.________________________  _________________  _(Q 4         1998)
Preparation of SOE for        Production of business  SEC         By mid-term            370  Upstream preparation of SOEs for
Divestiture                   profiles of SOEs                    review (Q4                   divestiture would contribute to ability of
remaining in                        1998)                        Government to extend the privatization
Govemment                                                        program beyond the current list, and to
t a



I                      1 -   ~   -   -   }    Resp.  Target  Costs'
Main Objective          Project Component        |  Expected Output         Agency          Date      |  (US$'OOO)                     Benefits
ownership.                                                           address possible impediments to
divestitures without slowing the overall
Identification of                                                   pace of privatization.
policy issues and
impediments to
divestiture of SOEs.
Recommendations of
necessary actions to
be taken prior to
divestitures, e.g.
accounting arrears,
title issues,
environmental
considerations,
._________________                       regulatory  issues.
Implementation of reformed     Training and            SEC           Annual                    348  Conversion of SOEs to limited liability
framework for SOEs             assistance to SOEs                    training                        companies will provide for greater
that have converted                   modules                        autonomy and accountability during the
legal form to limited                                                period they remain under state ownership.
liability comnpanies.                                               In conjunction with the strengthened
portfolio management capacity, the
program would lead to improved financial
and operating performance of SOEs.
Policy and regulatory reform in   Sector policy and    MOF, MOA    Policy                    2,232  This component expands the reform and
cocoa, petroleum and aviation    regulatory reviews.   (Cocoa);      reviews                        privatization program into additional
sectors                                                MME           complete by                     strategic sectors, building on the
Assistance in          (Petroleum)   mid-term                        experience already gained in the financial,
implementation of      MOTC,          review (Q4                     mining and telecommunication sectors. It
new framework.         GCAA           1998).                         directly supports the implementation of
(Aviation),   Implemen-                      reform policies to be agreed between the
Assistance to facilitate   DIC.       tation will                    Government and IDA under the proposed
private participation,                commence                       second Private Sector Adjustment
including divestiture.                once policy                    operation planned for IDA FY 1997.
reviews are
._________________  ._________ __________ _______   __ __________ ______ _  com plete .  .
Strengthen SEC capacity        Targeted support to     SEC           From Q3                   348  This support will build SEC's capacity to
o .h



    .                                  |   ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~Resp.  Target  Costs' 
|Main Objective         Project Component            Expected Output  [  Agency             Date         (US$. 00o)                    Benefits
SEC in the areas of                   1996                           implement the components of the project
training and                                                        for which it is responsible.
.                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~equipment.l
Total Cost of Public Fnterprise Reform Program                                                                    7.396
Accelerate pace of   Strengthen capacity of DIC to    Majority of 114 SOEs   DIC          Mid-term                5,428  Removal of the state from ownership of
privatization, usil1g   manage and implement        on privatization list to              review (Q4                     commercial enterprises through
improved            divestiture program through     be divested.                          1998)                          privatization would contribute to an
procedures          introduction of new divestiture                                                                      improved climate for private sector
procedures, new information     Plan for divestiture of               Mid-term                      development by providing greater
and financial management       majority of remaining                 review (Q4                     opportunities for private investment,
systems, staff training,       SOEs (approx. 100).                    1998)                          leveling the playing field between public
appointment of external                                                                              and private sectors, and improvement in
advisors, and targeted support    Divestitiure of                     Project                       the efficiency and effectiveness of
for DIC operations.            majority of remaining                 closing date                   services, lowering business costs.
SOEs.                                (Q4 2000)
Strengthening of DIC's capacity will allow
Improved financial                   Q4 1996 and                     it to implement the divestiture program,
and operational                       thereafter                     which is a central part of the
information on the                                                   Government's PE reform program, using
privatizaticn program                                                more efficient and open procedures.
for management and                                                   Enhanced capacity will also allow DIC to
external parties.                                                    manage the program of outsourcing the
sale of SOEs to private firms.
The capacity developed within DIC will
be available in the longer term to promote
further private sector participation in areas
traditionally the preserve of the public
sector.
Outsource divestitures         The majority of new     DIC            At least 20           12,655  Contracting out would contribute to a two-
divestitures, in                      SOE                            to three-fold acceleration in the pace of
particular medium and                 divestitures                   privatization and improvement in the
large size enterprises,              to be                           quality of the program through more
would be contracted                   contracted                     openness using professional and
Mrj
0 e



l                              l                          Resp.         Target |    Costs'
Main Objective         Project Component           Expected Output        Agency          Date        (US$'000)                     Benefits
out to private firms.               out annually              _   experienced private sector firms, would
Disbursements under                                               increase the likelihood of securing quality
the project are directly                                          investors and better price; and would
linked to progress on                                              foster the development of local private
outsourcing.                                                       sector capacity in financial and consulting
services.
Review whether the                  Mid-term
proceeds from the sale               review (Q4                    By ensuring the not less than 50% of the
of enterprises will be               1998)                         proceeds are based on success fees,
sufficient to cover the                                            appropriate incentives are built into the
full costs of                                                      process to maximize proceeds and
outsourrcing.                                                      minimize the use of scarce IDA resources.
Build and sustain   Development arid               PIC strategy           DIC           Q3 1996               2.461   An effective public information and
public and         implementation of two-way                                                                          communications strategy would strengthen
stakeholder support  public informationi and       Implementation of                    Ongoing                       public support for the divestiture program;
and investor        communications (PIC) strategy   PIC strategy                        from Q3,                      improve the effectiveness of the program
confidence.                                                                             with                          by reaching relevant investors and
particular                    providing feedback; and leverage the
emphasis on                   impact of the program through
the early                     communications with the broader investor
years (1996                   community.
and 1997)
Impact assessment                   Ongoing (Q4                    The periodic participatory impact
1996; Q4                      assessments will allow the negative
1998; Q4,                    impacts of the program to be identified
2000)                         and remedial action taken.
Increase            Review of options to promote    Consulting study to  DIC            Q4 1996       Included in     Diversification of ownership of divested
participation by   local involvement.             identify options                                    cost of DIC     enterprises within Ghana would contribute
Ghanaians in                                                                                          support         to stronger public support for
investment          Implementation of selected    Implementation of                     Ongoing                       privatization, the development of
opportunities       options, including the use of the  identified options to           from Q4                        Ghanaian financial markets, the
created by          privatization trust.          facilitate                            1996                          development of the private sector in the
divestiture                                        diversification of                                                 country, and would mobilize local
ownership of                                                       investment resources.
I___________I__..              privatized  enterprises.                                      _



l                     I   Resp.         Target         Costs
|Main Objective        Project Component           Expected Output       Agency          Date        (US$'000)                    Benefits
Strengthen         Policy review.                 Quantification of      MESW,        Q3 1996                7.139  Strengthened and clarified framework for
management of                                     dimensions of affected  DIC                                       addressing labor issues would contribute
issue of labor     Development and                labor and associated                                              to the acceleration of privatization by
redundancies       implementation of labor        liabilities.                                                      enabling the Govemment to plan to meet
arising from       redundancy program.                                                                              redundancy costs; providing workers with
divestiture                                       Policy statement.                    Q4 1996                      greater confidence that obligations to them
will be met; and providing investors with
Action plan to put in               Q4 1996                       confidence that SOEs will be transferred
place new                                                         with a clean slate in a sound labor
institutional                                                     relations context.
framework.
Retraining (including tools) will reduce
Implementation,                     On-going                      hardship of redundancies and the
including retraining                from Q I                      economic costs of unemployment (initial
and redeployment                    1997                          rough estimates are that up to 40,000
scheme, building on                                               workers may be affected), increasing
the model successfully                                            productivity.
used in the cocoa
sector.
Tolal Cost of Privatization Program                                                     27,683
Coordination of the  Planning, review and         Establishment and      MOF           From Q2               1,176  The PCU would coordinate the
overall public      monitoring the work of the    administration of a                  1996                          implementation of a complex and wide-
enterprise reform   multiple agencies involved in    Project Coordination                                            ranging reform program which involves
and privatization   the overall program           Unit in the MOF.                                                   multiple agencies and coordinate
program                                                                                                              implementation of the project. It would
Monitoring and                                                    also provide feedback through regular
evaluation of program                                             monitoring and evaluation of the program
implementation.                                                   to ensure that the objectives are being met.
Total Cost of Program Coordination                                                       1,176
Total Project Cost                                                                      36,255
o r
c1
o%



Schedule 2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE AND PRIVATIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TRAINING PLAN
I.    The majority of the training to be supported under the project (US$ 6.7 million out of a
total of US$ 7.8 million) would be in support of the redeployment of workers made redundant as
a result of privatization. The detailed training plan for this component will be developed
following completion of the review of the Government's policy for addressing labor
redundancies in the public sector, and the preparation of estimates of the numbers of employees
likely to be affected and the associated costs. The periodic impact assessments of the program
will include a review of the effectiveness of training provided.
2.    The following principles have been adopted in determining the training to be provided to
implementing agencies under the proposed project:
(a)    The program has a finite life. DIC and the PCU are expected to be disbanded at the end
of the project, while SEC will have a much smaller role, consistent with the reduced role
of the state in commercial activities.
(b)    There is a strong focus in the project design on utilizing local private sector firms to
carry out tasks which have previously been carried out in-house by implementing
agencies. Examples of this are the outsourcing of divestiture by DIC, more extensive
use of external public relations consultants, and the use of private financial institutions to
assist with the management of the SOE loan and guarantee portfolio.
(c)    Nevertheless, it is important that the implementing agencies carry out their roles
effectively over the period, and thus appropriate job-focussed training of key personnel
is targetted to be supported under the project.
(d)    Training for individuals involving extended absence (more than 3 months) from duty
will not be supported
3.    The PCU will submit to IDA six monthly training plans, setting out details of proposed
training during the following six month period within each implementing agency, with details of
the individuals, training activity, relevance to work program and the project, timing, and cost.



Schedule 2
Page 2 of 2
4.     The training program for the implementing agencies is summarized in the following
table:
DIC                  377,000  Annual training for DIC professional personnel (approx. 10) in latest
trends and techniques in privatization. with appropriate mix of local
and foreign training
Ministry of Finance    348,000  Training associated with the establishment of portfolio management
capacity; for ADMU staff involved in management of loans and
__________________     guarantees: and for Project Coordinator
SEC                  421,000  Annual training of SEC professional personnel (approx. 8) in activities
related to SOE policy, trends, and monitoring techniques. Training for
managers of SOEs in transition to new governance structure associated
____________________with conversion to limited liability' companies.
Total              1,146,000 _____________________________



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
Public Enterprise and Priv'atization Technical Assistance Project
Summary of Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
All amounts in US$ equivalent
Estimates include physical and price contingencies and exclude taxes and duties
Costs                                             F inancing
Local      Foreign      Total          GOG          IDA         EDF         ODA         Total
Public Enterprise Reform Program
NManagement of the SOF Portfolio
- review of policy on SOIl sector                  140.269     459,547     599,816              0      599,816           0           0     599,816
- implementation of revised policy                 359.085     689.341    1,048,426             0    1,048,426           0           0    1.048,426
- monitoring. performance assessment and reporting  701,767    450,167    1,151,934             0    1,151,934           (           0    1.151,934
- supportl for the managemcnt of SOF debt          535.032     761,772    1,296,804         71.194    1.225,610         0            0    1,296,804
- sub-total                                      1,736,153    2,360,827   4.096,980         71,194    4,025,786          0           0   4,096,980
Preparation for privatization                      370,034          0      370,034              0      370,034           0           0     370,034
Framework strengthening and refonn of key sectors  764,677    1,815,851    2,580,528            0   2.580.528            0           0   2,580,528
Strengthening oi SEC capacity                      10)8.109    239,920     348,029              0      348.029           (           0     348,029
Total                                            2,978,973    4,416,598    7,395,571        71,194    7,324,377          0           0   7,395,571
Privatization Program
Ptihlic Information and Communications Strategy  1.607.802     853.052    2.460,854             0   2,460,854            0           0   2,460,854
Privatization of SOEs - outsourcing              4,5(07.005   8.147.995   12,655,000       201.261   12,453,739          0           0   12,655,000
Support for labor redundancies                     902,490   6.176,756    7,139,246             ()   1.569.372    5.569.874          0   7,139,246
Strcnghtcning l)IC capacity
- technical assistance                                  0   2.517.2()1   2,517,201              0      208,928           0   2,308,273    2,517,201
- consulting studics                               248,597     455.425     704,022              0      704,022           0           0     704,022
- taining                                           91,152     286,267     377,419              0      188,710           0     188,710     377,420
- vehicles and equipmeint                               0      234.140     234,140              0      140,484           0      93,656     234,140
operating costs                                1,595,166           0    1,595,166      1,367,284     227,881           0           0    1,595,165
- sub-total                                     I1,934,915    3,493,033    5,427,948     1,367,284    1,470,025          0   2,590,639    5,427,948
lotal                                            9,012,212   18.670,836  27,683,048      1,568,545   17,953,990   5,569,874   2,590,639  27,683,048
Program Coordination
Consulting sludies                                 151,920     119.278     271,198              0      271,198           0           0     271,198
Impact assessment                                  151,920     178,917     330,837              0      330,837           0           0     330,837
Vehicles and equipment                                  0       85,052      85,052              0       85,052           0           0      85,052
Training                                            18,990      44,729      63,719              0       63,719           0           0      63,719
Operating costs                                    425,378           0     425,378              0      425.378           0           0     425,378                               -
aotal                                             748,208     427,976    1,176,184              0    1,176,184          0            0    1,176,184                          
(;rand Total                                     12,739,393   23,515,410   36,254,803     1,639,739  26,454,551    5,569,874   2,590,639  36,254,803



Table 2
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE AND PRIVATIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Key Performance Indicators
Project          Performance                                                     Performance
Component            Indicator                Present Position                         Target
Public           Number and percentage   Total of around 334 SOEs in 1987   To be determined in Q4 1996 once
Enterprise       of each type of         of which around 100 have deen    SEC has prepared an udated SOE
Reform           enterprise, and number   divested. Split between various  data base and an updated classified
of conversions to       types of enterprises not known. 21  inventory.
limited liability      enterprises recently converted
companies.             from corporations to limited
l______________________  liabilitiy  companies.                                              l
Number and percentage   Most considered to be liable.    I 00% of SOEs to be liable to taxation
of SOl s liable to     although it is possible that some  by 1997.
taxation.              may not be.
I-evel of subventions  Direct subventions stated to be   Confirm that direct subventions are
from Government to     zero.                             zero, and continue at that level.
SOEs
Profitability of SOEs.    Monitored for 47 SOEs for which    (a) Results of SOEs to be
performance contracts exist.     aggregated, monitored and published,
Dividend payments to    However, results not aggregated.    commencing 1997.
l(ovt.                                                   (b) All SOEs to publish audited
accounts, commencing with 1996
accounts.
(c) Govt. to establish profitability
targets and dividend policy for SOEs
as part of portfolio management
l___________________    ______________________________    function   in  M OF, starting   1997.
Arrears on debt        Roughly 50% of a $1 billion loan    (a) Accounts and management
repaymnits to Govt     portfolio estimated by SEC to be    information systems on the portfolio
non-performing as at end 1994.   to be in place by ADMU by Q2 1997.
(b) Non-performing loans to be
written off or restructured by Q2
1997.
(c) Arrears on portfolio to be
recorded, publishhed and followed up
from Q3 1997.
New loans (including   Not applicable                    To be included in management of the
on-lending 1rom                                          overall portfolio of loans to SOEs
liovernment)                                             referred to above.
Liabilities of SOEs    Estimated by SEC to be $284       (a) Existing level of guarantees to be
guaranteed by( Govt.   million at end 1994               confirmed.
(b) System for monitoring and
enforcing to be developed as part of
portfolio management function.
System to include all government
loans and guarantees, not just those
to SOEs.
(c) More specific targets to be
l________                                      agreed by Q2 1997.



Table 2
Page 2 of 2
Project           Performance                                                        Performance
Component             Indicator                  Present Position                          Target
Audited accounts of      Presently monitored by SEC. but    (a) All SOEs to be required to
SOE's received by        aggregate statistics not available.    publish annual audit report.
Government within 6      Experience appears patchy.         commencing with 1996 accounts.
months of FY end.                                           (b) Aggregate statistics oll
perfobnance of the SOE sector to be
Percentage of audit                                         prepared by SEC annually. starting
reports qualified.                                          with 1995 accounts.
Employment levels       Not known                           To be monitored by SEC. No
specific target to be set. Will assist
in managing redundant labor program
} Privatization   Number of enterprises    Around 100 out of 334 SOEs have   (a) At least 48 of the 114 to be sold
divested (by small.      been divested. A further 114 have   by March 1997. of which at least 24
medium and large. and    been listed for sale. Government    should be mediumi sizc.
by mode of divestiture)   intends to continue with the      (b) At least 3 out of 4 named
program once the 114 have been     strategic enterprises to be offered for
sold.                              sale by March 1997.
(c) Remainder of' 1 14 expected te Le
sold by mid-term rvview (Q4 1998)
(d) Specific target fbr remainder of
enterprises, amounting to not less
than 75% of the remainder by value.
to be agreed during mid-term reviev.
No. of divestitures      Outsourcing only now getting       Expected to be in the range of 25 per
outsourced.              under way. Selection of first 15   annum over the life of the project.
has commenced. Procedures have    with over 75% of niedium- and large-
been adopted and publisb,d         sized being  dtsourced.
Net proceeds on          Existing accounting systems        (a) DIC's new accounting systems to
divestiture             inadequate to record this           be operational by Q4 1996.
information adequately.            (b) DIC to produce quarterly
Consultants have been appointed    financial and operational reports to
to design new accounting and       allow this area to be monitored.
information systems.               (c) Specific targets to be set for DIC
each year. commencing 1997.
Level of deferred        Existing accounting systems        (a) To be monitored using new
payments, and arrears    inadequate to record this          accounting systems.
arising under deferred    information adequately. Arrears    (b) Specific targets to be agreed by
payment arrangements    exist. but extent is unknown.       end 1996 once existing situation has
been quantilied.
Average time taken to    Not presently monitored            Specific target to be agreed by Q3
divest enterprises       Considered to be too long in       1997. and monitored thereafter.
general, with some transactions
taking several years. Outsourcing
is expected to improve the
situation.









IMAGING
Report No: -    6901  TH
Type: MOP



