Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2877 GH
                        Development Credit Agreement
     (Public Enterprise and Privatization Technical Assistance Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                    and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated June 24, 1996
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2877 GH
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1996, between the REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      WHEREAS:  (B)  the Association has received a letter dated April 29,
1996, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to implement the Borrower's public enterprise reform and
privatization program (hereinafter called the Program), and declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
      (C)   the Borrower has contracted from the Overseas Development
Administration (ODA) a grant (the ODA Grant) in an amount equivalent to
two million six hundred thousand dollars ($2,600,000) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the ODA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and ODA;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European Development
Fund (EDF) a grant (the EDF Grant) in an amount not exceeding five
million six hundred thousand dollars ($5,600,000) to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
EDF Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EDF; and
      WHEREAS, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association
has agreed, in support of the Program to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                    General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
            expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
            a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
            supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
            any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
            goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
            Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
      (b)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established within
MOF by the Borrower on May 1, 1996 for the purposes of coordinating the
implementation of the Project;
      (c)   "DIC" means the Divestiture Implementation Committee
established by the Borrower under its Provisional National Defence
Council Law Number 326 of 1993 for the purpose of carrying out the
divestiture of SOEs as hereinafter defined;
      (d)   "SEC" means the State Enterprises Commission established
by the Borrower under its Provisional National Defence Council Law
Number 170 of 1987 for the purpose of supervising the SOE sector;
      (e)   "SOE" means State-Owned Enterprise; and
      (f)   "Special Account" means each of the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE II
                               The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million two hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,200,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts (the MOF Special Account
for Parts A and C of the Project and the DIC Special Account for Part B
of the Project) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
Page  3
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the MOF Special
Account and the DIC Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30
immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be
set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate
set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the
currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies
as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15,
2006 and ending January 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 15, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant
1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may,
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the development
of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of
the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall
not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
Page  4
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association, and furnish to the Association not later
than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan
for the future operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on the said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                 (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                 Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                 with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                 applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                 Association;
            (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
                 in any case not later than four months after the end
                 of each such year, a certified copy of the report of
                 such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                 detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                 requested; and
           (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                 concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                 as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                 request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
Page  5
            (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                 paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                 reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                 received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                 the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment
                 out of the Special Account was made, all records
                 (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                 documents) evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                 records; and
            (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                 annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                 and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                 opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                 expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                 with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                 their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                 related withdrawals.
                                   ARTICLE V
                          Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out;
      (b)   Subject to paragraph (c) of this Section:
            (i)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any
                 loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing of
                 the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                 terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
                 the agreement providing therefor; or
            (ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to
                 the agreed maturity thereof.
      (c) Paragraph (b) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such
agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that the
event specified in Section 5.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement shall occur,
subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE VI
                       Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has appointed the Project accountant referred
to in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the Borrower has appointed auditors in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement to audit the
Project accounts; and
Page  6
      (c)   the Borrower has developed and installed a system satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Association for the maintenance of the
Project accounts.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
               Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Finance
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box M40
            Accra, Ghana
            Cable address:              Telex:
                 ECONOMICON             2205 MIFAEPGH
                 Accra
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:              Telex:
                 INDEVAS                248423 (RCA)
                 Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC)
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                        197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                       By /s/Ekwow Spio-Garbrah
                                             Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  7
                       By /s/Jean-Louis Sarbib
                                                Regional Vice President
                                                                 Africa
                               SCHEDULE 1
               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                               Credit              % of
                              Allocated         Expenditures
                            (Expressed in          to be
Category                   SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)  Consultants services                        100%
     for:
     (a) Parts A and C of      4,060,000
         the Project
     (b) Part B of the         9,460,000
         Project
(2)  Training under:                             100%
     (a) Parts A and C of        760,000
         the Project
     (b) Part B of the           120,000
         Project
(3)  Vehicles and equip-                         100% of foreign
     ment for:                                   expenditures and 90%
                                                 of local expenditures
     (a) Parts A and C of        150,000
         the Project
     (b) Part B of the           100,000
         Project
(4)  Operating costs under:                      95%
     (a) Parts A and C of        220,000
         the Project
     (b) Part B of the           160,000
         Project
(5)  Unallocated               3,170,000
                              __________
     TOTAL                    18,200,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c) the term "operating costs" means the incremental costs to PCU
and DIC incurred on account of Project implementation, management and
Page  8
monitoring, including fuel, office supplies, maintenance and operation
of office vehicles and equipment, telephone expenses and travel and
supervision costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's
civil service.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 1,380,000 may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
July 1, 1996.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a) goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (b) services
with consultants' firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent,
(c) expenditures for individual consultants under contracts not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent, and (d) training and operating costs, all under such
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to implement
the Program through broadening and sustaining public support for the
Program, promoting private sector participation in the Program and
strengthening the capacity of the Borrower's agencies in charge of
implementing the Program.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Public Enterprise Reform Program
1.   Strengthening the capacity of SEC to monitor and evaluate the
performance of SOEs through:
      (a)   development of a comprehensive SOE database;
      (b)   strengthening the operation of SEC's performance contract
system through the provision of technical advisory services and training;
and
      (c)   increasing the accountability of SOEs through dissemination
to the public of SEC's SOE sector reports.
2.   Carrying out a review of the Borrower's policies for the future
development of the SOE sector, including clarification of the Borrower's
role with respect to SOEs both before and after privatization and, where
appropriate, development and implementation of  new policies to facilitate
the development of the sector.
3.   Strengthening the capacity of MOF to manage the Borrower's portfolio
of equity investments, loans and guarantees through the provision of
technical financial advisory services.
4.   Preparation of selected SOEs for divestiture by SEC, including
preparation of company profiles and identification of issues to be
addressed prior to divestiture.
5.   Provision of technical assistance and staff training to SEC to enable
it to prepare company regulations in compliance with the Borrower's
Statutory Corporations Act of 1993 (Act 461), and to develop diagnostic
action plans for SOEs to facilitate their commercialization.
6.   Carrying out a review of the Borrower's policies for its aviation,
cocoa and petroleum sectors and, where appropriate, developing and
implementing new policies in order to achieve improvements in sector
performance and to encourage private sector participation.
Page  9
7.   Strengthening the capacity of SEC to manage the SOE reform program
through the provision of technical advisory services, the acquisition of
updated office equipment and staff training.
Part B:     Privatization
1.   Developing and implementing a communications strategy for DIC to
build and sustain public support and investor confidence in the
divestitures to be undertaken under the Program.
2.   Carrying out the divestiture of the Borrower's SOEs including
provision of professional advisory services to assist DIC to prepare
SOEs for sale and to negotiate such sales.
3.   Assisting the Borrower to manage labor redundancy issues arising
from the divestiture of SOEs through, among other things, (a) reviewing
the Borrower's policy for dealing with redundant labor, (b) implementing
a system for communicating with redundant workers; (c) improving the
administrative arrangements for managing redundancies; and (d)
implementing a retraining program for redundant employees.
4.   Installation by DIC of a comprehensive financial and operational
information management system.
5.   Strengthening the capacity of DIC to carry out the divestiture of
the Borrower's SOEs through the provision of technical advisory services,
the acquisition of vehicles and equipment, and staff training.
Part C:     Program Coordination
      Improving MOF's capacity to coordinate the implementation of the
Program through the provision of technical advisory services, the
acquisition of equipment and the training of staff involved in
implementing the Program.
                                  * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    Preference for domestically manufactured goods.
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of
the Borrower and procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be
Page  10
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association,
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more and for the first contract procured under Paragraph C.2
above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the
terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment
of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent
or above.
                              SCHEDULE 4
                       Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.    For the purposes of coordinating the implementation of the Project,
the Borrower shall maintain the PCU until the completion of the Project
Page  11
with competent staff in adequate numbers, including a Project Coordinator,
a Project Accountant and appropriate support staff.
Project Implementation
1.    The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project through SEC and
MOF in conjunction with the ministries responsible for the sectors of
operation of the relevant SOEs.
2.    The Borrower shall carry out Parts B.1, B.2, B.4 and B.5 of the
Project through DIC, in conjunction with the ministries responsible for
the sectors of operation of the relevant SOEs.
3.    The Borrower shall carry out Part B.3 of the Project through its
Ministry of Employment and Social Welfare (or through such other agency
or agencies as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association), in conjunction with DIC.
4.    The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Project through MOF.
5.    For the purposes of Parts A.1 (c) and B.1 of the Project, the
Borrower shall ensure that the following information, in a form and with
content acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, is made available
publicly:
      (a)   the annual report and audited annual accounts of DIC and SEC;
      (b)   the audited annual accounts of all SOEs, together with the
names of all SOEs not publishing such accounts within six months of their
financial year end;
      (c)    a report on the aggregate performance of the SOE sector; and
      (d)    a report on the performance of the Borrower's portfolio of
equity investments, loans and guarantees.
1.    For the purposes of Part B.3 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   furnish to the Association for its review and comments the
recommendations of the studies or reviews commissioned to determine its
policy for dealing with redundant workers; and
      (b)   implement such recommendations as shall have been agreed
between the Borrower and the Association on the basis of such studies and
reviews.
Project Monitoring
1.    Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in
accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof and
shall carry out such monitoring and evaluation in a manner satisfactory
to the Association.
2.    Without limitation upon its obligations under Sections 9.01 and
9.06 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association for its review and comments not later than October 31 in
each year during Project implementation, an updated annual implementation
plan for the Project, including updated performance targets.
Midterm Review
1.    The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, not
earlier than 21 months and not later than 27 months after the Effective
Date, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project
(referred to in this Section as the Midterm Review). The Midterm Review
shall cover, among other things:
      (a)   a review of the progress achieved in the implementation of
the Project;
Page  12
      (b)   an assessment of the impact of the Program and a discussion
of actions needed to mitigate any negative impacts; and
      (c)   an examination of the proposal to establish a revolving fund
using a portion of the proceeds of sale of SOEs to finance the
remuneration of the private firms contracted under Part B.2 of the Project
to prepare and negotiate the sale of SOEs.
1.    The Borrower shall, at least four weeks prior to the Mid-Term Review,
furnish to the Association:
      (a)   a report prepared under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to Paragraph 8 of this Schedule,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such
date; and
      (b)   a report describing the status of the items listed in
paragraph (a) above and of Project implementation generally.
1.    The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks after the Mid-Term
Review, prepare an action program, acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association and having regard to the findings of the Mid-Term Review,
for the further implementation of the Project; and  thereafter, implement
such action program.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means, in the case of the MOF
Special Account, Categories  (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) (a) and (4) (a); and,
in the case of the DIC Special Account, Categories (1) (b), (2) (b), (3)
(b) and (4) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $500,000 for the MOF Special Account, and an amount equivalent to
US$500,000 for the DIC Special Account, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $250,000 for each Special Account until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 3,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocations and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation for the Special
Page  13
Account for which the deposit is requested. On the basis of such request
or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account in question
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
                  into the Special Account at such intervals as the
                  Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                  this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
                  which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                  such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
                  into the respective Special Account such amount as the
                  Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                  shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special
Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account in question;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of
the respective Authorized Allocations.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the
Special Account in question shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in such Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures under such
categories.
6.    (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
Page  14
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit
into the Special Account in question (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into such Special Account shall be made until the Borrower
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
