Ducomat of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4198-NAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT OF
SDR 8.7 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 15, 1986
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS/EQUIVALENCES MONETAIRES
Currency Unit        -          Malagasy Francs (FMG)
US$1.00              =         FMG 700
FMG 1.00              =         US$0.14
(exchange rates prevailing at appraisal)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES/POIDS ET MESURES
1 hectare (ha)                       2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                     0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)             0.39 square mile
1 kilogram (kg)              =       2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                  =       0.26 US gallon
1 tonne (t)                  5       2,204 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
ASAC       Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
BTN        Bankin' Ny Tantsaha Mpamokatra
(Rural Development Bank of Madagascar)
CCCE       Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(French Development Fund)
EDF        European Development Fund
FAC        Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Government
Agency for Grant Aid)
FIDA       Fonds International pour le Developpement Agricole
(also IFAD)
FNDE       Fonds National de Developpement Economique (Investment
Fund)
FOFIFA     National Center for Applied Research on Rural
Development (also CENRADERU)
MPAEF      Ministere de la Production Animale et des Eaux et
For^ts (Ministry of livestock, Fisheries and Forestry)
MPARA      Ministere de la Production Agricole et de la Reforme
Agraire (Ministry of Agricultural Production and
Agrarian Reform)
MRSTD      Ministare de la Recherche Scientifique et
Technologique pour le D-veloppement (Ministry of
Scientific and Technological Research)
SAMANGOKY  Societe pour l'Amenagement et la Mise en Valeur de la
Vallee du Bas-Mangoky (Society for the Development of
the Lower Mangoky River Valley)
SODEMO     Socift6 de Developpement Economique pour la Region de
Morondava
GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATION
Fokontany                  =      village
Firaisam-pokontony         =      group of Fokontany
(or Firaisana)                    (former canton)
Fivondronam-pokontany      =      group of Firaisana
(or Fivondronana)                 (former sub-prefecture)
Faritany                   =      group of Fivondronana
(former province)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMFCIL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
SECOND AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Amount:                SDR 8.7 million (US$10 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms
Project Description:
(i) Objectives:   The project would continue the process of
institutional reform and development for the
agricultural sector which started under the
Agriqultural Institutions Technical Assistance
Projkt_feCr. 1249-MAG). Objectives are to improve
human and financial resource management of
agricultural institutions, strengthen financial
resource management, develop agricultural planning
and reinforce policy and economic analysis. The
project policy analysis and institutional
strengthening measures would support the Government's
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program; the two
operations are closely linked. The project would
also aim at improving the efficiency of agricultural
research as well as communications among researchers,
extension staff, and producers.
(ii) Components   The project includes strengthening programs for major
institutions responsible for agricultural policy and
services. These programs would consist of technical
assistance, short term consultancies, joint
Government-consultant policy reviews, training, study
tours, equipment and supplies. It would support
activities in the following areas:
MPARA:  sector policy analysis; public expenditure
analysis; studies; parastatal monitoring and
restructuring; personnel management; information
systems; extension system.
MPAEF:   sector policy analysis; public expenditure
analysis; personnel management; parastatal
monitoring; facilities management; information
systems.
MRSTD/F(FIFA: research planning and programming.
MRSTD: natural resources inventory; land use
analysis and monitoring.
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcia duties. Its contents maY not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Ministry of Finance: operation of an
interministerial Resource Management Task
Force and a Counterpart Funds Working Group.
(iii) Benefits:   The project would support a broad and far reaching
Government agricultural policy reform program.
Institutional development programs would strengthen
the performance of agricultural agencies, and notably
the management of public resources (human and
financial). Focus on areas with highest production
response potential would generate benefits from
increased returns on the agricultural investment
portfolio. An important benefit from improved
financtal resource management would also be a higher
level of confidence by investors and financing
agencies, and higher absorptive capacity. Benefits
to farmers would arise from the joint development and
increased relevance of agricultural research and
extension services in the form of more effective
support services leading to higher production and
revenues. Substantial benefits are expected from the
natural resources inventory in terms of an increased
capacity to respond to Madagascar's challenging
environmental characteristics.
(iv) Risks:       A short term risk is that consultants might be
inefficiently used due to poor timing and
insufficient support from Government officials.
Offsetting these risks are specific definitions of
program objectives and terms of reference for
assistance and provision for annual joint reviews.
The longer term risks relate to institutional
stability and the sustainability of reforms; past
efforts have been complicated by frequent
reorganizations and staff changes, as well as broader
problems stemming from poor civil service incentives
and training. These issues are to be addressed
through continuous dialogue at the project, sectoral
and country levels. The Government has recognized
the importance of an adequate organizational
environment for project implementation and
sustainability and will maintain a constant review of
those issues with Bank staff.



- iii -
Estimated Project Costs                    -   US$ Million
Components                              Local   Foreign  Total
MPARA                                         1.3      3.1      4.4
MPAEF                                         .8       1.7      2.5
MRSTD/FGFIFA                                   .6      1.1      1.7
MRSTD: natural resources inventory             .7      1.9      2.6
Ministry of Finance .                          .15      .05      .2
Baseline Project Costs                       3.6      7.8      11.4
Physical Contingencies                      .1      .1        .2
Price Contingencies                         .4      .8       1.2
Total Project Costs                          4.1      8.7      12.8
Financing Plan
Percentage
IDA                                          2.1      7.9      10.0      78
USAID                                         .1       .4        .5       4
Government                                   1.9       .4       2.3      18
TOTAL                                        4.1      8.7      12.8    100
Estimated Disbursements           -US$ Million (IDA FY)
1987     1988     1989     1990     1991
Annual                            1.0      2.8      3.2      2.4       0.6
Cumulative                        1.0      3.8      7.0      9.4      10.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Maps: IBRD 16924
IBRD 16925



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RFCC tEN ION CF THE PESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC g NADAGASCAR
FOR A SECOND * 1IULTURAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
IDA credit of SDR 8.7 million (US$10.0 million equivalent) to the
Dceocratic Republic of Madagascar on standard IDk terms to help finance a
Second Agricultural Institutions Development Project. Cofinancing for the
project will be provided by USAID (US$ 0.5 million).
PART I - TEM ECONOMI1/
2.       A report entitled Current Economic Situation and Prospects-
dated March 18, 1986, was distributed on March 24, 1986, to the Executive
Directors and to participants in the Madagascar Consultative Group. It is
available as document 5996-NAG and its main conclusions are reflected
below. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
3.       Madagascar, with a population of 9.7 million and a per capita
nrcome of about US$265 in 1984, is among the poorest countries in the
world. It is a sparsely settled country, with a population density of
about 17 persons per square kilometer. Although Madagascar is generally
weil endowed with natural resources and a variety of soils, there are
considerable regional variations in ecology and climate. The central
plateau, the most econo ically advanced region, has a subtropical to
temperate climate. The south is the poorest region with an arid climate
and infertile soils. The eastern region bas a tropical climate and,
although the region is rich agriculturally, crops are frequently devastated
by cyclones. The western part of the country comprises extensive
pastureland with some tropical agricultural production along the coast.
Agriculture continues to be the mainstay of Madagascar's economy, providing
Wnloyment for 88X of the population, creating two fifths of GDP and
generating over 801 of export earnings.
4.        In the decade following indiperdence in 1960, Madagascar's
economy grew at an average annual rate of about three percent. Agriculture
was responsible for much of this growth, while manufacturing, benefitting
from increased protection, gained in relative importance. The years
following 1972 marked a watershed in Madagascar's economic and political
development. After the 1972 and 1975 revolutions, an inward-looking
economic policy was geared to self-sufficiency and consolidation of the new
regime's socialist aims through decentralization to new local government
institutions (the fokonolona system), nationalization of industrial,
trading, and agricultural enterprises, and moves towards collectivization
of agriculture. Towards the end of the 1970s this movement was overlaid by
a policy of rapid industrialization with emphasis on capital intensity,
accompanied by pricing and marketing policies heavily biased towards urban
consumers.
1/ This section is essentially the same as Part I of the President's
Report on the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation.



-2-
5.          During the decade 1973-82 real per capita GDP fell by an
estimated 28 percent. The major contributing factors to this decline were:
(i) The widespread nationalization of economic activity and suppression of
private initiative, accomplished by taking over numerous enterprises and
creating new parastatals, gave rise to a large and unmanageable public
sector. (ii) Regulatory intervention in the economy increased
substantially; price controls were generalized and enforced with greater
vigor than before, local authorities assumed broad new powers, government
marketing monopolies were established, and import restrictions and exchange
controls tightened. (iii) Many policy actions led to neglect of agriculture
and fostered the growth of manufacturing for domestic markets, including
the establishment of numerous enterprises of doubtful economic value.
6.        The Government's attempts in the late 1970s to stimulate
expansion of Madagascar's stagnating economy through a large public
investment program contributed to an economic crisis beginning in 1980-81.
The share of investment in GDP, which had averaged around 13 percent from
1970 to 1978, increased sharply to 25 percent in 1979-81. The financing of
this massive investment program contributed to a large public sector
deficit (about 18 percent of GDP by 1980), inflation in excess of 30
percent both in 1981 and 1982, and a sharply increased debt service burden
(the debt service ratio,before rescheduling, rose sharply from about four
percent of export earnings in 1978 to 46 percent in 1981, nearly 75 percent
in 1984, and 90 percent in 1985). The debt service burden has been largely
responsible for the severe shortage of foreign exchange which has been a
critical constraint to economic activity. Contributing to this shortage
was a drop in export earnings as the terms of trade for agricultural
exports weakened and as domestic consumption expanded. This drop was
accentuated by declining agricultural production due to an overvalued
exchange rate, low controlled producer prices, and state interference with
the marketing of agricultural products. Industrial exports, which had
never been encouraged, suffered a further blow through the impact of the
foreign exchange shortage on the availability of raw materials and spare
parts.
7.        Faced with an unsustainable resource gap (equivalent to 17% of
GDP in 1980), Government began implementing stabilization measures in
1981. In the years which followed, aggregate expenditure was steadily
reduced and gross savings increased, especially from 1983. Among specific
measures taken to reduce aggregate demand, the most notable actions were on
the exchange rate and on consumer subsidies. In nominal terms, the average
rate of the FMG vis-A-vis the SDR depreciated by about 75% during 1982-85,
and after adjustment for domestic and trading-partner inflation the real
depreciation of the FMG approximated 25Z. The Government more than doubled
the nominal price of rice distributed through official channels; consumer
subsidies on imported rice were eliminated. Madagascar's stabilization
also included tax measures, expenditure cuts, increases in price of public
enterprise goods and services and sharply curtailed imports. In addition
to fiscal restraint, tight bank credit ceilings were employed to reduce
inflation.



-3-
8.        Between 1980 and 1985, agricultural output tended to fluctuate.
Production of paddy, a staple item, remained at around 2 million metric
tons per year. Madagascar had to continue importing rice throughout the
period, although the volume imported declined steadily from a peak 356,000
metric tons in 1982 to about 105,000 metric tons in 1985. The decline in
rice imports, however, was due to foreign exchange scarcity rather than any
marked increase in domestic self-sufficiency. Production of other food
crops (maize, potatoes, cassava, sweet potatoes) grew steadily and
significantly, possibly owing to higher demand - and hence production
stimulus - for these crops as a result of increased rice prices. With the
exception of cotton and sugar cane, the production of industrial and export
crops generally stagnated (e.g., tobacco, coffee, pepper) or declined
(e.g., groundnuts, butter beans). The output of two other principal export
crops, vanilla and cloves, was restrained by the administration of low
producer prices in the face of limited world market demand for these
products.
9.        The output of the industrial sector declined sharply between 1980
and 1982, and again in 1984; modest growth obtained in 1983 and 1985 did
not make up for the decline in the other years. Industrial manufacturing
capacity has been heavily underutilized in recent years owing to shortages
of domestically supplied agricultural raw materials, and of imported inputs
and spare parts. The construction industry also remained slack, judging
from data on gross fixed capital formation. Between 1980 and 1982, all
types of construction - residential, non-residential and other - declined
heavily. In the following years, residential and other construction grew a
little, but the volume of activity was constrained by continuing restraint
in investment expenditures and shortages of construction materials.
10.       On the policy front, Government initiated positive changes in
industry, easing pricing controls, improving the administration of foreign
exchange allocation, and, as recently as June 1985, legislating a new
Investment Code. The new Code provides clearer and more automatic
incentives and aims to attract foreign private investment. Here again, the
recent initiatives need to be strengthened by extending the export earnings
scheme (the EPI account) to a greater number of bona fide exporters,
rationalizing the tariff system, and quickly completing the practical rules
and regulations of the new Investment Code.
11.      Owing to the slow growth of agriculture and industry, the
transport sector bad less merchandise and fewer passengers to carry
throughout 1980-85 although, within the period, there was some upturn in
road and rail traffic in 1983 and 1984. The little traffic that was
required had to be carried at high cost given the dilapidated state of the
transport system. Until recently, however, costs could not be covered as
the administered tariffs were set too low, thus further discouraging the
provision of services. To improve the transport system and policy
environment Government selected an -economic network' of about 10,000 kms
of primary and secondary roads for priority rehabilitation; established a
road fund for maintenance; and permitted tariff increases for the roads,
railways, and the national airline.



-4-
12.       Public Finance. During the 1978-80 period, the country
experienced an unprecedented growth in public capital expenditures financed
by external loans, leading to substantial budget deficits and accumulation
of indebtedness and arrears. Successive adjustment measures adopted
between 1981 and 1985 progressively reduced the magnitude of the deficit
and domestic arrears. The bulk of the fiscal adjustment has been
accomplished by cutting expenditures, with a lower investment level,
contained payroll expansion, and a reduction in materials and supplies used
for government activity. The current budget balance turned positive in
1983 and remained so during 1984 and 1985. The size of the current
surplus, however, remained small relative to the need to increase public
savings. The overall deficit declined from 18.41 of GDP in 1980 to 8.7Z in
1982 and 4.8Z in 1984. It was estimated at approximately 4.7Z of GDP in
1985.
13.       Revenue.  Total revenue declined from 17.91 of GDP in 1980 to
15.7Z in 1985. The tax structure was altered frequently with yearly changes
in the tax rate system. The tendency was to increase tax rates on income
and imports, without visible results on effective tax revenue, this being
partly due to unsatisfactory tax administration, partly to increased tax
avoidance, and partly to reduced imports. Extrabudgetary revenues
represented a growing share of total government revenue, with surplus from
export stabilization funds yielding the main contribution in this
category.
14.       Expenditure.  Improvement in fiscal performance was mostly the
result of tight control of expenditures. Between 1980 and 1985, central
government expenditures increased by only 26%, representing a substantial
decline in real terms. The ratio of expenditures to GDP over the period
declined steadily from 36.3% in 1980 to 20.4Z in 1985. The main factor in
this decline was cutbacks in capital expenditures from the unsustainable
level of 1980. In real terms, capital expenditures declined by 15Z per
year during 1980-85.
15.       Monetary developments during 1980-85 were generally in line with
fiscal developments, reflecting implementation of stabilization measures.
Throughout the period, the growth of credit to Government was reduced, and,
beginning in 1982, credit to the non-government (i.e., parastatal and
private) sectors generally expanded faster than credit to the Government.
16.       Domestic inflation in Madagascar was reduced considerably after
1982, from about 301 in 1981 and 1982 to approximately 10 percent in 1985.
This performance was due mainly to demand management measures during the
period, and to some decline in foreign prices of Madagascar's imports. The
reduction of inflation during the period was all the more remarkable in
that it occurred at a time when the Malagasy Franc was depreciating.
Madagascar's balance of payments remained weak throughout 1980 despite
substantial annual reductions in the volume of imports to the point of
adversely affecting economic activities. To a large extent, the
position remained weak owing to poor export performance and heavy debt
service payments, the latter a legacy of large borrowings on hard terms
during 1978-80.



-5-
17.       Stabilization efforts throughout the period led to steady and
marked improvements in the resource and current balances. In dollar terms,
the resource gap in 1985 ($102 million) was less than 20Z of what it was in
1980 (US$557 million); and the current account deficit in 1985 (US$237
million) less than 40Z of what it was in 1980 (US$599 million).
18.       Based on the existing debt portfolio at end 1985 and after taking
into account pipeline disbursements, Madagascar will need new net capital
inflows of about US$380 million per year during the 1986-90 period to cover
current account deficits, meet scheduled debt repayments, and maintain a
modest amount of gross reserves. The conditions at which Madagascar is
able to obtain new finance and reschedule the debt are of crucial
importance and will determine if the country is able to emerge from its
low-level trap, even with a high quality policy program.
19.       Since the emergence of the debt crisis at the beginning of the
1980s, Madagascar has managed the balance of payments by cutting imports
and rescheduling debt service payments. These are very costly options,
involving disruption of economic activities and refinancing of some
originally concessional loans at less concessional terms. Madagascar now
has probably reached a limit to further cuts in imports as these are down
to bare essentials. As to debt rescheduling, the country's creditors may
continue to accord such arrangements to Madagascar. But, to generate
significant amounts of annual debt relief, the rescheduling arrangements
would need to provide more and more liberal coverage. Even then, however,
debt rescheduling involves significant direct costs, depending on the terms
of repayment agreed upon. In the future, therefore, Madagascar must
attempt to boost export earnings as a means of strengthening the balance of
payments and reducing the debt burden.
20.       Relationship with I1F.  As of September 1985, the Government had
complied with all performance criteria set in the fifth standby agreement
signed in April 1985. Most of the important program targets have been
achieved and all scheduled purchases have been effected. In the second
review of the current standby, the Government decided to accelerate the
depreciation of the exchange rate and agreed to continue this process under
the sixth standby agreement. An DV mission visited Madagascar in March
1986 to negotiate a program supported by a sixth standby arrangement, but
unfortunately negotiations could not be completed since a major cyclone
affected Madagascar and the impact of the damage could not be assessed
immediately. A new mission is scheduled for June 1986.
21.       The third meeting of the Consultative Group for Madagascar took
place on April 25 and 26, 1986. The meeting agreed that the Government's
program of policy reforms was on the right path and it was urgent that it
be pursued and developed further. It was recognized that if Government's
efforts are to succeed, Madagascar needs substantial external support.
This would be provided by a combination of higher official development
assistance, paiticularly in the form of quick disbursing aid, and debt
rescheduling. A meeting of the Paris Club is scheduled for September 1986.



-6-
PART II  -  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NADAGASCAR
The Existing Portfolio
22.       Overall Lending Levels and Sectoral Composition.  IDA credits to
Madagascar amount to US$522.9 million (including US$29.9 million from the
Special Fund) and Bank loans total US$32.6 million. Bank Group assistance
to Nadagascar has been conctntrated on infrastructure (including urban and
social infrastructure), agriculture and energy. Since the start of Bank
Group involvement in Madagascar, about 32Z of Bank Group lending has been
for transport, 27% for agriculture, 12% for industry, 12% for power and
petroleum, 7% for education, 6% for urban development and water, 3Z for
cyclone rehabilitation, and 1X for technical assistance. IFC has four
investments in .4adagascar in textiles, footwear, and fisheries. Annex II
contains a summary statement of past loans and IDA credits as of March 31,
1986.
23.       Agricultural Lending. The Bank has supported 14 agricultural
projects, of which five have been completed and nine are under execution.
This has included three livestock development, four irrigation and two
forestry projects, and one for each of agriculture credit, rice
intensification and cotton development. Between 1972-79, several projects
faced severe problems as a. consequence of Government policy during that
nationalist revolutionary period. As a result, no new agricultural
projects were approved between 1975 and 1979 and virtually no formal sector
work proved feasible.
24.       Recent credits for the Lac Alaotra (Cr. 1337-MAG) and Cotton
(Cr. 1433-MAG) Projects (both cofinanced by the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique) focus upon restoring rice and cotton production. A
Second Village Livestock Project (Cr. 1211-MAG) supports development of
livestock services for traditional producers and provides for sector-wide
policy reviews. A credit for Irrigation Rehabilitation (Cr. 1249-MAG),
cofinanced by the Caisse Centrale and the ELF, is assisting with
rehabilitation of smaller irrigation networks, subsequent maintenance, and
strengthening of government services in this sector. The Agricultural
Institutions Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1249-MAG) addresses sector
policy and institutional issues.
25.       Infrastructure Lending. Four credits have provided for the
construction of all-weather highway links between the island's different
regions and three credits have been made for road maintenance and
rehabilitation. There have been credits to improve Madagascar's main port
of Toamasina and to support the railways modernization efforts. Urban
infrastructure development has benefitted from a water supply and
sanitation credit for the capital city of Antananarivo. In addition,
studies for urban development financed by the UNDP with the Bank as
Executing Agency led to approval of an urban development credit (US$12.8
million in FY84). A US$15 million credit for cyclone damage rehabilitation
was made in 1984. Energy projects have received growing Bank Group
attention. IDA participated with several co-lenders in the financing of
the large Andekaleka hydroelectric project, which was successfully



-7-
completed in June 1982. Two credits (for US$12.5 million and SDR 10.7
million) for petroleum exploration support the Government's efforts to
develop a domestic supply of hydrocarbons and to improve planning in the
energy sector. In both projects the technical components have proceeded
well but energy planning remains weak. Over US$250 million in exploration
development by foreign oil companies has been generated by promotion under
one of the projects.
26.       Other lending.  A first US$ 5 million DFC credit was made to the
Industrial Development Bank of Madagascar (BNI) in 1980. A follow-up US$
40 million, became effective in August 1985. In addition, a credit for an
accounting and audit project was signed in June 1981 and a new credit for
training auditors, accountants and managers was signed in April 1986.
27.       Implementation Problems. Problems have arisen in the execution
of a number of projects, mainly delays, cost overruns, deficiencies in
management and inadequate financial performance of project agencies.
Current problems center on difficulties linked to the country's economic
crisis, notably the acute shortage of foreign exchange and budget funds and
institutional problems related principally to the parastatal system. The
Bank approach has been to maintain supervision and to address the generic
problems through every instrument available, from the Consultative Group
through the Country Implementation Review (the most recent was June 1985)
including the macroeconomic, sectoral and project-level dialogue, technical
assistance and staff secondment. The Government has been responsive and
there have been significant improvements in Government portfolio management
and a reduction in implementation problems.
28.       Project Evaluation.  Since the start of the Bank program in
Madagascar, eight projects have been completed and audited by the
Operations Evaluation Department. The Audit Report No. 1622 of December
1976 on the first Lac Alaotra project concluded that the project was
generally successful. However, the Impact Evaluation Report No. 3600 of
August 1981 concluded that earlier assessments of project performance had
been over-optimistic, and that the actual rate of return was probably
negative. The Audit Report No. 1143 of April 1976 of the first education
project concluded that the education and manpower training objectives were
satisfactorily achieved. The Audit Report No. 5434 of January 29, 1984 of
the first Railway Project concluded that due to overruns and delays in
implementation, the project had to be downscaled and that the estimated
rate of return was less than 10%. The Audit Report No. 1559 of April 1977
on the Beef Cattle Development Project concluded that the project had
contributed little to Madagascar.  The Audit Report No. 2143 of July 1978
concluded that the Third Highway project was well justified and had a
satisfactory rate of return despite substantial cost overruns. Report No.
2299 of December 1978 concluded that the physical objectives of the
Taaatave Port project were satisfactorily achieved but pointed out that the
institutional objective was not accomplished during project implementation
because of inadequacies in the staffing of the port authority. Audit
Report No. 5403 of December 28, 1984 covered two agricultural projects: the
Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project was a profoundly
disappointing operation, but tbh Village Livestock and Rural Development



-8-
Project contributed to laying the groundwork for more effective services
for traditional livestock owners, with good prospects for sustainability.
29.       Bank Strategy and Future Program.  The Bank strategy is to
support the Government's efforts to rehabilitate and restructure the
economy by:
(a)    promoting policies and programs aimed at reforming incentive
structures, increasing market-responsiveness, setting a more favorable
climate for private sector initiative and investments, and providing
financial and other support for appropriaLe policy programs;
(b)    supporting adoption of viable sectoral strategies aimed at
rehabilitating productive and economic infrastructure and establishing
conditions for long-term growth, and providing financial and technical
assistance to implement these programs;
(c)    strengthening the institutions responsible for macro and
sectoral economic and financial policy formulation and management; and
Cd)    helping Madagascar mobilize donor aid and to make effective use
of donor financial, technical, and debt relief support.
30.      Lending Program Development. On the assumption of continued
Government responsiveness, the Bank is supporting Government adjustment
efforts by emphasizing policy-based lending as the main vehicle of Bank
financial assistance. Additional sector policy-based operations in
agriculture and industry would be prepared. These would support continued
market deregulation, export promotion, cost recovery, private investments,
case-by-case parastatal rehabilitation of productive and economic assets,
and would address longer-term issues in human resource development, health,
agricultural research, and environmental degradation. Overall, future
lending would concentrate on agriculture, industry, and transport.
31.      Aside from sector and project-level efforts, the main vehicle for
aid coordination has been the Consultative Group. Making the Consultative
Group a more effective means of addressing Madagascar's economic problems
is an important part of Bank country assistance strategy. This would
contribute to resolution of the country's external financial problems.
Donor and creditor support of a comprehensive financing strategy, combined
with a sound Government program to stimulate real growth, offers the best
prospects for future development. This implies active participation by the
Government and the IMF in the preparation of Consultative Group meetings,
and Bank focus on longer-term structural adjustment issues.
32.      Other Support.   In addition to a substantial economic and sector
work program, the Bank is supporting the Government in policy analysis and
selected institution-building through technical assistance. Further, two
secondment positions have been approved, and the Bank's Resident mission
has been augmented by a resident economist. SPFF resources have and will
continue to be used to provide technical support for future policy studies,
as well as to help strengthen investment planning, programming and
budgeting.



-9-
PART III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
33.       Sector Profile.  Madagascar's dominant economic sector,
agriculture employs 88 percent of the population and accounts for over 40
percent of GDP and 80 percent of export earnings. The share of agriculture
in GDP increased during the 1960s and 1970s, up from 33 percent in 1960 to
almost 38 percent in 1980. Over half of agricultural production by value
is for subsistence, predominantly paddy (30 percent) and beef (16
percent). Coffee, cloves and vanilla represent about 15 percent of
production and about three-quarters-of merchandise exports. Industrial
crops, notably sugar and cotton, account for about 7 percent of
agricultural production. About 80 percent of total production comes from
smallholder activity (in the 1 to 2 ha. range).
34.       Recent Performance.  In spite of very favorable factor
endowment, including irrigation of about one third of cultivated land, the
agricultural sector's performance over the past six years has been highly
deficient, impinging upon growth of the economy. Between 1979 and 1983,
overall agricultural production was static, in contrast to the strong
growth trend of the 1960s and early 1970s.  Notwithstanding ste-ady growth
of the labor force, production of the two basic foodstuffs (rice and beef)
and the major export crops stagnated. The balance of payments impact of
these developments has been particularly serious.   A net exporter of rice
until the mid-1970s, Madagascar's subsequent imports of rice and edible
oils consumed an increasing share of foreign exchange earnings, peaking at
21 percent of total export receipts in 1982. The supply of raw materials
to a predominantly agriculture-based industrial sector has also dropped.
35.       Sector Issues. The causes of this disappointing performance
include both structural and short term factors. Principal structural
factors are expanded public sector control over key services and economic
functions, weak public sector institutions, inadequate resource allocation
and financial management systems, and poorly defined strategies for public
sector interventions in agriculture. The Government's far reaching control
of the agricultural economy included setting prices and margins and a
marketing monopoly which covered virtually all agricultural and livestock
products by 1977. The contribution to economic activity of larger farmers
and private sector marketing and processing networks has been discouraged
for over a decade. Yet the Government's capacity to substitute state or
parastatal operations for the private sector has been weak and the effort
costly. Even in the classic services commonly provided by government,
performance has been poor. In addition to institutional and policy
factors, the economic crisis which hit the country In 1979-80 and the
subsequent world recession have resulted in severe shortages of local
budgetary funds and foreign currency for agricultural operations. The



-10-
consequences of these converging trends have included the breakdown of
essential services to farmers in many rural areas, limited availability of
production inputs, and inadequate incentives for increasing output.
36.       Government Objectives and Strategy.  In response to these
problems, at the 1983 Consultative Group Meeting for Madagascar, the
Government set out the broad outlines of a restructuring program aimed at
increasing food production and reducing imports. A second objective was to
increase the production of export crops while at the same time improving
their quality. Consistent with these goals, the following policy
priorities were set forth:
(a) promotion of private, smallholder production, and de-emphasis of
parastatals and collective production;
(b) concentration of investment in rehabilitation;
(c) reliance on market prices;
(d) withdrawal of the agricultural ministries and parastatals from
direct-production and commercial activities; and
(e) improvement of essential public sector services.
37.       The First Phase of the Adjustment Process.  Over the past four
years, the Government has made some progress in implementing this
strategy. Agricultural pricing and marketing controls have been eased on
rice, meat, pulses, and groundnuts; prices for cotton and selected export
crops have been significantly increased. On resource management, the
Gover-nment has undertaken a public investment program for the sector which
led to some redirection of scarce resources but still retained a dominant
share of direct production-oriented investments. The Government has begun
to redress the bias against the private sector by easing administrative
controls, adopting a more favorable investment code and allowing them more
access to credit and foreign exchange. Selected parastatals are being
subjected to profitability tests and restructured to attain
self-financing. The Government is reactivating key farmer services
(notably extension and research) while starting to withdraw from direct
production and commercial activities which are best performed by the
commercial sector. The two major agricultural ministries, the Ministry of
Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform (MPARA) and the Ministry of
Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry (MPAEF) have been reorganized, and large
personnel reductions effected. Important policy measures remain to be
taken in the rice subsector, resource allocation, farmer and market
incentives, and farmer services. These are being addressed under the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit.
Agricultural Sector Institutions
38.       Numerous institutions have a significant impact on agricultural
development. The institutional complexity and fragmentation of
responsibility constitute a basic constraint to effective policy



-11-
formulation and implementation. The major institutions with important
responsibilities in the agricultural sector include: the Ministry of
Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform (MPARA), the Ministry of
Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry (MPAEF), the Ministry of Commerce (MC),
the Ministry of Scientific and Technological Research (MRSTD), the National
Agricultural Research Institute (FOFIFA), and the Rural Development Bank
(BTM). Numerous agricultural parastatals have been created by the
Government and perform a wide variety of functions ranging from producer
services to agro-industrial processing.
39.       MPARA covers the cultivated crop subsectors (food, industrial,
and export crops). Its role and organizational structure have been
modified frequently over the past 25 years. The ministry was seriously
weakened during the 1970's, notably following a far-reaching 1979
decentralization that worked so poorly it had to be reversed. Since 1983,
MPARA has been responsible for: (i) formulating and executing policies
related to agricultural production and rural infrastructure; (ii) carrying
out agrarian reform policy; and (iii) monitoring the performance of certain
agricultural parastatals and providing assistance to them. Institutional
priorities for MPARA have focused on developing the basic information and
management tools necessary for sound management and planning. Issues
increasingly coming to the fore are more far-reaching: How should the
ministry operate to stimulate agricultural production? What should be its
role and general priorities? What are the internal linkages between
departments and the division of labor in carrying out broad tasks? How can
the ministry assure internal coordination and integrated action? On the
financial side, ministry staff are grappling with the imbalance between
operating expenses and personnel costs and the need to bring these into
line so that the ministry can play an effective role within available
resources. The need to target investment funds on productive activities is
also of primary concern as millions have gone into the investment program
with little evident impact on production levels. Proposed project
activities would assist EPARA in addressing these issues by improving the
data base for decision making and increasing the managerial and technical
competencies of key staff.
40.       MPAE' is a new ministry, created in July 1983 to give greater
attention to the livestock, fishery, and forestry subsectors. Its mandate
is to formulate and execute Government policies in these subsectors. It is
also to monitor the performance of the relevant parastatals operating in
these subsectors and to provide them with technical assistance. MPAEF's
institutional development priorities have been quite similar to MPARA's,
with the ministry experiencing the same need to master its information
base, to clarify its role, to balance recurrent expenditures, and to
develop a productive investment portfolio. However, its recent creation
has magnified the importance of issues concerning role, strategy, internal
organization, and operating procedures. Proposed project activities will
support the ministry in pursuing this process of institutional
strengthening and reform.
41.       The Ministry of Scientific and Technological Research (MRSTD) was
created in October 1983, as the Government sought to ensure that research
was integrated into a coherent program geared to national priorities,
emphasizing in particular agriculture and rural development. MRSTD



-12-
supervises six autonomous research units including FCFIFA, the agricultural
research institute. The operational effectiveness of these units has
deteriorated sharply over the past five years, with funding levels
inadequate to cover expenditures, and salary and pay scales too low to
attract and retain qualified staff. Further, linkages among research
programs and disciplines are poor. Past research results are frequently
unknown due to the disappearance of documentation. MRSTD is addressing
these issues, giving particular attention to setting priorities, developing
a planning framework, identifying recurrent funding mechanisms, and
analyzing manpower planning and training needs. The ministry is also
working, with donor assistance, on pulling together past Malagasy research
documentation and relevant international research results to provide the
local research institutes with a comprehensive information base. FOL IFA
was created in 1974 by consolidating seven French-sponsored research
institutes into a single agricultural research center. FoFIFA's internal
structure has changed frequently over the past ten years, with a
progressive decline in management capability. In late 1983, the Government
took steps to strengthen F(FIFA's management and to reverse this decline.
These steps were supported under the Agricultural Institutions Technical
Assistance Project. The critical issues facing agricultural research in
Madagascar include: (a) excess lower level staff and insufficient research
staff with adequate education; (b) insufficient and uncertain funding of
research operation costs; (c) too many research programs in comparison to
the number of staff and available funds; (d) too many research stations;
and (e) inadequate research prioritization. FOFIFA and MRSTD have been
addressing these issues, with particular emphasis on sound financial
management and research programming. Proposed project activities would
provide continued support for these efforts.
The Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1249-MAG)
42.       The Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project (Cr.
1249-MAG) was a product of the policy reassessment which began in 1981/82.
Project objectives were to assist Government in addressing critical
institutional constraints, such as weak sector planning, poor parastatal
management, and ineffective ministry and agricultural research services.
Particular emphasis was given to rice subsector issues. The project was
conceived as a first step (two and a half year implementation period) in a
longer term program of institutional development. Project activities were
grouped in three major areas: (a) Strengthening sectoral planning:
preparation of a three-year investment plan, project preparation studies,
preparation of a short-term action plan for the rice subsector, support to
a rice coordination unit; (b) Improving parastatal management: financial
and management audits for three critical rice irrigation authorities, pre-
paration and implementation of management reform programs for these com-
panies, studies of rice marketing and distribution systems, audits and
training activities for other agricultural parastatals; and (c)
Reorganizing and strengthening critical producer services: organizational
analysis and implementation of reform programs for MPARA and the national
agricultural research institute (FCFIFA). Project activities were designed
to identify options for reform and to help build consensus for future
action through local staff participation in the anAlytical process. The
project was appraised in July 1981, approved in May 1982, and the credit
became effective in December 1982.



-13-
43.       Project implementation started in August 1981, with Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) financing. Most project activities were
completed by the end of 1985; two management assistance contracts for
FCFIFA and SODEHO (an irrigation parastatal) will continue through early
1987, and the Credit closing date was extended to permit completion of
these components. Slippage in the implementation schedule was essentially
the result of administrative delays, particularly in approving major
technical assistance contracts. Actual project costs are estimated at
about US$6.5 million (97 percent of appraisal estimates). Some changes in
emphasis have occurred during implementation. The complexity of evaluating
the agricultural public investment program (PIP) was underestimated at
appraisal. The Government concluded (largely as a result of the PIP
exercise) that the key need was to streamline the portfolio and emphasize
rehabilitation. The split of the Ministry of Agriculture into two, MPARA
for food production ard MPAEF for animal, fish and forestry production,
mid-way through implermentation changed project plans, entailing a
significant increase in demands for organization and management assistance
and disruptions in programs along the way. Lastly, programmed expenditures
for assistance to the irrigation parastatals and to FGFIFA were only
partially used, as several planned activities were undertaken under
on-going projects (for example Cr. 1337-MAG, Cr. 881-MAG) or financed by
other organizations.
44.       The impact of the project varied among activities.  The rice
sector analysis has had a widely felt impact, as it led to the Government's
decision to liberalize the rice trade and to relax pricing regulations.
Perhaps the most complex undertaking attempted, and the area where the most
remains to be accomplished, has been the support to MPARA and MPAEF for
reorganization and management strengthening activities. Sectoral planning
and programming are already substantially stronger than they were in 1981,
and significant restructuring of programs is underway at MPARA and MPAEF.
The comprehensive assessment of FCFIFA, carried out by the International
Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR), led to decisions to
change the management structure, to reorient research programs, and to
strengthen financial management. Assistance on agricultural extension
issues and a training program for parastatal managers are paving the way
for future reform. Considerable information has been collected, management
information systems have been designed, and staff training has begun; these
activities constitute the building blocks for future institutional
deve'lopment programs.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
45.       Background.  The proposed project follows directly from the
Agricultural Institutions Technlcal Assistance Project (paras 42-44), and
is designed to consolidate progress achieved and expand into new areas
meriting action and assistance. The project was prepared in late 1984 and
early 1985. It was appraised in May-June 1985, with appraisal work
completed in September 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington D.C. in
March 1986; the Malagasy delegation was led by Mr. Rabesa-Zafera, Minister
of Scientific and Technological Research.



-14-
46.       Project Objectives and Results.  The proposed project represents
the second phase of a long-term institutional reform and development effort
in the agricultural sector. It would support the implementation of the
agricultural reform program which is underway within the framework of the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC). It would specifically
support the ASAC by improving resource allocation processes, financing an
export study and providing a more effective extension service which would
allow farmers to respond efficiently to marketing incentives. The proposed
project would assist the Government to sharpen and implement its
agricultural strategy. Project objectives can be classified in four broad
categories:
(a): management improvement of agricultural institutions
- implementation of a new personnel management system
and internal training program within MPAEF and MPARA;
- definition and implementation of a commmnication network
between central and provincial units of MPARA and MPAEF to
improve coordination and data transmission;
- staff development within Economic Analysis units of MPAEF
and MPARA.
(b): financial resource management
- implementation of program budgeting within MPARA,
MPAEF and FOFIFA;
- completion of the financial monitoring systems started
under the first project and expansion to cover all
financial flows within MPARA and MPAEF;
- definition and implementation of a parastatal monitoring
system for MPARA and MPAEF extending beyond the
case-by-case studies executed under the first project;
- creation of coordinating mechanisms for financial resource
management between agricultural sector ministries and the
Ministry of Finance.
(c): agricultural sector planning
- preparation of subsector studies supporting strategy
definition for export crops, food crops and fertilizer;
- preparation of an agricultural extension master plan and
initial implementation program to increase effectiveness
of the extension system;
- preparation of an agricultural research master plan and
first five-year implementation plan;
- completion of a natural resources inventory including soil
and water resources maps and a land use map;
- creation of an interministerial structure to execute
permanent natural resources inventory activities to
support agricultural planning.
(d): policy and economic analysis
- completion of sub-sector database and studies supporting
reinforcement of rice policy analysis.
47.       The proposed project comprises independent programs to be
implemented by major institutions which have a critical impact on
agricultural sector development: (i) the Ministry of Agriculture and



-15-
Agrarian Reform (MPARA); (ii) the Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and
Forestry (MPAEF); (iii) the National Agricultural Research Center (FCFIFA);
and (iv) the Ministry of Scientific and Technological Research (MRSTD). A
small component would assist the Ministry of Finance. Project support
would consist of technical assistance personnel, short-term consultancies,
training programs/study tours, and equipment/supplies. This assistance
would be integrated into annual work programs with agreed upon objectives,
personnel requirements, budgets, and measurable outputs.
48.       The proposed project is a major component of a broader Government
program. The Global Assistance Program to Institutions managing the
Agricultural Sector (Programme Global d'Assistance aux Institutions gerant
le Secteur Agricole) presented during negotiations currently includes
support to the newly created Department of Fisheries and Aquaculture in
MPAEF and to the Ministry of Commerce. These activities are to be financed
by UNDP. Support to the Department of Fisheries and Aquaculture would
consist of training headquarters and Faritany level staff in their new job
responsibilities and helping to develop an information system on fishery
subsector trends. The Ministry of Commerce component is designed to
improve the efficiency and productivity of export services and activities
within the Ministry. It includes the establishment of a computerized
market and price information system and the rehabilitation of export
product quality laboratories and related technical services.
Detailed Features
49.       For HPARA, project activities would support implementation of a
three-and-a-half-year operational plan for institutional development whose
objectives are to improve operational effectiveness by clarifying ministry
priorities, bringing personnel and financial resources into balance,
strengthening monitoring and analytical capabilities, and resolving some
basic operational issues (notably organization of agricultural extension
services on a national basis). The project would: (a) support monitoring
and evaluation, public investment programning and parastatal restructuring;
(b) assist in monitoring financial resource flows; (c) support management
of regular and contractual staff; (d) assist ministry staff in computer
planning and information management; and (e) sponsor a training program for
managers. The project would also support sector studies, including a
fertilizer study, and help design a national extension system which is
effective and sustainable. To bolster MPARA's economic and policy analysis
capability, the project would support monitoring of price and economic
trends, updating of farm budgets, and a training program for economic
staff. Project support would take the form of consultants, training,
office equipment, supplies, and vehicles.  Training activities would
include on-the-job training, in-country seminars, and limited overseas
courses.
50.       For MPAEF, priorities are to streamline services provided by
Ministry staff and to provide these essential services efficiently, to
bring financial resources into line with operational needs by restructuring
personnel, and to strengthen programming and analytical capabilities.
The project would: (a) strengthen project preparation; (b) support project
monitoring and evaluation; (c) restructure and reform parastatals; (d)
support finance and accounting systems; (e) strengthen personnel



-16-
management; (f) develop a medium-term computer and information system; (g)
plan and execute training programs for ministry managers and staff; and (h)
develop an improved system for maintaining and managing its vehicle fleet.
The project would also support economic and sector studies in order to
improve M]&EFf's policy and economic analysis.
51.       Proposed activities in support of agricultural research follow
from on-going activities under the first project, which addressed the
rehabilitation of FOFIFA and focussed on improving its management and
programming process. They would assist Government efforts to reorient and
to increase the efficiency of agricultural research operations. Central to
the reorientation underway is the decision to make research more
problem-oriented and to improve communications between research workers,
extension staff, and rural producers. Objectives are to define long-term
agricultural research priorities, to design an efficient and sustainable
agricultural research system, and to prepare and strengthen the national
agricultural research institute (FCFIFA) for carrying out the agreed
national research strategy. Improved priority setting and programming
should help FOFIFA to live within its means, both financially and in terms
of available human resources. The project would support FCFIFA and MRSTD
by: (a) reinforcing financial management and research management; (b)
training FOFIFA staff in research and station (administrative and
financial) management, and in specific skills like test design, sampling
methods and statistical analysis (biometrics); (c) preparing a complete
inventory of past research results; (d) preparing an international
symposium on agricultural research in Madagascar; (e) preparing a long-term
master plan for agricultural research; and (f) preparing a research project
to execute the first five year tranche of the master plan.
52.       The Project would support the Government's efforts to develop and
consolidate its information base on natural resources (land, water,
population, forest, fish, etc.).  Information to be collected and analyzed
would cover both qualitative and quantitative aspects of the resource base,
actual level of utilization, development potential, and constraints. This
information would aid the Government over the medium and long term in
regulating resource use (to avoid over-exploitation) and in planning
development efforts in various spheres. Project assistance would support
the first p.:ase of a longer-term national effort. Activities during this
first phase would include: (a) collecting and analyzing existing
information (e.g., documentary, satellite); (b) preparing inventories (maps
and supporting documentation) for land and water resources and for current
land-use patterns; and (c) training national staff. There will be
immediate benefits from this work for a wide range of agricultural planning
and management activities give'n the paucity of reliable information at
present.
53.       The project would also provide logistical support and short-term
technical assistance to two activities within the Ministry of Finance which
are related to the execution of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Program. These activities are to be carried out by: (i) an
interministerial Resource Management Task Force, which provides a focal
point for review and resolution of financial resource management issues;



-17-
and (ii) a Counterpart Funds Working Group, which has been set up to
examine problems and options related to the management of these significant
resources.
Project Implementation
54.       The programs for each component would be implemented by the four
ministries (Agricultural Production, Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry,
Research and Finance) and by a parastatal (the National Agricultural
Research Institute). The program of activities for each institution is
self-contained and does not depend on actions by another agency to attain
its objectives. The 'independence" of programs is intended to simplify
project implementation. Financial arrangements have been designed to
support this approach, with separate Credit allocations and disbursement
categories being established for each implementing agency. Project
activities are planned to be implemented over a period of about four
years. Project assistance would be integrated into annual work programs
for each institution, with agreed upon objectives, personnel requirements,
budgets, and measurable outputs. Start-up activities are underway,
financed by a PPF advance of US$ 680,000 approved in October, 1985 and
additional PPF financing of US$ 195,000 approved in January, 1986.
Project Costs
55.       Total project costs are estimated at FMG 8,929 million (US$12.8
million equivalent), with a foreign exchange component of 68 percent.
Project costs include technical assistance (long and short term
consultants), training, equipment, civil works and some incremental
operating costs. Incremental operating costs will mostly be to support the
execution of the natural resources inventory (vehicle operating costs,
salaries, supplies, internal travel and per diem). Tecbnical assistance
costs represent 51% of total base costs while training and equipment
account each for 15% of total base costs. Civil works represent only 2% of
total base costs. Incremental operating costs constitute 1OZ of total base
costs. Import duties and local sales tax amount to about 12 percent of
total costs. Base cost estimates reflect June 1985 prices updated to
January 1986.   Physical contingencies include 10 percent for
rehabilitation works and purchases of supplies; no physical contingencies
are included for staff, equipment, and operating costs, for which
quantities have been clearly established.
Financing Plan
56.       Financing of project costs would be shared between the Government
of Madagascar, IDA, and USAID. The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 8.7 million
(US $10.0 million equivalent) would finarne 78 percent of project costs.
This would pertain to the costs for technical assistance, training and
equipment associated with MPARA, MPAEF, MRSTD/F(FI[FA and the Ministry of
Finance.  USAID financing of US$ 0.5 million would help finance the
parastatal monitoring and restructuring components for MPAEF and MPARA. The
Government contribution of US $2.3 million would finance 67 percent of
incremental operating costs (net of taxes) and 100 percent of taxes and
import duties.



-18-
Disbursements
57.       Disbursement would be on the basis of: 100 percent of foreigr
expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures for Consultant services,
training, equipment, vehicles and incremental operating costs. All
disbursements will be fully documented except that disbursements for all
expenditures costing less than (or for contracts under) US$200,000 will be
made against statements of expenditure (SOE), documentation for which would
not be submitted for review but would be retained by the Borrower at the
institutions involved and would be subject to annual audit by auditors
acceptable to IDA. Disbursements are expected to be completed by December
31, 1990, that is a disbursement period of four and a half years. To
facilitate project implementation by speeding up disbursements, a Special
Account in US dollars, operated by the Treasury, would be established in a
bank acceptable to IDA with a sub-account for each of the Ministries. The
account would be replenished regularly on the basis of documentary evidence
for payments made.
Procurement
58.       Goods and services procured with Credit funds would be purchased
according to Bank/IDA guidelines. Cut off points for accepted procurement
procedures comprise: (a) local or international shopping for purchases less
than US$20,000; (b) local competitive bidding for purchases between $20,000
and $200,000; and (c) ICB for purchases over US$200,000. Procurement for
civil works would follow local competitive bidding procedures since no
international firm would be interested in works of such limited magnitude.
Local competitive bidding procedures would comply with the Borrower's
Decree 70-089 of January 28, 1970 with certain modifications agreed with by
the Bank. IDA will review draft bid documents for contracts exceeding an
estimated value of US$40,000 equivalent. Technical assistance provided
under the project would be recruited according to Bank/IDA guidelines for
the use of consultants.
Accounts and Audits
59.       Implementing agencies would maintain separate accounts for
project activities which would cover all source3 of financing (IDA, USAID,
Government funds'. Expenditures would be broken down by major expenditure
category to permit meaningful monitoring and anAlysis. Quarterly
expenditure statements would be prepared by each agency for IDA review.
Project accour-s would be audited on an annual basis, including an
inventory of physical acquisitions ;rnd their assignment within the agency.
Project accounts for all institutions involved should be presented annually
and the corresponding audited reports submitted to IDA within six months of
the end of each fiscal year. Audits of FCFIFA accounts would be carried
out as part of their regular annual audit by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association. Audits of Project accounts for ministerial
departments (MPARA, MPAEF, MRSTD, MPFE) would be carried out by independent
auditors (also acceptable to the Association) hired by the Ministry of
Finance in a single coordinated exercise.



-19-
Annual Work Programs and Reporting
60.       The project would be implemented on the basis of annual work
programs prepared by each implementing agency and approved by its
respective minister or managing director and IDA. The programs would serve
as a planning, implementation and monitoring tool and would provide the
necessary flexibility to ensure adjustment of project activities to current
circumstances. Each annual work program would include: (i) an evaluation
of the previous year's performance and a discussion of how the new program
builds on that experience; (ii) a statement of specific objectivee
(quantified) to be pursued during the year in question and a description by
component of the activities to be undertaken in order to achieve those
objectives; (iii) detailed investment and operating budgets by component,
showing the manpower, financial, and physical resources required to carry
out the proposed annual program; (iv) staffing and training plans; (v) a
financing plan which indicates the source of funds for items iu the
investment and operating budgets (IDA credit categories, FNDE - national
investment fund-, counterpa:t funds, USAID); and (vi) procurement plans for
purchases and works scheduled in the annual work program, including type of
bidding and timetables. Preparation and approval of the annual work
program would follow the Government's budget cycle.   Draft work plans
would be submitted to IDA for review by September of each year and the
final version would be agreed upon by December. First year work programs
have been reviewed and approved.
61.       Each implementing agency would prepare semi-annual reports
describing progress in achieving work program targets, comparing actual
costs with budget estimates, and explaining variations between actual and
planned results in these areas. These reports would also include
expenditure statements for IDA review based on each implementing agency's
project accounts. Each implementing agency would prepare a project
completion report for the components under its implementation
responsibility and would submit this report to IDA no later than six months
after the Credit closing date.
Project Justification, Benefits, and Risks
62.       The project reflects IDA's long-term commitment to agricultural
institution building in Madagascar as a means to remove policy,
institutional, and managerial constraints to sector performance. It
supports directly the broad reform program under the Agriculture Sector
Adjustment Credit by increasing the ability of the ministries to implement
policy reform in relevant areas and provide the data and analytical tools
for the Government to consider future policy options for medium term
adjustment. Benefits in the form of increased returns to the agricultural
portfolio would be obtained by improving resource allocation processes and
focusing on prioriry subsectors with high production potential.
63.       Under the first Agricultural Technical Assistance Project,
substantial progress was made in improving planning and programming
processes, which must be sustained to derive higher benefits from these
process improvements which require a long implementation period.
Cumulative benefits beyond those obtained from the first Agricultural
Institutions Technical Assistance project are expected to be significant.



-20-
The current status of resource management in Madagascar acts as a
disincentive to investment, as, for example, donors become frustrated with
the low rate of utilization of resources in certain projects. Improved
efficiency of financial resource management processes would increase
confidence of foreign aid donors and investors. Improvements in MPARA's
and MPAEF's management and financial administration will strengthen the
capacity of the Government to implement its agricultural development plan,
and increase the absorptive capacity of the sector.
64.       Benefits would also arise from an updated and comprehensive
knowledge of Madagascar's natural resource potential. This has particular
importance since the current information base is practically non-existent
and many areas of the country remain unkLown. The development and
consolidation of a natural resources information base would allow
ministries to plan development efforts by identifying areas of opportunity
which have been neglected or under-exploited to date and by avoiding over
exploitation through regulation of resource use. It would also serve to
define priority intervention areas with highest agricultural production
potential. In the medium and long-term, substantial benefits are expected
from stronger conservation and land resource management, and an improved
ability to monitor and respond to challenging environmental characteristics
of Madagascar such as the high susceptibility to erosion. In this
perspective, the project would support the national conservation strategy
endorsed by the Government during the November 1985 Environmental
Conference with the World Wildlife Fund and the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources.
65.       Primary project beneficiaries are the major institutions which
have a critical impact on agricultural sector development: MPARA, MPAEF,
MRSTD, and FOFIFA. Benefits from the project in the form of technical
assistance, equipment and training would be closely linked to a
clarification and redefinition of the appropriate role of these
institutions. The withdrawal of these institutions from activities which
could be executed by the private sector (for example, fertilizer supply)
and the more effective provision of producer services achieved through this
redefinition expand the range of beneficiaries to segments of the private
sector interested in the agriculture sector and to the users of services
provided. Secondary benefits obtained from improvements in the quality of
the project portfolio would be widely distributed among the population
affected by those projects. The joint development and upgrading of
agricultural research and extension within the project would stimulate
agricultural production by, among other factors, introducing more efficient
varieties and cultivation methods. Improvements in the extension system
would provide direct benefits to a broad range of farmers in the form of
more effective support services leading to increased production and
revenues. By focusing research activities and rendering them more relevant
to agricultural production needs, the project would be also reinforcing the
impact of the extension systems.
66.       A short term implementation risk is that consultants would be
used inefficiently due to delays in their selection and cumbersome
bureaucratic procedures hindering timely action on recommendations. The
experience of the first Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance
Project demonstrated that these problems can be overcome with strong



-21-
Government commitment. Another risk is that institutional or
organizational changes could call for modifications in project design which
could compromise institutional development objectives. Flexibility built
in through annual work programs should offset this risk, with assessment of
proposed organizational changes as an explicit criterion in assessing
annual programs. Long-term implementation risks arise from deeper
structural issues of the institutional environment. The fluidity of
organizations and positions, the shortage of mid-level professionals, the
closure of many technical educational centers, and low salary levels are
all structural factors which constrain the project's impact. In addition,
high staff turnover is a major cause of dissipation of impact over time, as
specially trained staff transfer to positions which do not use their
acquired skills. The longer term impact of the project depends to a large
extent on the resolution of these structural issues. Some of them are
directly addressed by the project. The training program for managers and
support to the management of regular and contractual staff within the
Financial and Programming Department in MPARA and the strengthening of
MPAEF personnel management and training focus on the resolution of some of
these .tructural issues. Issues which are not directly addressed by
project activities must be included as part of the ongoing dialogue with
Government at the project, sectoral and country levels. The improvement of
recruitment and retention of mid-level professionals and the stabilization
of positions and organizational structures require understandings, and
measures by the Government, which cannot be reached through a single
project. These issues will be kept under constant review during project
implementation. An open dialogue with Bank missions is expected to lead to
an annual institutional development program for each of the ministries
involved. Linkages between training and personnel management issues (such
as rotation of personnel) will also be addressed within these programs to
increasa the impact of training activities. Activities are underway by the
Ministry of Civil Service and Labor to deal wifth some of these issues,
while attention is being given on a Government-wide basis to the
revitalization of the agricultural education system.
PART V - RECONMENDATION
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Attachments
A. W. Clausen
President
May 13, 1986



- 22 -                                       Annex 1
T A LE 36                                       Page 1 of 5
IABACCA                -SOCIAL IDICATORtS IMTA SHEET
LM SCnAS                            REFRECE QOuPl (NESCaVTD AVERAGES) Ia
HOST                (HOST RCT ESTIHATE) lb
RECNT      LW ICEN  AFRICA        mNICLE rN-cm
LWt&.!   197eS    gSTIA.T/b         SIE OF SABA"         AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
a     ( (OMM sq. U)
TOTAL                               587.0      517.0      587.0
ACRIaLTL                            361.2     363.7       370.1
CW MR CAPI  CUsl)                      130.0     190.0       320.0              249.1                 1112.9
(KILOCRANS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)        27.0      50.0        61.0               62.6                  529.0
maTins a_ A     iA AL TISTIS
POPULATION.NID-IEAR (T {USNU)      5"4.0    4715.0       9199.0
URIA  POPULATION CE OF TOTAL)        10.1      16.1        19.5               19.2                   29.7
FOPUATtfI PRO1CriONS
POPULATIO IN TlA 2000 (HILL)                             If.l 
STATTOHAST POPULATION (HILL)                             54.1
POPULA%TION lomNlt                                        1.9
POPULATION UEESITT
PER SQ. 1m.                         9.3      11.6        15.3               32.5                   11.8
PEA SQ. It. AGI. LAND              15.2      16.7        24.2              119.2                  111.5
POPULATION AE STRUCT   (Z)
0-14 13.5                         41.       42.&        43.9               45.6                   45.4
11-64 135                          55.2      53.9        52.9               51.5                   51.7
6S A ADMBOVE                        3.2       3.3         3.3                2.9                    2.9
POPULATION GlOs RItATE (C)
TOTAL                               1.6       2.1         2.5                2.6                    2.8
URBAN                               6.9       5.0         5.2                6.2                    5.2
CRMDE SIXTH RATE (PER Tll0tl)        46.7      45.2        4.7               4*.6                    47.0
CRUDE OEATH RATE (PtR TROUS)         26.6      21.9        L7.8               17.7                   15.2
CROSS NEPRODUCTION RATE               3.0       3.0         3.2                3.2                    3.2
FARt!. PFLANING
Sn. AL (TNOUS).                                 .
USR  %OF HARRED USCM)
INDEX OF FOOD PMOO. PE CAPITA
(1949-71-100)                        69.0     102.0        94.0               65.6                   91.6
PMM CAITA SPILT OF
CALORIES (2 OF REIREMS)           100.0      107.0      109.0               36.4                   98.2
PROTEINS (CRAMS PE DAY)            57.0      59.0        56.0               49.9                   Sb.7
OF HIIIN ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0       17.0       15.0 IC            16.3                   17.0
CNILO (AS 1-4) DEATH RATE            45.0      32.0        23.0               23.6                   18.7
LIFE EXECT. AT 31NTM (YTRS)          37.2      42.2        67.9               U6.4                   51.7
IIFANT MORT. RATE (tP  TNOUS)       177.0     149.0       116.0              117.5                  102.7
ACMSS TO SAFE ATEtR (IPOP)
TOTAL                                ..       11.0       25.0 Id            21.6                   35.6
UR                                   .       67.0        76.o Td            61.5                   54.1
RURAL                                . .       1.0       T4.o7              14.2                   27.3
ACCESS TO RETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF PPULvATION)
!OTAL                                ..         ..         ..               32.0
URBAN                                ..      U.0           ..               69.2
RaRAL                                ..         ..        9.0 Id            24.5
POPULATION PER PHWSICIAN           6900.0   10170.0    10170.0 la          27477.8                11946.3
POP. PER NWRSING FERSON            3110.0 If 3350.0      366O.0 7V          339e.2                 2246.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                             420.0      350.0      500.0 /a          1069.0                  986.9
URAN                              150.0 /f  210.0       z4o.o 7            395.2                  361.7
RURAL                             610.0 7rf  460.0      520.0 7           30964.0                4012.1
AlWlSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        ..
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..       5.          4.7 I /d
UR                                   ..       3.3         5.o 7d
RURAL                                         5.9         4.7 Td
AVERaCS N0 OF Fg.SOXSIPOgt
TOTAL                                ..         ..
URBA                                 ..        ..
RURAL                                ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 oF IELLINCS)
TOTAL                                ..         ..
.AN                                  ..        ...
RURAL                                ..         ..



-  23                                           Annex 1
hDAGC                 - SOCSL  SlDtCATOIU DaT  IN
MADAGASCAR                            RZIRRNOCE rawi (MEZUIIE  AVEMNAR) 
MOST                   (m S     R ETIMATE) /b
Rk XRET         LOW t30H  AFCICA      NDu Xi.
Iffalb-   191Ob    ZST IASTLk          DOU  or SARA    AIFRCA S. or SAMA
ADJUSTED EROLLMENT kATIOS
PRIATSz  TOTAL                     52.0      U.O        t00.0 /             69.2                   91.0
KALE                     38.       95.0          ..               78.6                  90.5
PUALE                   45.0       61.0         ..                57.6                   73.6
S3CONDA: TOTAL                      4.0      11.0        14.0 IC            13.1                   17.7
MALE                      5.0      13.0          ..                7.                    Z
FEUALt                    3.0       9.0         ..                 6.3                   14.6
VOCATIONAL (Z or SECONDARY)           9.1       6.7          ..                7.2                    5.3
PUPIL-dtEACKER RATIO
plUNAY                             70.0       65.0       55.0 f             *6.1                   3.6
SECOUDARY                          24.0       20.0       23.0 7             25.9                   24.3
ADULT LITERACT RATL CZ)                *-       39.0       50.0 jc            44.3                   35.6
PASSEauOR CARSTUOUSAND POP            4.0       6.8         7.1                3.8                   20.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAID POP         15.0      79.7       195.1               41.9                  100.6
TV RECEIVERS/TH NO vor                 ..       0.5         5.2                2.0                   16.5
NEWSPAPER (DAXLY GEIRAAL
1NTMES) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             7.7       7.8          ..                5.4                   17.2
CIXElA ANUAL AT.ENDLNCEICAPITA        0.5 if    0.7          ..                1.4                    0.3
IAL YMa
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          3046.0    3620.0      4634.0
PIJALE (PERCENT)                   46.9       46.1       44.5               34.5                   33.3
ACRIGULTURE (PERCENT)              93.0       SO.O       B7.0               77.4                   57.1
NDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   2.0       3.0         4.0                9.0                   17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCEIT)
TOTAL                              55.6       53.4       50.4               41.0                   36.3
KALE                               60.7       58.8       56.0               52.1                   47.6
-3141.                             50.9       48.2       44.7               30.2                   2m1
C-OQC DEPENDENC RATIO                 0.8       0.9         0.9                1.2                    1.4
PRCENT OF PRIVATE LNCOIE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5S OF HOUSEUOLDS           41.0
*ICHEST 20Z OF INlDSENOLDS         ;0.1 7A     .           '-
ELST 2S WOF HOUSEHOLDS              z.:7
LOWEST 60* OF BUSEWOLDS            13.0        ..
-OVM     1 su T G
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVETY LIN
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBA                                 ..         ..      150.0 fG           LnB.3                  515.3
RRAL                                 ..         ..       S6.0               90.6                  249.0
ESTIMATED  LATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAITA)
DUA                                  ..         ..      135.; c            107.7                  477.4
RURAL                                ..        ..        86.0               65.0                  166.0
ESTICATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVErtY INCOKE LEVEL (Z)
URSA                                 ..         ..       50.0 Ic            34.7
RURAL                                ..        ..    ....... 50.O  j        65.4.
NOT AVAILALE
NOT APPLICABLE
N OES T S
/a  The srup averaes for each ondicator are population-weigbted aritbmetic means. Caverns of countres Sao" the
Sodicatorz depend. on availability of data and Is not naiforx.
/b  Unle_ othere nored, 'Da t for 1960' rfer to any yar betoen 1959 en  1961;  ata for 1970' betves 1969 end
1971; and data for Moet Rlecnt Estimate between 1980 and 1962.
/c  1977; /d 1975; /. 1978; If 1962; ILP opulation.
JlE, 1934



ANNEX 1
-24 -                                                            Page 3of 5
ba"--   MM.  aor  da      w2-dmo, I..   .   i.alalil   _   ama  a-W.aalaa  di" moMool. voit   l   l-  a*l-  .  b,              aa  .i.-a
ftoa--ab.    -.,0 -ditat .lai.aii.dRdm,al.. dVft                 a-md mydIfaa. . -o      . Iag .911b aaa m b .a.  ima d-  0-         -    d-a0i.-a  m ft Ia
a.O . adu  -  -aaaa  ai--l.CMi1    110  t= -..  - .maa._aai-a 0.1. 1. 3C ilftaa.    ot -     NM In. Bo       oo    -      FM
a-ba  991.... aa. a -   Il d0. aPmi-yi-a e.ab.a-a  mae,m d41"!   a ma..t"      mao a-la-  a-a IM ma.. a-%           a Ama  -1aba a   la"a e-Mo aI 0.
ia-a ma. ia-a. ha-a  ma. g -i... IS-  01.  -.vm .1 aa-"a  M0             a.m    al um   ..di -  0. A-a.i.bLuty,.  dot i -a-t Mo dii... .a-a - MMa
.aa.aadI aa'ld.a--IS m   dt -  Laa1tl- . . aa.aba. VA-.  --aM. .. a-a?-a!. f9L t. 4ma...... sm a-a -u -9   1.4110. M . :a-.    aa IRA  ma, d
Ia-as Iaba-a-di a-a.-.ba.                    -o% "M                            "W llfL.a,.9HtM  - PW.l1.I1  dE*tima ,ha-ft  .9 P-.fltm-
IW.l-st d-ia-W -4*MIa-                             l.  1a diLf I-olu- pyk-                                       t-lap.la    a-pl?                 ld
.1mm..  -Iaatla-I -O-I... a- a-dft- MUqa.Cla-apa a-a.  lm                   pAMLh.  14.1a -        i di1ul. -  -411111...p   off
a-il. di IWa- hab.   Mmi                                                                               bp..         %B  . di .hla.    a.4t-   - ftlp a-ba-ai.L
Ia.-a               - M-ol  .Wa.laL              -a- .llm                        -da-L1            som-MI  M.Im            L..L L.-M       v.1a-.a-.
P---V  Zaisaw    pft_l~~~~~~~ -1 8di a-a d. a-a. A m..ha                                           ia-ba. - wt  - mamamaa  .
-1  J~K.1%731. ; 1--   r   ~1-loft M   -69ftagm.199d 1.. a.azaAL..   inI9.8
[lei       a-a  mslul-                                                                   le - mSa- ..-a- a              "  - I-O
.w di       di 087 ....Iaav di aa-liUaw       mth.,. a-aa-.1dA~. W.ka.g-  r.h ftb.             n   aaa.e.d
asia.     a-aol di l-ma -lIkM.  'A-b      -4mhI Pp- I?                       I h M W            v. . a-lab  Maaaaa  a-I 2!  a.-  - M aai
...aah IV,A. 2a-allta a-IWO    a.o a-ma la-dal .atp.-..  dPM-
t...w    gif.t             ...i a           ua.abalI l.a-la. W..                          -           0   -n.vI..-a-W aI  aOl.
a-- m.    ft-jap d     --        -aa   aa  m                                    pta. -al -ha--- pdla &maaa w. i -al-  aa   -a--
la-l0.aala- .aal"I a-a- aMt pa1.i   0. l-a past .I.                          -Wmap bmaa ij-Wamd  -.. dtiiaa..    mooorkl-8.4pldiyaWalit-
lp. aa a-ft  . im   a-aa..a  Sa.Laa,-lo,. -  .6um- 0.                           am        apm        a..   W.I.dlil.a    a
Wl40pal-    itmaWa-kca l...0.pw.a -l  0.Olo  a-F.                                                  W MI-aaI--   a   i a    - ha.aa 1 -  haa W  a.a
Sa- d   M. aath..%-We   Wa-ali .1aa.a. .a.sa.ft f-a...t                         lid         ala- 9 1.-am   1   y-a 4   aaad   ha    aa
a-a1d  0.  ... W I l-al.aata lo.a-a-aaa b. a. calaiaam.                        a-la mlaa-  a:.._mft  I? maa--a-Nol aa a- .-a-gh-m-   -
I.    a- -llay  -0.    -- aa.   Ma-   a-  14 a-a.a -d. ia.1                      a-a.a.Io a-al--.        d l        " -M,.               o
A..alov S a    ia.a. oa-am.7 ,aP j Ia      4 -. .a.m 40                      ansI- .  ...aI. a l.a..a  - .aa-da-i C"   W..aama&  a-.."   a.a
baaIaa  aaa-..l a-.e.aaa..- ama-- ---aal. . a 0. .~ 0. I-                        anea                     Mt-aa&   -a.. .-aaa...sl    Oa
,a-lsIa- 1.11                                                          tlma  d  a-a--da  a-.aaa dlt.   .  -.a-   .aWa-  a  0
-t  . -  -   .a    -lata--a  .. -a-. a-  a-. IM. .-aa---.Ia           _..-a..3    a...aa..1
a.... a-a-aa-a la-a. iplR.  i aWl               da.ai--a a-la-..  ladI..a-I-l...a-a.l-m.a-t-  d.aa5
.r   .D m J.a -I_a*I  14-m,.-.  a.aA..w                              MML 4-
Shall-  la-a 1910 di I-a  'a.     'i iW                                                           ha-              l .a.4Mmaa.  a-a..a d
1 - a    -  ml ala- a..  di M1.1 .1                                                .* Gd     -Al- I
l.   -a-a le-A. I'M. di a04    ia-a..                                           ma m   r.ma,:  aa..a          w-       "UK
I.011.t L-i -W  ha..                  ..-I                                          - -           PPahadi       IS  inIm-  -      ..aa-a
0-1. -d         aa- lha. a- d9a-.  .6            dl   Ia  a                  .my.   i9.,.h ..aaa. d  V                         -I   I-
diba-Vm.a-      i: h          -.   fmaa  hi  a.S                                  aa.ba        -aai~- C.aa- a-if a-- al    m          -- 0. ha. 
ma.       .              h ab-a-  a-m a - 
ba-la I      I          ,-a .a    bao., - la..a.. at ald-                   .mo,a- di. ..    gdf f- ~ Io   7-   .R-I 
mat 1. aaE..AN111111  -~ I. M      Ia .-0. W hoa   p-C.                                            ma ..8.aa  LZ    aar  a-. ma... a-a
W fo amo-W il tqfoo .-   9                                                                 al oa ma-4. tiz- di Wl ha..w t_      WMt       .F
1-991,12,       -gm.. Ura-     Il fg--  la-a sa-aa.h Mae  -di*                                                                            = ,
Idi di I. -..Iha ga-aa imia. ~iaa-.. a...  at. .7 g-h(..a.      a    t. paa-mam Pa-no L..   0.faa:aa                ftl  d   aa a..AWd
an-..-aaadid  a-.I a-ama    a  i aal.aa-a-a-L-at.t                                     -Mu    a   Ia- fa. M    a-   .  a.Ia.    1
ma - a.aa    .    mIm   pa. -.PkLaa      EWll. .919.-d= l                    di II 
9                                                                                   aaa-.a-d  ama.a.  iI-aasaii. a-ta aot -f aalw
-Fa h   ft,i  C.p. -Ift.a..o haa    .ma-at  a-a-a   or.IO  iaad    a aa.   W.-md  -3mam-d-i 
a-"A-a.-In ha.. -. 8--.di    -a  "POU. aS-Ia   iLii   .i.aial    a..a.aad .. d.Ih.                                         .     i P.-. 1tW. ldi  a-
aaa       d a (iP  aaa-.  di laal Mm dai-W a-P...aI--                  .aat        -h.aa-              %Mm.-..        fm
ma di - iiamakW.a.f .a.i.al-. di au.....6  0 paaa.a Ia...ft&...- f                               M P...v          Roft, U
a-a mIld i.a.t. ama-as. am  di la-a ha..                                                 f--so           C--.%mug -
a-a   -  . a-c Ia -   p -a   boo.la-l          am  at. ma" a-.V.--. . 1 gm" ha. I- C-;a d_1N. W -ad  byU Al0.a
I-om  r .0-1          y "o"  -1 ll a- ada.                         mIld-..                      - 9-~ 
alt m a-t    -ad 1.   A61 a-.in. ma-h      Ci Uma a,-fdal A.dRiM9-a                                                       -     o, .             "
-aI.  -lmla  -. Wai pooa- 0.di m -ial ptaal-..1m-                                d        d,
aadi..di      a-a ha  .00415  aINA-Ia.n.d   1pm                           8    V      i -       a.l, aalpmaa. aina- a- lo pta-v  -a M
a-f  iala-al  ma  mam  fa..  -lIi   m     , by0.I- .0.-                         aa... -wa- mi .1   madal  a-ala-a.r u
Thadi bald Ia.i a-ig:  mia--. - ftIRS IWfoodm.. lw- -tf%".-                                              a--    -a-do a aa M,IoI-   ILa- - .aa.-    paau moo
a."   o --      L  o, n   MB-  -L.&  ofto, E..ma,td -W.                     - obo  W           c pa--iimAl   m-W.  a.0 Io"    -a, ."
- - 6 ftl   ..- dt .       .     maft  sona a.. a.- ha.111, a.111l              .- eIPPafoo   -qd2-1
mal  IllddW   .   I.aa.   l,amd   l   i.ail                                                  a-i 0.    rla-  R. sr, -.A. *WI dad F-t.. 0. a.      I
1-mm, M _9  MM UMMM food S. 4W&-i - ORM, b-                    mIa-la aa           .....a.m  m o~ -  at P-i. a. ama   ....
a         -U-llso,mK-           o amam    ma  l-,a-a-.t al.a-lig9.a. mW   daa-l0a
alIt. bda-a           . m ma   Womo, 111b   a -UME
"A"IW      am apt  11-0.IWO. ail  miO ama ,          .
~   a-a-a (aa. a-.  - d       AOLZ 1J Ma-.a..   FIFO      a-at.i    A                                           ml    _Id
a-a  .ma (04.1-  maO  maft.. m a...          -   N    do                      P.....&  Ia                     a-mama   ddi,-.di aajl-all. ft' a-a
Pt.-   a- ma P-    mamaU    -  ba-a-a m.18MO. a-ahl         a-i d h
-Mo  -k  M~ Pmome.                                       a,"dDt    mLI . -
-m          ftf ftaada-' C-.    a1MR mo1      .7             an    -,
m a     aft .a. aa-a p-aa. Was a"M"--          a.  ma  amd.
0.o 4WAtl-. ftdlg dla-ina3l. i -  a-maa.aaa aIaoa,a
dit a-LMm byo ama-a. -maM Raf0.- cooRft pa- p..-ad



-25-                              p4 ofS.
G;S DM     C PE: L 1983                                    ARL   RU   OF aGM    I/
Ms min.   S                   1970-78  19798-3
AP at !'cdrc Pric               2.83J.7        100.0             0.1       0.0
es,:vci                         2.646.3         93.3           -0.6        0.8
GCIms Dncic -om                   373;          13.7           -4.1       -4.2
OWzu. A         BDalmm          -324.3        -U.4              -          -
EVOCc GoodS. W*S                  3214.5        11.4             2.8      -9.5
Ijqam  of Cdu. ZS                506.9          17.9           -2.3      -7.0
war urn .-.-
i9.rLVflY L; :d3
I    widd   2/       laboir Forme 3/       VA Per WOr&E
I         u~~~Lss !Mln              Ow ao_ss %a=                    s
hpiozfz                          1155.1        410.7      4095     S.4         32.1      46.0
Zzhnry                           418.6          14.8       127      2.7      3.326.l    537.8
Serim                            1156.2         41.0       357      7.7      3,23.7    534.s
1al-locaced >107.8                               3.5        51      1.2      2.113.7    3.4.9
Total                            21M.7         M0._       46M      M m0        612.9    1W .h
G a E                         E   &                  : C1
Cartral Go  z      l
1963            15975    1983    1983
Omze=Pce#ts                    141.0             13.6    1A.6    1.4
Gwru't En;,. s                143.0             13.0    16.    11.7
Oarw  Defidt                   -20              40.6    -1.8    -0.2
Capla!. E~r-_Tizr~             '9.9              3.3  I3.4  - .1
1a:e,                           17.1              1.6     S.2     1.4
!9:8    1979    198D    1961      162       1983
1lm  E0;zstzllz:g a ck- End acm c  Peood)
mmey min QumZs MM,                141.0   173.0   M6.0    42.0    276.0    271.5
3.nk CNrdit to pzbUc se=r         49.0    9.0   176.0   234.0    3%.O    3)r,0
as* Crediz to sraze emerpi-ses
a6  pva   eor                   101.0   121.0   15.0   164.0    137.0    23.6
(P.rcegza  or tcdoxv:ens)
Mm. ad QlZtiti Ma   as : ofGOP    3.0    29.1    29.9   3D.7         27.7      22.2
2 PrLce DOlntor (1970 - I00)    195.7   217.9   250.6   313.7    403.9        88.9
AzmL peru=aw  cbmac  1.r-
GDP Pric DIEar                     6.8    11.4    15.0    25.2       3.8      21.0
Ec  Cedlt to pmL:c sectcr   ,      5.0   102       77.8    33.3      13.7  1;.3
Borc Cadit to scae  -ee-rism
aprivatesecr                    5.2    19M8    26.0      9.3      0.1     16.5
ice: AUll   m=i=  to dollars 1z :Es table ame ac tm ewap    F     rare     mAIL-pg &rllm dhe
period =veteL..
1 Tr 1970 prim  !or L l73-R a  1982 pdmc for 196-1963.
T At markat prm.
IY Toc.i LAba  forc  1r 9S).
Tq~or doc.
j1g7 Ige



-26 -                              ANNEX I
page 5 of 5
&ASCAR -         BEM      AD  PrL    S
MANEF BlYOPAMSEN ANDIS EXKMS (AVEMZ 1981-64)
1982   1983  1984 1/                             US$Mln.    Z
Cll$ MIffku)
Coffee                       113.1     37.9
VaiLla                       48J       16.3
Clovs                        51.6      17.3
Flsh pro&s                   20.3      6.8
Earts of Oods & N.F.S.  378.6 363.5  352.3  N4at pro&xcts                      34       1.1
lqrts of Goods & N.F.S.  651.7 580.3  469.9   Textiles                        10.9      3.7
Petzolem products             9.8      3.3
Pewource blarce          -273.1 -216.8 -117.6  lUzxral pro&dcts               11.4      3.8
Otber cnumwditLes            29.4       9.8
Total                  298.6    100.0
Iwsetment IzEaM (rat)    -94.6 -106.3  -132.1
Ptivate Tramnfers (net)    -1.4  -1.2    3.0   EXTERNL MEr, ErMOR 31, 1983
US$ Mm.
brrent Account BFlmee   -369.1 -324.3  -246.7
Pblic Debt, lzll. guaranteed   1,883.9
Official.l  euqste                              N     m       Private Debt       -
Mrazufers             72.3  63.8   74.2   Total Outstuxdirg & Dinbarsed   1,883.9
Net 14LT Borrwdmg:        189.0  51.5  169.9   EEB S CICE MIO SR 1984 3/
Disbursements           209.9  200.6  132J                                  z
AUDrtziutk             -110.4 -183.9 -168.1
ebt RelIef               89.5  34.8  325.3   Pilic Debt, nl   Sm d    38.0 41 5/ & 61
t        t   (met) 2/     116.4)         26.6
) 209.0          iiymk LtlG, March 31, 1984
Qmoge in Pmrves            -8.6)        -24.2                        US$ Uioa.
(Iz=eee  - -)
-g &
REA  OF EI1ME             1982   1983   1984      Dishie            29.50 231.6
UbL9sbrsed               145.41
US$1.00 - FM              350.0 430.45 576.60  Outst9ndaxg 11x1.
Ft   1 -US$              0.0029 0.0023 O.OD17      ThxUsbed         29.50 376.77
1/ Prou'siozl etimtes.                          4/ Paris Club agreeo t zesckaIle about $120
Z/ Inch   tnet 1W credit, staCt ad pivate            Illirn March 1984; Ion Club, $S195
abort-    CLait.l, auars and cx2dted             ndflUaza In Ny 1984.
arrears, aid errors and aissians.             5/ After effects of debt reschlulirg
3/ Debt erViCe piymcs as Z of eXportS of Mods  6    rder Paris Club.
ard services                                  6 rovseoel data wIU be revised wben updated
debt data are avadlable.
Apzil 1985



-27-                                            I
- 27  ~~~~~~~ ~Annex II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS                        Page 1 of 2
IN THE DDIOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31. 19861
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year   Borrower    PuSDoSe                      Bank      IDA1   Undisbursed
----(US S Millions)-
Twelve Credits and Five Lo as
have bean fully disbursed                                  32.57  139.93         --
CR  817-NAG  1978  Madagascar Andekaleka Hydroelectric               40.602       2.05
CR  881-MAG  1979   Madagascar Mangoky - Agriculture                  12.00       2.02
CR  038-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Highways V                            24.00       0.10
CR  977-MAG  1980  Madagascar  Industrial lank - BNT                  5.00        0.10
CR 1002-MAG  1980  Madagascar Water/Sanitation                        20.50       4.37
CR 1016-NAG  1980  Madasgscar Petroleum Exploration                   12.50       0.60
CR 1064-MAG  1981   Madagascar Agricultur  Blak - 37H                 11.50       2.67
CR 1086-NAG  1981  Madagascar Plain of Antananarivo T.A.              2.30        0.97
CR 1155-MAG  1981   Madagascar Accounting & Audit                     11.50       2.67
CR 1161-NAG  1981   Madagascar Forestry II                            20.00       7.39
CR 1211-NAG  1982  Madagascar  Village Livestock II                   15.00      11.06
CR 1249-MAG  1982  Madagascar Agriculture Institutions                5.70        1.03
CR 1298-MAG  1982  Madagascar Tslmiroro Heavy Oil Exploration         11.50       4.86
CR 1337-NAG  1982  Madagascar  Lac Alsotra                            18.00      14.08
CR 1391-NAG  1983   Madagascar  Sixth Highway                        25.00       11.94
CR.F004-NAG  1983   ------- " -----" -------                         20.00       10.84
CR 1433-NAG  1983   Madagascar Cotton Development                     7.90        4.32
CRFO08-NAG  1093   ------- " -----  ------ "------                    9.90        6.27
CR.F1497-MAG 1983   Madagascar  Urban                                 12.80      12.33
CR 1526-MAG  1984   Madagascar  Cyclone Rehabilitation                15.00       4.33
CR 1541-NAG  1985  Madagascar  Industrial Assistance                 40.00       37.67
CR A0070-MAG 1985   Madagascar  Industrial Assistance (SFA)          20.00       17 49
CR 1589-NAG  1985   Madagascar  Irrigation Rehabilitation             12.00      14.08
CR 1661-NAG3 1986  Madagascar Accounting & Mgtmt Training             10.30      10.30
TOTAL                                    32.57  522.93     183.45
of which has boen repaid               5.61    3.91
TOTAL now outstanding                   26.96  519.02
Amount sold
of which has b-en repaid              --        6.40
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA           26.96  512.62
TOTAL undisbursed                                          183.45
11 The status of projects listed in Part 'A' is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
21 Including a supplemental credit of US$ 10 million of 1980.
3/ Not yet effective



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31. 1986)
Loan     Equity       Total
------(US$ Million)-------
1977    Sotema - Textile Mill at Majunga           11.00     0.29        11.29
1980    Bata - Shoe Manufacturing in
Antananarivo                              1.25     --           1.25
1983    Pecheries de Nossi-Be                       2.57     0.18         2.70
1985    Cotona, S.A. at Antisirabe                  6.65     0.17         6.82
22.06



- 29 -
ANNEX III
MADAGASCAR
SECOND AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
I.         Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation              October 1984
(b) Appraisal Mission                May/June 1985
(c) Negotiations                    February 1986
Cd) Planned Date of Effectiveness   September 1986
II.        Special Bank Group Implementation Action:
Project Preparation Facility (P-F) financing has been approved
for start-up activities. A PPF advance of US$ 680,000-was approved in
October 1985 for MPARA and MPAEF, and a PPF advance of US$ 195,000 was
approved in January 1986 for the MRSTD natural resources inventory.
III.       Special Conditions
(a) The project will be implemented on the basis of annual work
programs prepared by each implementing agency and approved by its
respective minister or managing director and IDA. Draft work prog'ams
would be submitted to IDA for review by September of each year and the
final version would be agreed upon by December.
(b) FCFIFA will review with IDA on an annual basis: (i) its
staffing situation, the appropriateness of its field station network, and
budget allocations; (ii) proposals reflecting relative priorities and
streamlining of research programs. Government will provide sufficient
funds to finance agreed research programs.
(c) Upon preparation of the agricultural research master
plan, the Government would submit all documents relating to its
implementation to IDA and national and international agencies interested in
financing agricultural research. The Government will also consult IDA and
these agencies to coordinate the financing of the implementation of the
agricultural research master plan.
(d) Prior to Credit Disbursement for the natural resources
inventory, the Government would second sufficient national staff for the
execution of the natural resources inventory.



IBRD 1940
MADAGASCAR                                                                         GAr
AGRICULTURAL INVESIMENT                                                                       Antsemno
LINE OF CREDIT PRWET                                                                       +
LOCATION OF BTM OFFICES
RePRESLeNArION nE tA FrA4
G    G'e,Ps                  PaItclraod                                               Aw
A    &O"                       llI aohw *oads OYfrt 
A#- l                    .s~~~~es  06fs aHell_It" "g +fo  V0w_,                                   A...
U-                             +~~~~~&"  RfO."i Jmoeir                                 Ag
*~~~~~~~ A B. --
Br   _..wo.,,                     5W~5                                      A ApA                                    i
ow.ige.ee.  CAecs... d. (.. ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ndeweb
la        (                                           oforri_ _eo/
mwwpngo                                                 +.co a
T-be              FesivoAltsinanana
It  A\                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Toamiasina
2  XA /rrona~~~~Kwno
w"S a   sa  ea  w50   ^   _                                                                   eGascs~~ ~ c   WpW
un o  50  w                .                          ^Z.                               NOVENtBER 19S! >~0 ~WB*  ..
M-nd ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                         w*-    
St  ~~~~~~                                                                                             ~~~.       -   Sf~~~l6d&
Artisi                                                  zw-~~~- -II m&.
A ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      -         . 
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    f                                                            
a                                           ~~~~~~~~AFRICA
WICOMWER 13    so5   100   IS0
V.AC4A5C-Ar
-,E.S 0       so        100F
NOVEMBER 1985






