Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12610
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
SECOND AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS PROJECT (ATIA II)
(CREDIT 1709-MAG)
DECEMBER 17, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Year       Malagasy francs  Malagasy francs
per SDR          per USS
1985            698.4            662.5
1986            941.6            676.3
1987           1,751.0          1,069.2
1988          2,054.1           1,407 1
1989          2,085.4           1,603.4
1990          2,012.0           1,494.1
1991          2,673.8           1,835.4
1992          2,626.5           1,910.2 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
i are (a)                  =     0.0247 acres
1 hectare (ha)             =     2.47 acres
i kilometer (km)           =     0.62 miles
I square kilometer (km=)   =     0.39 square mile
i kilogram (kg)            =     2.20 pounds
i liter (I)                =     0.26 US gallon
0.22 Imperial gallon
i ton (t)                  =     2,204 pounds
ACRONYMS
ATIA I       First Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project
ATIA II      Second Agricultural Institutions Project
ASAC         Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
FOFIFA       Center for Agricultural and Rural Development Research
IRNT         Natural Resources Unit of the Ministry of Research
MPAEF        Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Fisheries
MPARA        Ministry of Agriculture
MRSTD        Ministry of Research
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Period averages not yet available; exchange rate is for end of year.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 17, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Madagascar
Second Agricultural Institutions Project (ATIA I) (Credit 1709-MAGj
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Second Agricultural Institutions Project (ATIA
II) (Credit 1709-MAG) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the
Borrower.
The operation was not actually a "project" but a complex "umbrella credit" which financed
39 different technical assistance activities executed by three ministries and two agencies. Since many
of the most important activities were properly implemented and led to outcomes of good quality
(including the basis for two subsequent IDA-supported Credits), the operation is rated as satisfactory
and sustainable, and the institutional development impact is rated as substantial.
Not all aspects of the operation were successful. Some activities faced important difficulties
in implementation, when the technical assistance provided was not clearly related to the work
program and goals of the beneficiary units or when volume overwhelmed units' capacity to select
consultants, supervise them, and make use of their output.
A commendable aspect of the operation was its spare use of covenants, with reliance on
annual work programs as a more flexible project implementation instrument.
The PCR is complete and informative. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorkzation.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
SECOND AGRICULTURAL INSTrITONS PROJECT (ATIA IT)
(CREDIT 1709-MAG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  ....................................................    i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .........................................  iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  IDA'S PERSPECTIVE  ...................  1
Project Identity .............................................   I
Project Background ..........................................   1
Project Objectives and Description  ................................   2
Project Design and Organization ..................................  4
Project Implementation ........................................  5
Project Results ......................................... 6
Project Sustainability.            .........................................  7
IDA Performance . ................................... 7
Borrower Performance .................................... 8
Project Relations . ................................... 9
Consulting Services .................................... 9
Project Documentation and Data ..................................   9
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM THE BORROWERS' PERSPECTIVE  ...                        ......  10
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ............                  ..      ................   16
Table 1: Related IDA Credits ..................................   16
Table 2: Project Timetable ....................................   17
Table 3: Disbursements and Financing .............................   18
Table 4: Studies  ..........................................   20
Table 5: Compliance with the Credit Agreement ......................   21
Table 6: Use of IDA Resources .................................   22
MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MADAGASCAR
SECOND AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS PROJECT (CREDIT 1709-MAG)
PROJECT COMIPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
Attached is the Project Completion Report for the Second Agricultural Institutions Project for
which Credit 1709-MAG, in the amount of SDR 8.7 million (US$10.0 million equivalent), was
approved on June 10, 1986.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1992, two years behind schedule. 2/ The last
disbursement was on MIay 5, 1993, at which time the undisbursed balance in the amount of SDR 1.07
million (US$1.5 million equivalent) was cancelled.
The report was prepared by the Agricultural Operations Division of the South-Central and
Indian Ocean Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). This report is based, inter
alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence, and the mid-term evaluation report. The Borrower's comments are presented in Part
II.
2/    The credit closed on June 30, 1991 for all categories of disbursement, except for
categories l.a and 3.a through c. The closing date for these categories was extended
to December 31, 1992.






iii
MADAGASCAR
SECOND AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS PROJECT (CREDIT 1709-NIAG)
PROJECT CONIPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Background
1.    At the time the project was appraised, in 1985, Madagascar was emerging from a decade of
ill-conceived economic dirigism and mismanagement.  An adjustment program had begun the
necessary macroeconomic reforms, which initially concentrated on demand management. By 1985
the focus was shifting to supply side adjustment with a program supporting economic liberalization
and improved public sector management. In the agriculture sector, the government's program was
to promote private, smallholder production within a market economy and to support this production
with improved public investment in infrastructure and essential public services, notably research and
extension.
2.    The credit for the First Agricultural Institutions Project (ATIA I; Cr. 1249-MAG) became
effective in 1982 and was substantially completed by 1985. Its objective was to support the nascent
reform program in agriculture. Project activities concentrated on strengthening sectoral planning,
improving parastatal management, and reorganizing and strengthening producer services. The Project
Completion Report found that ATIA I had been instrumental in preparing the liberalization of the
agricultural economy and in creating tools for public resource management. Project implementation
was, however, often difficult as it relied on a process of change that had both political and technical
dimensions, and which depended on astute deployment of technical assistance.
Objectives
3.    The objectives of ATIA II, framed within the overall sector strategy, were: (a) to improve
the management of the most important agricultural institutions - the Ministry of Agriculture
(MPARA), and the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Fisheries (MPAEF); (b) to help these two
Ministries use scant resources efficiently; (c) to build up planning capacity and help develop specific
operational strategies for important public services (agricultural extension and research); and (d) to
develop capacity in policy and economic analysis. These objectives were specifically linked to the
reform program undertaken by the Government, which was supported by the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1691-MAG), which was approved on May 8, 1986.
Implementation
4.     Most activities in MPARA were implemented as planned. Activities in support of MPAEF
started in 1985, but came to a halt in 1987 when MPAEF entered a period of internal crisis where
goals were not clear and management deteriorated. A consultant report following an internal audit
in 1990/91 was ignored. Activities in support of extension and research were efficiently carried out,
except for a natural resources inventory, which was delayed because of managerial problems. The
inventory was carried out with the help of primarily local consultants.



iv
5.     Actual project costs are estimated at US$11.8 million versus US$12.8 million planned.
Financing was provided by the Government of Madagascar (US$1.2 million actual versus US$2.3
million planned), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID; US$0.5 million
actual, same as planned) and IDA (US$10.1 million actual versus US$10.0 million planned).
Results
6.    In MPARA, the project achieved many of its objectives, notably in improving systems for
investment programming, managing financial resources, personnel management and information
management, and in developing a pilot for a national extension program (supported by the
Agricultural Extension Pilot Project, Cr. 2150-MAG). Support to parastatal reform, with financing
from the United States Agency for International Development, resulted in some privatisations and
restructuring.
7.     Less impact was obtained in project monitoring and economic analysis as the units responsible
had difficulties in clearly defining objectives and fulfilling their complex task due to lack of qualified
expertise and adequate incentives. The training program was unsatisfactory due to lack of a training
plan with clearly-defined objectives. It consisted mainly of overseas training courses, which were
proposed individually by each service, in lieu of a coordination body empowered to decide on priority
needs for the Ministry, which would have made training more relevant to its development goals.
8.    MPARA staff have mastered some of the computer-based systems introduced by consultants
(notably those related to personnel and financial management), but are not manipulating others with
much ease (primarily those related to project monitoring and economic analysis). However, the gains
are fragile. Lack of hands-on computer experience makes it vital that systems be simple and easily
mastered. In retrospect, it would have been preferable to have labored longer on the development
of simpler systems while simultaneously trying to improve the quality of field data.
9.     Within MPAEF, internal problems prevented implementation of the project for three years
and when a part was implemented, not much time was left for execution. However, the project was
seen as helpful by officials who took office in 1990.
10.   Activities in support of research resulted in a major reorganization of the Center for
Agricultural and Development Research (FOFIFA) and multi-donor support for the research program
(supported by the National Agricultural Research Project, Cr. 2042-MAG, approved on June 15,
1989).
11.   The natural resource inventory activities achieved their objectives and contributed substantially
to the strengthening of local expertise.
Sustainability
12.   The results of three important project activities are likely to be sustained: the research and
extension programs, and the natural resource inventory and capability building program (a second
phase will probably be financed by another donor). For the management systems and procedures,
their sustainability will only be known in the future. The chances of sustainability are highest where
local staff were sufficiently associated in their development, and feel they have mastered the
techniques and can modify them as needed, such as the financial management and investment
programming techniques. Less likely to be sustainable are the procedures introduced for personnel
management, economic study methods and project monitoring techniques. However, the overall



V
picture regarding sustainability within MPARA will only be known once decisions have been made
on its priorities, strategy and future organization, which will determine the implementation of the
various systems and processes that the project has helped to develop.
Lessons Learned
13.    The lessons from this project can be summarized as follows:
-      The project was too complex. Design should be kept as simple as possible and
project cost should be reasonable in relation with local agencies' budgets;
-      In order for changes in procedures to be acceptable, they must be simple, adaptable
and well understood by local staff;
The use of technical assistants should be limited to the ability of agencies to supervise
them (para 1 1. 1) and where possible, local staff or consultants should be used. More
focused use of technical assistants saves substantial resources and enables institution
building and the transfer of expertise;
Although there were few covenants in the Development Credit Agreement for this
project, this has not harmed its performance. In fact, project control and monitoring
through a boilerplate covenant for annual work programs has shown to be a more
flexible and efficient instrument for project implementation than the use of specific
covenants (para. 4.5);
The success of a wide ranging TA project depends crucially on whether the services
receiving it have clear overall priorities and a commitment to those priorities. In
agencies with such commitment, the project was successful with sustained results;
where the commitment did not exist or disappeared, the project failed;
The project should have been supported through adequate documentation. There was
no preparation report, appraisal report or technical annexes, only a four-page
description in the President's Report. As time went on and staff changed, it became
very difficult to understand either the rationale or even the intended content of the
project;
Objectives of the project were too ambitious. Proposals for restructuring a Ministry
should have been made in line with the general policy of the Government. It
appeared unrealistic to propose, for example, implementing a management-
decentralized structure and/or a sector retrenchment plan, when the Government was
still unclear on these issues; and
Since the project focussed on institutional issues, it was essential that a strong
commitment had been made by the Government on the main orientations of the
reform, and that a strategy statement seen satisfactory to both parties had been
included in the Development Credit Agreement.






I
MADAGASCAR
SECOND AGRICULTURAL INSTITrTIONS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1709-MAG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Name:               Second Agricultural Institutions Project
Credit Number:      Cr. 1709-MAG
RVP Unit:           Africa
Department:          South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Country:             Madagascar
Sector:             Agriculture
2.    Project Background
2.1    Macroeconomic and Sectoral Background. At the time the project was appraised in 1985,
Madagascar was emerging from a decade of ill-conceived economic dirigism and mismanagement.
An adjustment program had begun the necessary macroeconomic reforms, which initially concentrated
on demand management. By 1985 the focus was shifting to supply side adjustment with a program
supporting economic liberalization and improved public sector management. In the agriculture sector,
the government's program was to promote private, smallholder production within a market economy
and to support this production with improved public investment in infrastructure and essential public
services, notably research and extension.
First Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project (ATIA I; Cr. 1249-MAG)
2.2    The credit for ATIA I became effective in 1982 and the project was substantially completed
by 1985. Its objective was to support the nascent reform program in agriculture by providing analytic
tools to decision makers, and to begin the process of rehabilitating run-down agricultural institutions.
Project activities concentrated on strengthening sectoral planning, improving parastatal management,
and reorganizing and strengthening producer services. The Project Completion Report found that
ATIA I had been catalytic in beginning the liberalization of the agricultural sector and in fashioning
instruments for public resource management. Project implementation was, however, often difficult
as it relied on delicate management of a process of change that had both political and technical
dimensions, and which depended on astute deployment of technical assistance. In addition, potential
advances at the sectoral level were menaced by an unfriendly environment, for example lack of
resources to create motivation or operatidnal efficiency within the civil service. Overall, ATIA I
played an invaluable part in the process of adjustment and had a beneficial impact on key public
resource management functions for the sector.



3.     Project Objectives and Description
3.1    Project Objectives. The objectives of ATIA II, framed within the overall sector strategy,
were: (a) to improve the management of the most important agricultural institutions - the Ministry
of Agriculture (MPARA), and the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Fisheries (MPAEF); (b) to
help these two Ministries use scant resources efficiently; (c) to build up planning capacity and help
develop specific operational strategies for important public services (agricultural extension and
research); and (d) to develop capacity in policy and economic analysis. These objectives were
specifically linked to the reform program undertaken by the Government, supported by the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1691-MAG), which was approved on May 8, 1986.
3.2    Project Components. The project comprised 37 activities to help develop human resources,
systems and specific products in five institutions responsible for policy analysis and public services
in agriculture.
1.     For NIPARA, the overall objectives were to set priorities, improve human and
financial resources management, strengthen monitoring and analytical capabilities,
and resolve some basic operational issues (notably organization of agricultural
extension services on a national basis). The project activities (19) were grouped as
follows:
(a)    Support monitoring and evaluation, public investment programming and
parastatal reform;
(b)    Assist in monitoring financial resource flows;
(c)    Improve personnel management;
(d)    Develop computer planning and information management;
(e)    Carry out a training program for managers;
(f)    Conduct sector studies, including a fertilizer study;
(g)    Design a national extension system; and
(h)    Bolster MPARA's economic and policy analysis capability.
2.     For MIPAEF, priorities were to streamline essential services and make them efficient,
to bring financial resources into line with operational needs by restructuring
personnel, and to strengthen programming and analytical capabilities. The nine
project activities were to:
(a)    Strengthen project preparation;
(b)    Support project monitoring and evaluation;
(c)    Restructure and reform parastatals;
(d)    Improve finance and accounting systems;



3
(e)    Strengthen personnel management;
(f)    Develop a medium-term computer and information plan;
(g)    Plan and execute training programs for Ministry managers and staff;
(h)    Develop an improved system for maintaining and managing the vehicle fleet;
and
(i)    Support economic and sector studies in order to improve policy and
economic analysis.
3.     For the Center for Agricultural and Rural Development Research (FOFIFA) under
the Ministry of Research (MRSTD), objectives were to define long-term agricultural
research priorities, to design an efficient and sustainable agricultural research system,
and to prepare and strengthen FOFIFA for carrying out the agreed national
agricultural research strategy. The project activities (7) were grouped as follows:
(a)    Reinforce financial management and research management;
(b)    Train FOFIFA staff in research and station management, and in specific
skills like test design, sampling methods and statistical analysis;
(c)    Prepare a complete inventory of past research results;
(d)    Prepare an international symposium on agricultural research in Madagascar;
(e)    Prepare a long-term master plan for agricultural research; and
(f)    Prepare a research project to execute the first five year tranche of the master
plan.
4.     For the Natural Resources Unit (IRNT) under MRSTD, the objective was to develop
an information base on natural resources. Conceived as a first phase of a long-term
program, the project was to support:
(a)    collection and analysis of existing information;
(b)    preparation of inventories (maps and supporting documentation) for land and
water resources and for current land-use patterns; and
(c)    training of national staff.
5.     For the Ministry of Finance, the project was to provide logistical support and
technical assistance to processes agreed under the ASAC to improve public sector
resource management.



4
4.     Project Design and Organization
4.1    The project was born out of ATIA I and was designed to be the natural continuation of the
earlier project. However, new institutions participated in ATIA II and many new activities were
added. Indeed, at the time of appraisal, ATIA II was seen as an "umbrella project' sheltering a
number of independent programs to be implemented by different institutions.  At negotiations,
Government had produced a program showing the underlying coherence of project activities around
broad themes of institutional development, resource management and sectoral analysis and planning.
However, negotiations appear to have been the only occasion on which Government ever came near
to having a grasp of the whole project. Even within individual institutions, the number of disparate
activities made it hard for staff to grasp the objectives. In MPARA and MPAEF only one or two
very senior staff even understood the project. The project lacked any underlying unity that could
have guided and motivated the people who were supposed to implement it.
4.2    MIany components placed too great a demand on scarce management time and skills. They
were designed as processes, with summarily defined objectives and built-in flexibility. This created
a need for scrupulously careful management and monitoring. The magnitude of this challenge was
not grasped by the institutions concerned. The components that did best were those where decision-
makers understood and wanted the product, and where technical staff understood and subscribed to
the objective and had the skills and resources to produce it.  Examples are MPARA's public
investment program, the research master plan and the National Agricultural Research Project (Cr.
2042-MAG), the Agricultural Extension Pilot Project (Cr. 2150-MAG), and the natural resource
inventory.
4.3    There was too great a provision for technical assistance - two-thirds of project funds were for
consultants. The institutions concerned were poorly-equipped for finding the right consultants and
in many cases never worked out a satisfactory method of supervising their work, nor a lasting
institution-building impact in the form of transfer of usable systems and expertise. In fact, project
design could have been improved by less reliance on consultants and more emphasis on self-help.
For example, the project had provided for turn-key execution of the natural resource inventory by
consultants. Design was amended during execution to provide for building up local capacity, with
minimal use of consultants. As a result, the inventory is being successfully completed, a year later
than planned but at a lower cost and with a measurable institution-building impact.
4.4    The project was too big in relation to local financial resources. Planned disbursements from
the credit were about equivalent to MPARA's total non-personnel operating budget from domestic
resources. This created distortions in motivation - a false priority to project actions and a preference
for project financed equipment and trips rather than real commitment to project activities. In some
cases, Government was unable to come up with adequate counterpart funding, and the Development
Credit Agreement was revised to allow IDA to finance a larger share of project costs.
4.5    Legal covenants were very few. During preparation, more extensive use of covenants had
been proposed to assure satisfactory implementation conditions for staffing, organization, budget, etc.
In the event it was the annual work program mechanism which was used to verify these conditions,
and this was certainly the right approach. The covenants would have been unpalatable, unwieldy and
quickly outdated.



5
5.     Project Implementation
5.1    The credit became effective on February 3, 1987; a delay of about ten weeks caused by time
consum.ng bureaucratic procedures. The credit closed on December 31, 1992, after three extensions. 2I
Disbursements slowed down after an initially promising start because of delays in implementing the
MPAEF component and because of cumbersome local procurement procedures.  The last
disbursement took place on May 5, 1993, at which time the undisbursed balance in the amount of
SDR 1.07 million (US$1.5 million equivalent) was cancelled. Actual project costs are estimated at
US$11.8 million (US$12.8 million planned). Financing was provided by the Government of
Madagascar in the amount of US$1.2 million (US$2.3 million planned), by the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID) in the amount of US$0.5 million (US$0.5 million planned)
and by IDA in the amount of US$10.1 million (US$10.0 million planned).
5.2    Most activities in MPARA were implemented as planned. The exceptions were: a food crops
study, which was included after appraisal (The funds were used to finance a rice markets study at the
end of the project period); a fertilizer study, which was financed instead by a USAID grant; support
to the Food Security Department, where IDA and MPARA did not agree on the activities to be
supported; and activities in support of extension, which were revised to support implementation of
a pilot project on a bigger scale than foreseen. This change of pace on extension successfully resulted
in a free-standing extension project financed by IDA (Agricultural Extension Pilot Project, Cr. 2150-
MAG, approved on May 31, 1990).
5.3    MPAEF began implementation of the project with PPF financing in 1985, but subsequently
entered a period of internal crisis where structure, objectives and staffing were not clear and
management deteriorated. Implementation of ATIA II in MPAEF was virtually suspended until 1990,
when a large consultant contract was let for an institutional audit. The consultants concluded that a
reorganization was the essential preliminary to institutional strengthening. The consultants' analysis
was disputed by MPAEF and the recommendations and the originally planned activities were not
implemented.
5.4    Activities in support of research were carried out efficiently and resulted in a major
reorganization of FOFIFA and effective multi-donor support (including IDA) for the research
program (National Agricultural Research Project, Cr. 2042-MAG, approved on June 15, 1989).
5.5    The natural resource inventory was executed in a different way from that foreseen at
appraisal. IRNT took two years to take root as an institution and had persistent management
problems, but ended up doing a good job technically. At the end of the project, the foundation had
been laid for a pernanent national capacity.
5.6    The planned activities at the Ministry of Finance were carried out, in a different way, under
projects supported by other donors.
5.7    Deviations from plan are to be expected in a project of this nature, and the annual work
program mechanism was designed to give the necessary flexibility during implementation. This
system worked fairly well. The programs proved useful budgeting tools. They were less useful in
3/    The credit closed on June 30, 1991 for all categories of disbursement, except for
categories l.a and 3.a through c. The closing date for these categories was extended
to December 31, 1992.



6
providing a qualitative evaluation of performance. However, submission of annual work programs
and subsequent IDA approval was always behind schedule. The risk of institutional change that
prevented the MPAEF activities from being implemented was correctly identified at appraisal. In the
case of MPAEF, the annual work program mechanism was used, as foreseen at appraisal, to defer
implementation until conditions improved.
5.8    The sustained political and technical commitment required in an institution building project
was not always available. This was clearly the case in MPAEF, and for some activities within
MPARA. Managers were not able to give time to consultant supervision, so that the product was
sometimes below standard or consultants worked in isolation from local staff or without clear
objectives. Staff were either too busy or lacked clear work unit goals that they could relate to the
assistance being provided. Perhaps most importantly, both MPARA and MPAEF lost some of their
strategic vision during the project period. If it was clear where the Ministries were heading - and
why in 1985, it was less so in 1990. The project did support a redefinition of roles and priorities
in 1989-91 for both MPARA and MPAEF but this process has not yet produced a clear plan and has
been disrupted by political events.
6.     Project Results
6.1   In MPARA, the project achieved important objectives, notably in improving systems for
investment programming, managing financial resources, personnel and information management, and
in developing an effective pilot for a national extension program (para. 5. 1). Support to parastatal
reform (with parallel financing from USAID) resulted in some privatisations and restructuring.
6.2    Less impact was obtained in project monitoring and economic analysis as the units responsible
had difficulties in clearly defining objectives and fulfilling their complex task due to lack of qualified
expertise and inadequate incentives. In spite of important and costly efforts provided by national staff
and consultants in defining a new structure of organization and working procedures for MPARA, no
decision was taken to implement them, due to the adverse political and social environment that has
been prevailing since 1991. The training program was unsatisfactory due to the lack of a training
plan with clearly-defined objectives. The program consisted mainly of overseas training courses,
which were proposed individually by each service, in lieu of a coordination body empowered to
decide on priority needs to make training more relevant to its development goals.
6.3    MPARA staff have mastered some of the computer-based systems introduced by consultants
(primarily those related to personnel management) but are not manipulating others with much ease
(primarily those related to production and project analysis). The gains in the latter cases are fragile.
Lack of hands-on computer experience makes it vital that systems be simple and easily mastered.
In retrospect, it would have been preferable to have labored longer on the development of simpler
systems while simultaneously trying to improve the quality of field data.
6.4   In MPAEF, the project had virtually no impact on strengthening the institution, as the
consultants' analysis was not accepted by some key high-level staff members (who were displaced
later in 1990). Since then there has been some progress made in implementing the component, but
the impact was not important in restructuring MPAEF due to the fact that the Ministry itself was
divided into two Ministries for political reasons (the Ministry of Water Resources and Forestry and
the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries).
6.5    The research and natural resource inventory activities achieved their objectives.



7
6.6    Overall, the impact of the project has been satisfactory. Two solid programs within a
producer services strategy have been produced - for extension and research - and a prime planning
tool prepared - the natural resource inventory. In MPARA there has been a qualitative improvement
in resource management. The foundations of a national capacity in photo-interpretation and resource
mapping have been laid.
7.     Project Sustainability
7.1    Three major project activities are likely to be durable - the research and extension programs
4/, and the natural resource inventory and capability building program (a second phase will likely
be financed by another donor). For the management systems and procedures, their sustainability will
only be known in the future. The chances of sustainability are highest where local staff were
sufficiently associated in development to feel they have mastered the techniques and can modify them
as needs change. At MPARA, the work done by consultants has been appropriated by Ministry
personnel to varying degrees. The most successful are the financial and personnel management, and
investment programming techniques. Staff were fully involved in participating in and/or conducting
the related operations, as consultants in most cases played the role of a coordinator or a facilitator.
Less successful have been economic study methods and project monitoring techniques. As to the
restructuring of MPARA, a decision on implementing the consultants' proposals has been pending.
(However, the true picture regarding sustainability within MPARA will only be known once a
decision has been made on future priorities, strategy and organization, and on the place of the various
systems and processes that ATIA II has helped to put in place).
8.    IDA Performance
8.1    At appraisal, the complexity of the project was recognized and a supervision time allocation
of 24-30 weeks a year was suggested. However, this proved unrealistic and actual allocations were
of the order of 11-12 weeks, no more than for a standard project. Within this constraint, IDA made
every effort to respond to project needs. Supervision was delegated to the Resident Mission which
allowed regular consultation as issues arose, and permitted in-field supervision of consultant progress.
It did, however, not prevent a lack of progress on the development of a training management system.
Specialist expertise in research, extension, public administration, finance, computers and teledetection
was fielded at key points and contributed materially to shaping the project and helping
implementation.  Flexibility was shown in the light of changing needs, regarding content,
implementation and financing mechanisms and timetables. The weakness of delegating supervision
to the Resident Mission was that the project was not well enough known at headquarters and was
poorly integrated into IDA sector strategy.
4/    Implementation of the projects in support of these programs (i.e. the National
Agricultural Research Project, Cr. 2042-MAG, and the Agricultural Extension Pilot
Project, Cr. 2150-MAG) has encountered difficulties, primarily because of inadequate
counterpart funding.



8
9.     Borrower Performance
9.1    ATIA II attracted strong commitment from a handful of senior officials within MPARA and
these officials invested heavily in coordination and contacts with IDA. Commitment at the technical
level was variable, dependent on the clarity with which work unit objectives were defined and the
perception of ATIA II's relevance to internal priorities. (Commitment at decision-making level was
uncertain towards the end of the project; it was not clear that successive new Ministers accepted the
improved resource management systems as decision-making tools.)
9.2    Within MPAEF, internal problems prevented implementation of the project for three years
and when parts were implemented, insufficient time was left for execution.  The project was,
however, seen as helpful by officials who took office in 1990.
9.3    FOFIFA fully adopted the project as its own and completely identified with both process and
product. IRNT suffered protracted birth pangs and ownership was in doubt. Once the institution
building activities began to take shape and technical performance was good, MRSTD fully adopted
the project.
9.4    The  least satisfactory aspect of borrower's performance was the emphasis on equipment
purchase and overseas training that emerged, sometimes independent of project objectives.
Particularly where project objectives were vaguely defined, no longer relevant or poorly appropriated
by officials, ATIA II was seen simply as a source, in the resource-poor environment of the Malagasy
civil service, of funding for acquisitions and trips.
9.5    This distortion of motivation in a resource-poor environment reflects a fundamental, structural
problem that the appraisal mission identified - how can an external project help effect lasting
institutional change in a poorly structured, underdeveloped, demotivating civil service environment?
This problem became more pronounced during implementation as public sector budgets and salaries
shrank in real terms. One supervision report summed up the general culture within MPARA:
-      Prevalent sense of impotence, stemming from  the annihilatingly low levels of
personal remuneration and operating budget, and from the suffocating mantle of civil
service regulations.
-      Lack of sense of purpose, arising from lack of an overall strategy. Many services
no longer fit, or feel they no longer fit, with the current economic situation or with
the role of the Ministry, yet they have no other instructions. Hence they lapse into
routine and submerge themselves in comforting detail.
-      Uncertainty created by erratic management style, of which the worst aspects are
unpredictability and lack of delegation.
Lack of an open culture. Retention of information by units is a defense of their
territory, an assertion of power, an attempt to define a place in an unstable and
enfeebling environment.
Within these constraints, the successful units were those that had an overall strategy that defined and
justified their existence and function, and that had within the unit, a clear conception of unit goals
and a commitment to those goals. Other features that characterized successful units were interest



9
from line management and, preferably, from outside agencies in the product of the unit; and access
to some supplementary resources.
10.   Project Relations
10.1  IDA stayed in close touch with project agencies throughout and many problems were resolved
through the regular contacts made possible by Resident Mission supervision.  This allowed a
flexibility invaluable in a project of this nature. The disadvantage was that it led to a large number
of ad hoc requests, notably for training. This was not only inefficient but probably impeded the
development of the intended training management systems.
10.2  IDA cooperated with USAID in supervision of the USAID financed component of the project
(parastatal reform).
I1.   Consulting Services
11.1   Consultants played a large role in the project and had their greatest impact where they played
a supporting role in a well-defined and nationally-managed activity. Agencies had difficulty in
choosing the right consultants and in supervising them. MPARA ended up using repeater contracts
with those firms that had worked well in the early stages. In two cases, this was relatively successful
in assuring continuity and responsibility and in building up good relationships. In a third case, the
firm made less effort and work was of poor quality. MPAEF failed to find a means of managing the
large consultancy it undertook in 1990 and the consultants proved to lack experience in dealing with
institutions like MPAEF. MRSTD, FOFIFA and IRNT used consultants sparingly and only to
support strong national teams and thus achieved good results. It is not possible to get the required
information on the actual number of man-months of consultant time used under the project.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1   The project was conceived as a series of processes and prepared through dialogue. Although
this gave great scope for flexibility and creativity, it should have been supported by adequate
documentation. In fact there was no preparation report, no appraisal report or technical annexes,
only a four-page description in the President's Report, and voluminous cost tables. As time went on
and staff changed, it became very difficult to understand either the rationale or even the intended
content of the project.



10
MADAGASCAR
SECOND AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS PROJECT (ATIA 11)
(CREDIT 1709-NIAG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWERS' PERSPECTIVE
COMNIENTS BY THE MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCK AND FISHERIES 5/
ON THE DRAFT PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT OF
THE SECOND AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS PROJECT (ATIA II)
This follows up on the draft report by the OED audit mission and the project
completion report on the ATIA 1I project, whose contents came to my attention, and the very
practical discussions that took place with Mr. Tran-Luu. 6/
I would like to thank you again for the interest that you and your staff have shown
in the institutional and organizational problems in my department.
In this context, and without prejudice to any future decisions by the Bank, let me
draw your attention to the following matter, which in my view is of fundamental importance and
which in general terms one might assume should have been resolved, namely our management
capacity and our readiness to undertake the reorganizations and changes required once the external
funding is no longer available.
From January 1993 onwards, for the next five years, my department will be required
to manage five projects in the livestock sub-sector, for a total amount of more than US$70 million.
Each project and each component has its own organization and financing system. In
light of the difficulties and complexity surrounding each entity, my department has established, at the
Bank's suggestion at the time of appraisal of the Livestock Sector Project (Cr. 2243-MAG), a
Livestock Sector Program Coordinating Committee. This Committee, bringing together the project
managers and the various donors, has an executive office or unit known as the "Steering Group."
This Steering Group will be responsible for overseeing the smooth progress of
activities in each project and also flows of funds. It will in addition ensure the harmonization of
operations and the consistency of decisions.
5/     Under the present structural arrangement, the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and
Fisheries (MPAEF) is divided into two: the Ministry of Water Resources and
Forestry (MEF) and the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries (MERH).
Consultant for IDA in the December supervision mission.



11
The Coordinating Committee and Steering Group are located within this Ministry so
as to ensure that each entity does not engage in a multiplicity of operations independent of others.
Appropriately, each project or sub-project includes a "training' component designed
to enhance the technical skills of the agents working for the program. This is not yet true, however,
as regards the ministry itself, which is responsible for coordination; here there is an urgent need for
organization, methods, systems and procedures that will generate performance charts to facilitate
decisions. Specialized technical assistance is planned for this purpose.
Nonetheless, it will not be possible for ministry staff to be involved in the
introduction and operation of such a system unless they have been trained beforehand. It is for this
reason that I regard it as essential to propose the establishment of a "management training'
component to complement the activities of the livestock sector program. This training would enable
local personnel to manage coordination activities, particularly in the areas of financial management
of projects and the programming of investments in financial supervision, monitoring and evaluation
and human resources.
In this way they could enhance their contacts with service providers and extend the
methods and systems inherited from the consultants on their departure.



12
COMMENTS BY THE MINISTRY OF WATER RESOURCES AND FORESTRY 7/
ON THE DRAFT PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT OF
THE SECOND AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS PROJECT (ATIA 11)
1.    GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS
1. 1   The basic purpose of the Agricultural Institutions Project was to strengthen the capacity of
the operational departments of the NMinistry of Livestock, Forestry and Fisheries (MPAEF) in the
areas of planning, economic studies, project preparation and financial and human resource
management, and also to develop, in the medium term, an information and data processing system,
and to strengthen management resources.
1.2    The credit for ATIA II, which was signed on August 1986, was closed on December 31,
1991, one year behind schedule. 8/ While waiting for the Credit (1709-MAG) to become effective,
MPAEF embarked on the program in 1985, with a PPF advance of US$350,000. Implementation
of ATIA 11 began in 1987 but did not, in practice, reach full development until 1990.
1.3    The draft Project Completion Report on ATIA 11 sent to the Malagasy Government paints a
particularly negative picture of MPAEF's performance, without clearly identifying the grounds for
such a conclusion.
1.4    While it is true that implementation of components related to MPAEF was considerably
delayed for administrative and institutional reasons, the World Bank's Project Completion Report
cannot accurately state, without proper justification, that the project had virtually no impact on
MPAEF. It would seem that the author of the report based his analysis on the situation that prevailed
mid-way through the project and, more specifically, prior to the period when project activities, as
revised in 1989, were implemented.
1.5    Some frank clarification is needed for a better understanding of the project's progress and
results.
2.  PROBLEMS AND CONSTRAINTS ENCOUNTERED
2.1    Several problems and constraints were encountered during project implementation. There was
a considerable delay in the start-up of the second phase because of administrative and institutional
reasons.
7/     Under the present structural arrangement, the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and
Fisheries (MPAEF) is divided into two: the Ministry of Water Resources and
Forestry (MEF) and the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries (MERH).
8/    The disbursement categories related to MPAEF were closed effective December 31,
1991. A retro-active extension to June 30, 1992 was given to allow for final
disbursements.



13
Nonexistence of preparatory documentation
2.2    The lack of agreed minutes of negotiation or a report made it difficult to evaluate the Annual
Work Programs. The Development Credit Agreement does not, in fact, contain any details of the
costs and activities entailed in each component of the project.
Problems concerning the Mtinistry
2.3    The initial project design, prior to negotiations, was handled by teams who were no longer
in place by the time the Development Credit Agreement came into effect. The change-over in
personnel was apparently poorly handled and the new teams had difficulty entering into the spirit of
the project and devising the annual work programs and the terms of reference for the consultants.
2.4    Unlike the staff of the Technical Directorates (Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry), those in
the Directorate of Studies, Programming and Financing, who were asked to take charge of project
execution, generally lacked the professional training needed to be able to perform the functions
involved. The new staff should therefore first have been given additional training in planning and
programming as part of sessions held to bring the staff up to standard.
2.5    There also seems to have been insufficient information given to top Ministry officials,
explaining the rationale for and the objectives of the Project, to convince them of the activities
required and of the results expected.
Problerns concerning the World Bank
2.6    There were frequent changes in World Bank staff responsible for monitoring the project
between the time of project preparation and appraisal and the time of the negotiations and project
implementation.
2.7    These changes were particularly detrimental to the continuity of the monitoring of project
documents, but perhaps also to the spirit in which the monitoring was done. The delays in decision-
making related to bidding documents (importation of equipment and supplies, consulting services) and
approval of the annual work programs are indicative of this.
2.8    This was why the annual work programs for 1987 and 1988 could not be prepared on time.
In 1989 all these programs had to be changed, updated, re-discussed with the World Bank and then
finally approved.
2.9    After recommending, in 1988, that the support program  for the introduction of the
programming and budgeting system be adjusted in light of the findings of the evaluation carried out
by MPARA, the World Bank itself then questioned the adoption of this system as the result of an
evaluation mission in 1989.
Problems attributable to external factors
2.10   Certain factors not related to the Project itself thwarted the Ministry's implementation efforts:
regulations governing procurement procedures and public finance management. Compromises had
to be found between the legislation in effect in Madagascar and the World Bank's procedures
governing the hiring of consultants and the procurement of goods. Difficulties were encountered,



14
in particular, prior to the arrival of the Agricultural Country Officer assigned to the World Bank
Resident Mission.
3.     PROJECT EXECUTION
Training: courses and seminars
3.1    Various types of training were organized, both locally and abroad, for senior and support
staff of the Ministry. The training component enabled participants to:
-      further strengthen their knowledge and practical skills in terms of modern methods
and techniques of human and financial resource management, accounting and
budgetary supervision, development planning and project analysis;
-      expand their veterinary skills to include areas relating to epidemic disease;
-      intensify the strategic management of enterprises under the Ministry's supervision;
-      gain a better grasp of how to approach and monitor the execution of the public
investment program (PIP).
Missions
3.2    The senior management of the Department conducted two operational missions abroad in
response to invitations from the World Bank and the Indian Government:
-      a review of the cooperative programs between MPAEF and the World Bank;
-      field trips to India, with the participation of dairy sector entrepreneurs, as part of a
study trip of dairy producer associations.
3.3    The missions resulted in the strengthening of technical, economic and financial cooperation
between MPAEF and its international partners.
Technical assistance
3.4    The Ministry used the services of a consulting firm to give staff initial training in the methods
and techniques of project analysis and in how to conduct and monitor feasibility studies, as part of
the activities covered by the PPF advance.
3.5   In order to strengthen the activities of the various work units, the Ministry, with the
consultants' assistance, had the current situation analyzed by means of fact-finding missions, as a
result of which mission participants were able to identify areas of dysfunction and analyzed strengths
and weaknesses within the agencies targeted by the missions.
3.6    The task continues of taking the diagnostic study still further, by extending the analysis to all the
branches of the Ministry, at both the central and decentralized level, in keeping with MPAEF's role and
responsibilities.
---   -  ----



15
Goods
3.7    Goods acquired under ATIA 11 made it possible to replenish the resources available to the Ministry
and to improve the management of its various work units.
4.     CONCLUSIONS
4.1    Despite the difficult first few years of the project, the objectives established for the implementation
of ATIA II in MPAEF were fully accomplished, thanks to the extension of the closing date of the credit
to December 31, 1992, from 1990, as originally scheduled.
4.2    The challenge accepted when the program of activities was revised in 1990 was met.
4.3    The Project Completion Report sees the institutional change within MPAEF, the replacement of
certain project leaders, and the discussions with the consultants concerning the methodology used for
performing the actions required, as administrative weaknesses or failings.
4.4    All these measures were aimed at improving the structural organization of the work units as a
whole and at making sure that the various actions taken by the consultants yielded acceptable results, which
was the case in the end.
4.5    The mechanism for establishing the annual work programs was particularly responsible for delaying
implementation of ATIA II, for reasons originating in both the Ministry's work units and the World Bank.
4.6    The action taken in the course of this second phase made it possible to build on and strengthen the
gains of ATIA 1, particularly in terms of project planning and analysis, human and financial resource
management, and economic studies.



16
MADAGASCAR
SECOND AGRICULTURAL INSTITJTIONS PROJECT (ATIA II)
(CREDIT 1709-MAG)
PROJECT COMIPLETION REPORT
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related IDA Credits
Credit Tide                                                     Year of                            USS            Status
ApprovaJ                        (million)
Agricultural Credit Project                                     09/1980                           11.50           Closed
(Cr. 1064-MAG)                                                                                                    (12/31/86)
Second Mangoro Forestry Project                                 06/19S1                           20.00           Clo(ed
(Cr. 1161-MAG)                                                                                                    (06/30/87)
Second Village Livestock and Rural                              0219S2                           15.00           C1owd
Development Project (Cr. 1211-MAG)                                                                                (12t31/8S)
Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project          05/1982                            570            Closed
(Cr. 1249-MAG)                                                                                                    (06t30/87)
LAc AJaotra Rice Intensification Project                        03/1983                           18.00           Clo(3d
(Cr. 1337-MAG)                                                                                                    (03t31/91)
Cotton Development Project                                      IZV 1983                           7.90           Clowed
(Cr. 1433-MAG)                                                                                                    (06/30/91)
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project                               04t1985                           12.00           Ongoing
(Cr. 1589-NtAG)
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit                           05/1986                           20.00           Clo(ed
(Cr. 1691-MAG)                                                                                                    (06/30/90)
Second Agricultural Credit Project                              05/1987                           10.00           Ongoing
(Cr. 1804-MAG)
Forestry Management and Protection Project                      0211988                            7.00          Ongoing
(Cr. 1878-MAG)
National Agricultural Rerewch Project                           06/1989                           24.00          Ongoing
(Cr. 2042-MAG)
Environment Project                                             04/1990                           26.00          Ongoing
(Cr. 212.5-MAO)2.
Agricultural Extension Pilot Project                            05/1990                                          Ongoing
(Cr. 2150-MAG)



17
Table 2: Project Timetable
Original                                       Actual
Preparation                                                                                  1984/5
Appraisal Mislion                                                                            June, 1985
Negotiations                                                                                 March, 1986
Board Approval                                                                               June 10, 1986
Credit Signature                                                                             August IS, 1986
Credit Effectivencss                          November 18, 1986                              February 3, 1987
Credit Closing                                December 31, 1990                              December 31, 199229
LaSt Disbursement                             June 30, 1991                                  May 5, 1993
2/       By telex of July 13, 1992, the closing date was extended to December 31, 1992 for
disbursement categories l.a (for specific expenditures only) and 3.a-c.



18
Table 3: Disbursements and Financing
A. Estimated and Actual Cumulative Disbursements of Credit 1709-MAG
(US$ '000)
Fiscal Year         Appraisal Estimate             Actual 10/            Actual as % of Credit
1987                         1,000                        1,597                      16
1988                         3,800                       2,870                      29
1989                         7,000                       5,602                      56
1990                         9,400                       7,094                      71
1991                        10,000                       8,627                       86
1992                                                     9,580                      96
1993                                                     10,101                     101
Cancellation                                                 1,529
IO/     In SDR terms, only 88%  of the credit was disbursed. Discrepancies are due to US$
depreciation vis a vis its main trading partners.



19
B. Disbursements by Category of Cr. 1709-MAG
(SDR '000)
Original    Revised       Actuat      Actual as a
_1/            % of Revised
Estimate
1. MPARA
Consultants' Services and training under Part A(1) through (5) & (7)   2,390.0             2,390.0    2,272.4              95%
Equipment and vehicles uncder Part A(1) through (5) g (7)                       480.0        480.0        751.6           157%
ConsuLtants' services and training under Part A(6)                                           145.0        137.1            95%
Equipment and vehicles under Part A(6)                                                       145.0         71.1            49%
Incremental operating costs under Part A(6)                                                  130.0       109.6             84%
2. MPAEF
Consultants' services and training                                            1,300.0      1,300.0       985.5             76%
Equipment and vehicles                                                          220.0        220.0        235.8           107%
3. IRNT 2/
ConsuLtants' services and training                                             1140.0       1140.0        585.6            51%
Works' equipment and vehicles                                                   560.0        560.0        263.9            47%
Incremental operating costs                                                     250.0        250.0       626.5            251%
4. MPFE
ConsuLtants' services and training                                               140.0       140.0        152.6           109%
Equipment                                                                        30.0         30.0         12.8            43%
5. MRSTD
Consultants' services and training                                              490.0        490.0        191.4            39%
Equipment and vehicles                                                           150.0       150.0        121.7            81%
Incremental operating costs                                                      32.0         32.0          0.0             0%
6. FOFIFA
Consultants' services and training                                              630.0        630.0        571.8            91%
Equipment and vehicles                                                             8.0         8.0         60.9           761%
7. Refunding of Project and Preparation Advance                                     760.0       421.0        420.8           100%
8. Unallocated                                                                      120.0         39.0        57.6           148%
TOTAL                                                                            8,700.0      8,700.0      7,628-5            88%
C. Proiect Financiny
Source                           Original                Actual               Actual as % of
(USS thousands)       (USS thousands)              Estimated
IDA                                   10,000                10,101                          101
USAID                                    500                   500                          100
Goverrnent                             2,300         1,200 Lt/                               52
12,800               11,800                            92
11/     On May 15, 1990, the disbursement percentage for IRNT was increased from  100%
of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures to 100% of expenditures.
12/      Revision effective on May 24, 1988.
13/      Estimate based on incomplete information.



20
Table 4: Studies 14/
Study                                       Consultant Bureau
Etude pour I'amelioration de la gestion des ressources humaines   Societe Conseil Maheu Noiseut
du Ministere de la Production agricole et du patrimoine foncier
Etude du marche du riz                                       Centre d'etudes et de recherche sur le
developpement international (CEDI)
Diagnostic approfondi du Ministere de la Production animale  Cabinet Mpanazava and Coopers and
(e1evage et peche) et des eaux et forets                     Lybrand
Etude de l'amelioration du reseau des pistes cafe robusta et  Societe d'6tudes techniques de l'Ocean
arabica                                                      Indien
Evaluation et amelioration des systemes de gestion et de     Cabinet d'audit et de conseil Rindra
comptabilite du Programme national de vulgarisation agricole
(PNVA)
Etude du systeme d'assiette et collecte de taxation et des   Cabinet Fivoarana
revenus par les collectivites decentralisees en vue de leur
amelioration
Inventaire des ressources naturelles terrestres              TAMS
Plan directeur des cultures d'exportation                    SCET Agri-BDPA and EEDR
Mamokatra
14/   The list of studies is based on documents available from files and may be incomplete.
The French titles of the studies have been maintained, because no formal translation
of these studies was undertaken.



21
Table 5: Compliance with the Credit Agreement
3.03        AnnuaL Work Programs to be subnitted each year    Condition met with delays up to and including
by Septeriber 30.                                      1990.  Prepared by MPAEF and IRNT for 1991.
Not prepared by MPARA for 1991.
3.04 (a)    FOFIFA staffing, budgets and research program          Condition met.
to be presented each year.
(b)    FOFIFA programs to be fully funded.                    Condition met.
3.05        Research Master Plan to be presented to                Condition met.
donors.                                                                                                    l
4.01 (a)   Accounts to be kept ...                                 Condition met.
(b)    ... and audited.  Report to furnished within           Condition met with del ays.
six months.
(c)    Statements of Expenditures to be accounted for    Condition met.
and audited separately.                              I



22
Table 6: Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle           FY83      FY84      FY85      FY86      FY87     FY88      FY89      FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    Total
Precaration                       0.1       0.6      32.3                                                                _                 33.0
Appraisal                                            15.2      46.5                             _      =                 =        =       61.7
Negotiations                                                   12.9                                                              _        12.9
SuDervision                                                              10 .7    12.4      10.3      10.2     9.4      3.5               56.5
Project Comrletion Repcort    _                                                              3.3                    _            6.1       9.4
Total                             0.1       0.6      47.5      59.4      10.7     12.4      13.6      10.2     9.4      3.5      6.1      173.5
B. Supervision Mission Information
Supervision     Month/       Number of          Specialization         Performance
Mission         Year        Persons            Represented              Rating
1 l         12186           1        Economist                         2
2           12187           4        Research Specialist            Note I
Financial Analyst
Extension Specialist
Tcledetection
3           08/88           3         Financial Analyst                2
Public Administrution
Teledetection
4           06/89           2         Financial Analyst                2
Teledetection
5           03/90           5        Financial Analyst                 2
Economist
Public Administration
Computer Specialist
Teledetection
6           04/91           3         Financial Analyst                2
Public Administration
Teledetection
Note 1:           Mission concentrated on research and extension components
and issued only BTOR, no updated Form 590.



IBRD 20035R
44*                                                                       A8
I?.                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12
Antsiranana
MADAGASCAR
P.o-d road,
Root., goodroonse
-AllIweorher roads                                                                                          -
Rout., ocesa,reJJo/  C toot. so,rom                                            NosYS r,                Amb lob.   
-Non-p.rnron.I roads                                                              H1-1a          4              4.        'Vet, marina
Ro -lrood-                                                                                 
CN.,ri  d      ..d,r                                                                       , Anban a
S/hUv-  ft lsre                                                                     ,-. E.C
H--.,      - -
69-o-           1        j;olime           - 4T
F-rre-y (prPo-rce) capitals                                          Atololeoo                    4                . ',     n   o
Cb./,.0 do Far,toy                                                        Anrsot,rr                           4 Andtp 
Fort-ny b6under,s                                                                    4.                      -               Antalaha
/,inrit.s a'., F-r,t-y,                                                             4 8.hodriono
I  -  t   I b . rd.,.
_I_i?ninor,,roln btouorrers                                                                       9    -                  -roher
Mahalonga                             Port
\                8~~~~erg.         \  Mondrirsoro,
Mtsinio                     --                               9+4.
4         ,oay                   Mompik0nt                 ;             .Mnovr
Wt-l~~~~0 
Ambotobo-yO           -   -
?-    I-                                              "                    1
0      Soorrerana-loorrgoi      NOSY
<8esolompy             hRMaoaevononae             43saretororo    . Sonaoolww                 NO
M.- t ...           And,merl                   -       AmbodRAHAotr
7   Ararorrene    '>%t FerFoarlis Atsinara-
Mo,n,troro                                               -                ^mb- jrAbatondr7].a
\               Ankorobet   Ar1o oroc                              Toamasina
Arrsoiovo               el                     /A h?orbo                        '>
04.                     4..Ar  oh,rr,i
Ts roqnorrond.dy                           TIi fl0fl100
. 4Aryoo rooird l   Moramongo 
.'             ~~~~Soo,,rardrloro             A,d,r,ao5,no         4.S Vororonadry
Maind  oazo                   Fara>S          ArrborOIErrrPt 0AriosibaarAIe
Be.o-sar.btrrr. h  -        ej                                                                  lpu6-.1
Antsirabe  4-.                                                                            20
*             -               \ .rM   ~~~~~~~~~~~.M,O  -6ba                                                  20'
~~~~~~~~Morodvg MoorroMarmony '-                {        Fa5dreono  ''.       /
A ,b.olo.   ndrror neo    A m bositra        '  N  o,yV.rik.
(                   ~~~~Arrboh,rrobosoo  /
M- ro                                                                        ManMnjnry
F,anarantsoa
Morernbeo \,nordoo                      8e oroofA bIvO
f  _              Ion\lk
04.   N>;            tobeoro                               'n alte
+                I~~~~ho,,  4                         M8naokera
-o, be
O<  , ovh b    tiVohsearo        KILOMETERS 0       So      1o0    IS0    200
Vondro-o. 0-     Farigena             MILES 0            50           I00
~Br . t,,g
Toliory                                                         a__________ ____
M'idong,      a     d                    ttS_  TANZANIA
9Bertok, -Sud                                Arsnre                                  I 
,.    )          '8         ,
rr.,24-                                                        B k2's 00         ,  ,                                                                    comoos
rrhumaputsteero,taco woeonx                      8 k I yaZAMEn                                                                  -    MIIL
rsaoifKOnEO.irio0ai                         4.  B                                                                      /          
~~ TSt /ne.oNton# F8,.CE   o                                                                                  I   t~M.-n,.,.
,seOaraPtrnrornomon,r              Ams snhe                                           '                                  ZIMBABWE O                 Ant-onn-
it., rio aoiog,ro4 ri to                                       ArtAoasary -      4-'                                      
ovrt r ire iStro 00 Hant anc h                                      Sodo    ~                                              S,       J
t eoncdCorpo,r                      --                                 Tolognaro
*On ,rioOinerC 0000 OO,, isi-el                                       Anrbeeenrb.                                          ,      \SOUTH
enaoi.e,ioriCio,-,rOitreil zAFR CAj
i(_(SWAZILAND
JUNE I1990



