FF1AL        CREDIT NUMBER 1709 MAG
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Agricultural Institutions Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                  A, 1986


﻿CKZDIT NUMBER 1709 NAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     /                        , 1986, between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the US Agency for
International Development (USAID) a grant in an amount of
$500,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and USAID; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the    context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2,02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated September 4, 1985,


﻿-2-
September 13, 1985, and October 22, 1985, between the Borrower
and the Association;
(c)   "MPFE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and
Economy;
(d) "MPARA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agricultural
Production and Agrarian Reform;
(e) "MPAEF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Livestock,
Fisheries and Forestry;
(f) "MRSTD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Scientific and
Technological Research; and
(g) "FOFIFA" means the National Center for Applied Research
on Rural Development.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 8,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain, in dollars, a special account in its Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.


﻿-3-
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1996, and ending May 15,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 2006 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A through E.3
of the Project through the respective Mini,'tries as indicated in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and shall cause FOFIFA to carry out
Parts E.4 through E.6 of the Project, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial  practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) By September 30 of each year of execution
of the Project, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association for approval annual work programs for MPARA, MPAEF,
XRSTD and MPFE setting forth the activities to be carried out
by any such Ministry in respect of the Project during the follow-
ing calendar year and a list of items to be financed under the
Credit. Such work programs to include a budget and to specify
the amount of the contribution needed from the Borrower for the
carrying out of such activities.
(b) By September 30 of each year of execution of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause FOFIFA to prepare and to
furnish to the Association for approval annual work programs
setting forth the activities to be carried out by FOFIFA in
respect of Parts E.4 through E.6 of the Project during the
following calendar year. Such work programs to include a budget
and to specify the amount of the contribution needed from the
Borrower for the carrying out of such activities.
Section 3.04. (a) By December 31 of each year of execution
of the Project, the Borrower shall cause FOFIFA to review with


﻿-5-
the Association: (i) the studies being carried out on its
staffing and the appropriateness of its field station network;
(ii) FOFIFA's budget; and (iii) proposals for the streamlining of
FOFIFA's research program.
(b) During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall
provide adequate funds to finance FOFIFA's research program and
FOFIFA's administrative budget.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, promptly upon preparation
of the agricultural research master plan: (i) submit all doeu-
ments relating to its implementation to the Association aha
national and international agencies interested in financing agri-
cultural research; and (ii) consult with the Association and such
agencies to coordinate the financing of the implementation of the
agricultural research master plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain through MPARA,
MPAEF, MRSTD and MPFE, and shall cause FOFIFA to maintain,
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall, and shall cause FOFIFA to:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and the audit thereof


﻿-6-
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall, and shall cause FOFIFA to:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after completion
of the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministgre aupras de la
Presidence de la Rfpublique
chargg des Finances et de 1'Economie
Antananarivo, Madagascar
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINFIN                               22489
Antananarivo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
B  Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDUILE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Ex-?ressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Part A of the
Project:
(a) Consultants'         2,390,000         100% of foreign
services and                          expenditures and
training                              80% of local
expenditures
(b) Equipment and          480,000         100% of foreign
vehicles                              expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(2) Part B of the
Project:
(a) Consultants'         1,300,000         100% of foreign
services and                          expenditures and
training                              80% of local
expenditures
(b) Equipment and          220,000         100% of foreign
vehicles                              expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(3) Part C of the
Project:
(a) Consultants'         1,140,000         100% of foreign
services and                          expenditures and
training                              80% of local
expenditures


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(b) W1jrks, equip-         560,000         100% of foreign
mInt and                              expenditures and
vo,hicles                             80% of local
expenditures
(c) Incremental            250,000         80% of local
operating                             expenditures
costs
(4) Part D of the
Project:
(a) Consultants'           140,000         100% of foreign
services and                          expenditures and
training                              80% of local
expenditures
(b) Equipment               30,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(5) Parts E.1 through
E.3 of the Project:
(a) Consultants'           490,000         100% of foreign
services and                          expenditures and
training                              80% of local
expenditures
(b) Equipment and          150,000         100% of foreign
vehicles                              expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(c) Incremental             32,000         80% of local
operating                             expenditures
costs


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6) Parts E.4 through
E.6 of the Project:
(a)  Consultants'          630,000         100% of foreign
services and                          expenditures and
training                              80% of local
expenditures
(b) Equipment and            8,000         100% of foreign
vehicles                              expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(7)  Refunding of               760,000         Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                               suant to Sec-
U,on Advance                               tion 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(8) Unallocated                 120,000
TOTAL               8,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (3) before the
Borrower has nominated adequate national staff in sufficient
numbers for the carrying out of Part C of the Project.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen overall
management of the agricultural sector, to improve its policy and
economic analysis, and to strengthen market development and
export performance.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
(MPARA)
1.   Training of managers of MPARA.
2.   Strengthening of the Finance and Personnel Department in
regular  and  temporary   staff  management, administration   and
monitoring of financial resource flows, and training therefor.
3.   Provision of technical assistance in computer planning and
information management.
4.   Provision of technical assistance to the Programming and
Finance Departments to develop public investment programs,
monitor and evaluate projects and parastatal performance.
5.   Carrying out of sector planning studies on export crops,
foodcrops and fertilizer.
6.   Further development of pilot extension operation and plan-
ning of future reforms of the national extension system.
7.   Strengthening of economic analysis capacity for the monitor-
ing of the rice subsector.
Part B:   Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry (MPAEF)
1.   Strengthening of the Department of Studies, Programming  and
Finance in project preparation, evaluation, economic analysis,
monitoring, accounting, and parastatal restructuring.
2.   Development  of  a  medium-term   computer  and  information
system.


﻿- 13 -
3.   Strengthening of the personnel and management capability of
MPAEF.
4.   Improvement of the management and maintenance of the vehicle
fleet.
Part C:   National Resources Inventory (MRSTD)
1.   Collection and analysis of existing documentation, informa-
tion, and remote sensing data.
2.   Preparation of inventories f or land, water resources, and
land use.
3.   Training of staff to support execution of Part C of the
Project.
4.   Preparation of the institution building program for National
Resources Inventory.
Part D:   Ministry of Planning, Finance and Economy (MPFE)
1.   Strengthening of an interministerial resource management
task force.
2.   Strengthening of the counterpart fund working group.
Part E:   Agricultural Research
Ministry of Scientific Research and Technology (MRSTD)
1.   Preparation of an international symposium on agricultural
research in Madagascar.
2.   Preparation of a long-term master plan for agricultural
research.
3.   Preparation of a research project to execute the first five-
year tranche of the master plan.
National Center for Applied Research on Rural Development
(FOFIFA)
4.   Preparation  of  a  complete   inventory  of  past  research
results.


﻿- 14 -
5.   Strengthening of FOFIFA's financial and research management.
6.   Training of FOFIFA's staff including training in research
and station management.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the pro-
cedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
Madagascar may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods, estimated to cost less than the equi-
valent of $200,000, and contracts for works may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of the Borrower's competitive
bidding procedures set forth in the Borrower's Decree No. 70-089
of January 28, 1970, provided, however, that:
(a) registration of bidders in the Registry of Commerce
shall not be required for the acceptance of their bids;
(b) no procurement shall be made on the basis of selected
tendering or direct contracting, except in the case of rejection
of all bids;
(c) bids shall be opened in public, i.e., bidders or their
representatives should be allowed to be present; and
(d) no special preference will be given to local bidders in
the evaluation of bids.
2.   Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of 10 million
Malagasy francs, may be procured on the basis of local price


﻿- 16 -
quotations received from at least three suppliers eligible under
the guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $40,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of each contract required to be fur-
nished to the Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of said
Appendix shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect
of such contracts.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of each contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment shall be


﻿- 17 -
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank
as Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.   'xcept as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made ,exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for Eligible
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the


﻿- 19 -
Association from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for Eligible Expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the   total   unwithdrawn  amount  of   the  Credit
allocated to the Eligible Categories, minus the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section  5.02  of   the  General  Conditions  with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice.have been or will be utilized in making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any


﻿- 20 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


