Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23246-CO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$32 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS SUPPORT PROJECT
December 14, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Pesos
1 Peso = US$0.0004347
US$1 = 2,300 Pesos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
EA            Environmental Assessment
EIA           Environmental Impact Assesment
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
ERR           Economic Rate of return
ESW           Economic and Sector Work
FINAGRO       Government Agricultural Finance Institution
FRR           Financial Rate of Return
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IFAD          International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF           International Monetary Fund
INCORA        Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform
IPM           Integrated Pest Management
LIL           Learning and Innovation Loan
MADR          Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NPV           Net Present Value
MIS           Monitoring and Information System
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PCG           Project Coordinating Group
PHRD          Project and Human Development Grant
PMR           Project Management Report
PPS           Productive Partnership Subproject
PROAGRO    Agriculture Program (Programa de Oferta Agropecuaria)
RDIP          Rural Development Investment Program
SIIF         Integrated Financial Information System
SMLM          Legally Minimun Monthly Salary (Salarios Minimos Legales Mensuales)
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
TA            Technical Assistance
TOR           Terms of Reference
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:   John Redwood
Sector Leader:   Adolfo Brizzi
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Martien van Nieuwkoop/Pierre Werbrouck



COLOMBIA
PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      12
3. Benefits and target population                                                     12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         17
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                                 17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           19
2. Financial                                                                          20
3. Technical                                                                          21
4. Institutional                                                                      21
5. Environmental                                                                      22
6. Social                                                                             24
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 26



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    27
2. Critical risks                                                                    27
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    28
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           29
2. Other Conditions                                                                  29
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         30
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        30
31
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         32
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   37
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        44
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary,                                                 45
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              51
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    64
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  65
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 67
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           69
Annex 11: Social Analysis                                                               71
Annex 12: Environmental Analysis                                                        78
MAP(S)
IBRD 31251



COLOMBIA
PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development - LCSES
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Date: December 14, 2001                             Team Leader: Pierre Werbrouck
Country Director: Olivier Lafourcade                Sector Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P041642                                 Sector(s): AY - Other Agriculture, BI - Institutional
Development, MC - Community Action Program
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SL)   Theme(s): Rural Development; Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
[XI Loan     [ ] Credit    [ Grant       []Guarantee       l Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 32.0
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 8.5                          Years to maturity: 13.5
Commitment fee: 0.85% p.a. during first 4 years; 0.75%   Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
thereafter
Financing Plan (US$m):     Source                              Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                         18.00            2.32         20.32
IBRD                                                             24.00            8.00         32.00
Total:                                                           42.00           10.32         52.32
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Address: Avenida Jimenez No. 7-65, Piso 3; Bogota, Colombia
Contact Person: Ms. Maria Clara Rodriguez
Tel: (57-1) 334-038           Fax: 243-4785              Email: minagricultura.gov.co
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY          2002       2003        2004      2005       2006       2007        2008
Annual     1.30        3.30       6.70        8.10      6.70       5.10        0.80
Cumulative     1.30       4.60       11.30      19.40      26.10      31.20      32.00
Project implementation period: 5.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 03/31/2002  Expected closing date:  09/30/2007
Retroactive financing would be allowed for eligible expenditures incurred since April 1, 2001 (but not
earlier than 12 months before loan signing), up to an arnount not to exceed USS 3 million.



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to generate income, create employment and promote social cohesion of poor
rural communities in an economic and environmental sustainable manner through the development and
implementation of a demand-driven, productive partnership scheme with the private sector.
In achieving this objective, it is expected that the project would contribute to: (i) reactivating the rural
economy; (ii) improving the welfare of poor rural inhabitants; and (iii) generating an enabling environment
for social peace.
Under the project, a productive partnership subproject is considered any collaborative arrangement between
a small farmer producer organization and an agribusiness enterprise that aims to reduce technical,
commercial, financial and/or social risks associated in pursuit of potential productivity and income gains in
a particular value-chain in such a manner that creates a win-win situation for all participating parties.
Based on the experience of prototype partnerships developed as part of the project preparation process, this
means that by entering into a productive partnership, members of small farmers producer organizations
obtain access to relevant markets, usually output markets, but also to critical inputs (e.g. high quality seed)
or factor inputs (particularly credit for working capital). The advantages for agribusiness firms to enter
into partnerships with producer organizations include opportunities to expand food processing activities by
securing supplies from small producers that meet certain predetermined quality standards, without the need
to expand own production capacity.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
At the development objective level, the success of the project will be monitored along different dimensions
including income and employment generated through the subprojects; beneficiary targeting and diversity.
At the project output level, the project will be monitored by indicators such as the number of expressions
of interest, subproject profiles evaluated, financial performance of subprojects and efficiency indicators for
the project coordinating group.
The most important performance indicators could be categorized in the following manner:
*   During 2002-2006 producers participating in productive partnerships increase their income by 20%
compared to the baseline
* By the end of the project, an increase of 50% in employment in the participating production units of
which 40% is employment for women.
*   By the end of the project, agricultural productivity in production units has increased on average by
20% compared to regional indicators
*   100 productive partnerships are formalized, consolidated, are operating in a sustainable manner and
contain conflict resolution schemes
*   100 productive partnerships reimburse their commercial bank credit (if any) on time and at a recovery
rate of 90% or more
*   Productive partnerships investments present an intemal rate of return of 15%.
*   Project monitoring and evaluation system properly operating and updated.
- 2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R97-233   Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/06/97
The CAS puts forward a development agenda which aims to ensure that Colombia achieves its full
economic growth potential and focuses on reducing poverty, improving social conditions, and ensuring
sustainable development. Within this agenda, the CAS identifies six areas of strategic importance where
the Bank should play a catalytic role in assisting Colombia's development process. The project contributes
to these strategic areas in the following four ways:
(i) promoting rural development: the project will improve production of pennanent and transitory crops
and strengthen the capacity of rural organizations. These initiatives will lead to increased income and
employment opportunities and ultimately to improved standards of living for rural households.
(ii) promoting social cohesion and development: productive partnership subprojects may help overcome
some of the structural obstacles to economic violence by providing income and employment opportunities
to the poor. The strengthening of farmer organizations, relationships between farmers and the private
sectors, and establishing informal conflict resolution mechanisms may develop greater social cohesion and
reduce violence.
(iii) ensuring sustainable development: promoting the production of crops best suited to the local supply of
natural resources, creating employment opportunities for the rural poor, and utilizing more efficient
agricultural practices help to reduce pressures on environmentally fragile lands and thereby improve
sustainable agriculture.
(iv) developing human capital: Strategic alliances and technical assistance packages will help low-income
farmers improve knowledge in agricultural production, develop business skills (e.g. marketing,
management, etc.), and enhance their ability to structure and operate cooperatives.
A CAS Progress Report (R99-201) was presented to the Board on November 18, 1999. This update
reinforced the strategic priorities of the CAS as outlined above. The Productive Partnership Support
project has been included in the base-case lending program for Colombia.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues
Poverty. Poverty in Colombia remains a critical problem with strong rural and regional dimensions. As a
result of the economic crisis, the gains made in the area of poverty reduction in the early to mid-1990s have
been eroded in recent years. Rural poverty in Colombia declined until the beginning of the nineties but then
it basically stagnated at a very high level of 79%. Sector performance during the nineties was considerably
less than during previous decades. Moreover, the incidence of poverty in rural areas was almost 80% in
1999 as compared to 55% in urban areas. Households that face the largest relative risks of poverty are
large, linked to the agricultural sector, and have low skill levels and low employment rates (Colombia
Poverty Report, 2001). A farm/household survey carried out as part of the project preparation process and
focusing on agricultural producers found that the incidence of poverty among this group was as high as
80%. Seventy percent of the population with incomes below subsistence live in rural areas. Three regions in
particular have especially high levels of poverty: the Carribean, Pacific, and the Amazon; however,
throughout the country one may find pockets of misery. In spite of reductions in the level of poverty,
- 3 -



income inequality remains an issue with a Gini coefficient of approximately .50 which, despite some
improvement between 1988 and 1995, now stands at an all time high. In spite of the constitutionally
mandated universality of education and health services, they along with other financial and technical
assistance programs, either do not reach rural areas or have minimal impact due to lack of institutional
capacity. Any poverty reduction campaign based on productive projects must take into consideration the
limited education and business skills of the rural population, and must include actions to remedy these
limitations.
Rural violence. Colombia ranks among the countries with the highest incidence of violence. Violence in
the countryside is particularly acute with an estimated 1.9 million people displaced over the last decade.
The causes of political violence in Colombia are manifold, including: (i) unequal access to economic power
(especially land and natural resources); (ii) exclusion from political power; and (iii) available funding
through access to illicit drugs proceeds by the guerrilla and paramilitaries. The World Bank sector work
on violence recognizes the complexity and the central role of violence in impeding development in the
country.
The insecurity caused by the violence reduces the incentive to invest in agriculture and, more importantly
causes a bias in the pattern of investment towards activities that are relatively non-intensive in the use of
labor which may encourage landowners to invest in livestock rather than crops. With the growth of the
paramilitary movement and increased buying up of land in rural areas by drug traffickers, the problem has
become increasingly complex with land having become even further concentrated in the hands of the old
elite and drug traffickers as evidenced by the proportion of large land holdings over 500 hectares which
increased from holding 32% of total lands in 1984 to 45% in 1997. Those peasants who move to remote
and marginal areas such as the Amazon to avoid the violence, often participate in growing illicit crops.
These are sprayed with chemicals that harm the environment and damage health.
Untapped agricultural production. In overall terms, the agriculture sector grew at half the rate of the
economy as a whole in the 1990s. As a consequence it saw its proportion of GDP fell from 18% in 1990 to
about 14% in 1999. Nevertheless, despite this decline, agriculture still is among the most important sectors
in the economy. It also employs about 23% of the labor force and contributes to about 28% of foreign
exchange earnings. The liberalization of the economy coupled with an overvalued peso and falling world
prices for grains and other commodities has led to a re-composition of agricultural production. This is
evidenced by a decline over the last decade of more than a quarter in the production of annual crops, an
area equivalent to 870,000 hectares. During the same period, perennial crop production increased by 20%
or 200,000 hectares. Other factors such as the high cost of and limited access to capital, as well as the
prevalence of rural violence (see preceding paragraph) have impeded further cultivation of perennial crops
leaving the nation's potential production of these high-margin crops untapped. In the case of palm oil, only
5% of the potential land is currently cultivated, that is 148,360 out of 2,500,000 hectares.
The challenge of the rural sector is to increase its competitiveness in a market economy context. With the
recent depreciation of the peso to levels comparable with the early 1990s in real terms, the rural sector for
the first time since the partial liberalization of the economy in 1991, has a more level playing field to
increase its competitiveness vis-a-vis foreign players. This is especially important as it is expected that
developed countries will make a serious effort in opening up their markets for agricultural products from
developing countries in the context of on-going trade negotiations coordinated by the WTO in the coming
years.
Difficult access to finance. Lending in Colombia has virtually come to a standstill in all sectors of the
economy. Supply has been affected by the large loan loss provisions required of banks to cover their past
- 4 -



due portfolio while demand has been limited by the extremely high nominal and real interest rates.
Agricultural lending has been particularly hard hit, with lending to small farmers dropping more than 80%
from 1996 levels. The Caja Agraria, the government owned and controlled agrarian bank, stopped lending
in the second semester of 1998 when, already technically bankrupt, its cash flows could no longer cover
short-term liabilities. It has been in the process of liquidation since mid-1999, although the Banco Agrario
was created to replace the defunct Caja Agraria. Dozens of cooperatives have been liquidated.
The lack of credit is particularly acute for smaller farmers who have little or no collateral and for those
producers interested in making long-term investments in perennial crops. Although the government
provides a fund that guarantees up to 80% of the principal of loans to farmers, banks are still reticent to
lend to this group. A case in point is the Banco Agrario which has adopted extremely conservative lending
policies requiring 100% in admissible guarantees and will not accept land as collateral; although forward
contracts are accepted. The lack of guarantees for the remaining 20% of principal have all but closed
lending to producers of crops not directly and formally linked to commodity markets.
Long-term financing is unavailable due to structural issues including a history of high inflation and
constant bouts of illiquidity. Real interest rates remain at 15 to 25% for agricultural and consumer lending
respectively. The 15% real interest rate charged for agricultural loans reflects a ceiling imposed by the
Government-owned second-tier agricultural bank - FINAGRO. High interest rates inhibits investment in
long-term projects.
In the short-term, traditional lending through financial intermediaries as well as financing through input
suppliers, distributors and agribusiness are more viable, flexible and accessible alternatives. The project
aims to build on these alternatives by supporting partnerships between small farmer producer organizations
and agribusiness that will facilitate access to markets for small farmers.
Unequal access to land. Concentration indices in the Colombian economy are among the highest in the
world, and land ownership is no exception as evidenced by a GIM coefficient of 0.84. Inequitable
distribution of land in rural areas has been reinforced and exacerbated by various factors including: (i) tax
incentives for investments in agriculture which stimulated land purchases by rich individuals to off-set
taxes related to nonagricultural enterprises; (ii) legal impediments to the smooth functioning of the land
rental and sales markets; (iii) credit and interest rate subsidies and a disproportionate protection of the
livestock subsector; and (iv) the use of land for money laundering purposes. Moreover land is useful as a
hedge against inflation and currency devaluations and provides a safe savings mechanism.
In spite of more than half a century of land reform, land distribution has not improved and may have
worsened. Efforts to redistribute land within the agricultural frontier were unsuccessful, and most land
reform has been conducted on the frontier through government directed and spontaneous colonization;
however, the GNI coefficients for land ownership in these areas are not better than the national average.
For example, in Caqueta, an area of intensive government-directed colonization financed with World Bank
funds in the late 60's and 70's the GINI coefficient is .74 as measured in terms of land productivity.
By passing Law 160 in 1994, Colombia embarked on a new strategy of voluntarily negotiated land reform
that aims to provide the poor with grant and loan assistance to buy the land that they themselves have
identified and negotiated and which gives greater power to local institutions, reducing the role of INCORA.
Detailed features of voluntarily negotiated land reform include: (i) poor beneficiaries are given a subsidy to
cover 70 percent of the cost of establishing a family farm; the remaining 30 percent of the cost would be
financed by bank loans; (ii) establishment of a family farm is considered more than just the mere transfer of
land and includes the cost of purchasing land, on-farm infrastructure, housing and technical assistance;
(iii) beneficiaries identify properties they wish to buy and negotiate directly with landowners; (iv) proposals
for the establishment of family farms are competitively evaluated, based on their economic viability; and
-5 -



land reform procedures are decentralized, giving power to local governments and communities to influence
the pace and direction of land reform. A World Bank supported land reform pilot successfully applied this
approach in five municipalities in 1997-98. However, as far as government-directed programs go,
corruption, inefficiency and the unwillingness to utilize market mechanisms to establish land prices have
resulted in an odd sort of speculation where poor land is bought and held until public funds become
available to sell at a price established between the owner and bureaucrats.
Government Strategv
Rural Sector Policy. The rural policy framework established by the MADRpursues integration of the rural
sector in the national economy through policies that generate favorable conditions for increasing its
competitiveness, equality and sustainability, while taking into account its diversity and complexity. A
guiding principle in the formulation of this policy framework is the view that the roles of the public and
private sector are complimentary and the rejection of a dichotomy between regulation and liberalization. In
this context, it is explicitly stated that resolving the existing profound socioeconomic inequalities in the
rural sector can not be left entirely to the free play of market forces and requires an active role of the state
in specifically defined areas. At the same time, it is recognized that the effectiveness of rural policies is
conditioned by factors that are not entirely under control of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development (MADR). These factors include: (i) progress in the peace process as determinant for risks
associated with private sector investment in rural areas; (ii) macro-economic environment, particularly
exchange and interest rate, as determinants of financial feasibility of investment opportunities; (iii) the need
to maintain coherency between internal policy and international agreements as limiting factor in the choice
of instruments; and (iv) fiscal situation as determinant for available resource envelope to implement rural
policies.
In general terms the rural policy framework in Colombia consists of four pillars. The first pillar includes
instruments aimed at promoting investment in the sector by: (i) promoting the availability of venture capital
for the sector; (ii) providing incentives for capital investments; (iii) subsidizing land improvements in
irrigation and drainage; (iv) reducing risks through crop insurance and investment guarantees; and (v)
restoring creditworthiness of farmers through support for farm debt restructuring. The second pillar
consists of instruments that aim to promote agricultural technology development and animal health. Under
this pillar, support is provided to agricultural research, extension and training, phytosanitary services and
environmental management. There is a general trend towards making support provided under this pillar
more demand-driven and to improve quality by relying on more competitive selection processes. The third
pillar includes instruments that are aimed at promoting rural development through targeted interventions
focusing on the poor and marginal groups. Under this pillar, attempts are made to address the highly
unequal distribution of land in Colombia through voluntary negotiated land reform in the context of the
implementation of productive projects aimed at establishing viable family farms. Another important
initiative is the provision of subsidized housing for low income rural households. Other measures under
this pillar include the promotion of micro-enterprises and the stimulation of rural employment. The fourth
pillar of the rural policy framework deals with both foreign and domestic trade. With respect to foreign
trade, the rural policy framework is clearly embedded in the foreign trade agenda of the country which
seeks to ensure stable access of consumers to affordable products of appropriate quality, while recognizing
the rights of rural producers as an integral part of the Colombian society based on a dynamic relationship
between city and countryside. In that sense, trade liberalization and integration of the rural sector in the
international economy is not seen as an objective in itself, but a mean to capitalize on comparative
advantages of the sector. In practical terms this implies that in international trade negotiations Colombia
continues to seek consolidation of reasonable levels of protection for the most sensitive food crops,
- 6 -



maintains a preference for incremental and gradual changes, and works on correcting distortions and unfair
practices by other nations.
An interesting twist to the rural policy framework is the attempt by MADR to integrate its implementation
in the Programa de Oferta Agropecuaria, PROAGRO, that uses the value-chain as a transversal axis to
define the application of instruments and allocation of incentives based on Sector Competitiveness
Agreements (Acuerdos Sectoriales de Competividad) with the private sector. Under these Agreements, the
relevant parties in a specific value chain prioritize actions to increase production and improve
competitiveness of the product in question. Agreements have been specified for poultry, eligible oils, dairy,
potato, cacao, cotton, fruits and forestry products. The potential advantages of this approach are twofold.
First, it ensures that the application of instruments and allocation of incentives becomes more
demand-driven and properly aligned with (sub)-sector specific constraints, thereby improving the
effectiveness of the rural policies that are pursued. Second, by entering into agreements with the private
sector, public resources available to implement rural policies could be leveraged with contributions from
the private sector. This is important as the sum of domestic support measures, price support and export
subsidies amounted to less than 2% of the value of agricultural production in 1998. The need for leverage
became even more acute in 1999 when the budget for domestic support, making up 85% of the total in
1998, was slashed by 40% in 1999.
Although the focus on the value chain as a conceptual tool to integrate the implementation of rural policies
is valuable, this initiative has stopped short of realigning the existing institutional framework in accordance
with this new focus. The institutional framework therefore remains far too complex and fragmented to
effectively deliver results on the ground while at the same time imposing significant transaction costs on
rural producers who try to access instruments and incentives provided under the system.
Peace Process. The Government strategy to stimulate rural development is embedded within the broader
peace process of the country. In September 1999, the Government developed a Plan for Peace, Prosperity
and Strengthening of the State (Plan Colombia). This plan is an integrated strategy that seeks: (i) to
promote the peace process; (ii) revive the economy; (iii) combat the narcotics industry; (iv) strengthen the
democratic pillars of the Colombian society; (iv) promote reform of the justice system; (v) protect human
rights; and (vi) foster greater democratization and social development. The World Bank and the IMF have
allocated about US$900 million to social development, employment and job training programs under the
Plan.
Following Law 487, the Investment Fund for Peace was established in 1998. The objective of this Fund is
to capture and channel resources to finance the productive and social aspects associated with Plan
Colombia. The Fund has no judicial status and is ascribed to the Administrative Department of the
Presidency. For the purpose of promoting productive investments in areas that are particularly affected by
the violent conflict, it has created the program "Campo en Acci6n". This program builds on the concept of
productive partnerships as envisaged under the project.
- 7-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project would address several of the issues confronting rural development in Colombia. In
line with the implementation strategy of the MADR for its rural policy framework, the project would
address above issues in a holistic manner by facilitating the establishment of productive partnerships that
bring together small farmer producer organizations and agribusiness with the support of financial
institutions, Government, and civil society. Models of collaboration have been tested during project
preparation through six prototype productive partnerships. These prototype partnerships included: (i) dairy
products (60 members); (ii) vegetables (28 members); (iii) oilpalm (70 members); (iv) com-cocao (56
members); (v) oilpalm (100 members) and (vi) agroforestry (50 members).
A key condition for these efforts was an explicitly stated joint interest by the small farmer producer
organization or smaller informal groups and the agribusiness to explore an opportunity that could
potentially generate mutual benefits. In all cases a participatory process was followed under which
producer organizations and respective agribusiness worked together in the formulation of a detailed
productive partnership proposal. This process was facilitated by a third party, usually an NGO or a
consultant. As a reflection of the learning-by-doing approach, the facilitator also provided training to
partnership participants in critical areas such as farm management, accounting, quality control, sustainable
natural resource management and conflict resolution. As a result of the prototype partnership preparation
process, six detailed proposals have been formulated and incorporated in a common format that covers the
following aspects: (i) description of the productive partnership in terms of problems being addressed,
solutions being pursued, outputs being expected, and long term vision being realized; (ii) feasibility of the
productive partnership from a financial, social, technical and environmental point of view; (iii)
implementation arrangements both in terms of own contributions as well as external assistance; and (iv)
assessment of the external environment (e.g. municipal context) in which the productive partnership will be
realized with a view to identify possible risks and define corresponding risk mitigation measures. Based on
the required external assistance, the project would support these partnerships by providing a set of
incentives that are tailored to the specific business objectives for each partnerships. A detailed description
of all prototype productive partnerships has been included in the project files.
The holistic treatment of issues facing producer organizations and agribusiness through a demand-driven
approach has emerged as a key lesson from the prototype partnerships. The project is built on the results
of the farm and household surveys which indicate that the constraints facing farmer producer organization
and agribusiness are varied: access to long-term finance; access to productive land, availability of attractive
growth markets; a safe and peaceful sociopolitical context; and availability of well-qualified technical
assistance. The project therefore proposes a Modular Incentive (or cost-sharing transfer) to address the
fragmentation of the public support system by offering a one-stop shop for small farmers participating in
productive partnerships. The modular incentive can be applied to a wide range of possible investments
rather than the limited focus of existing subsidies and incentives. Given the limitations of public sector
institutions making decisions at the operational level, small farmers organized in producers organizations
will be empowered to actually manage the modular incentive through their own organizations.
In addition to the Modular Incentive, the project design contains several important characteristics that aim
to address many of the sector constraints identified above:
(i) Finance. The Modular Incentive provides which seed capital (subsidized) for productive partnership
subprojects that meet agreed financial, social and environmental eligibility criteria. In order to address the
financial sector's concerns that incentives for rural projects oriented towards the poor might generate moral
hazard in investment decisions, the project has taken care to design the incentive in such a way that it
- 8 -



demands resources from the private sector and producers to complement financing needs. The project also
contains several features that improve access to secure commercial loans including a long-term sales
contracts between the producer organization and agribusiness; projects structured to minimize bank lending
by relying on other sources of financing (e.g. loans provided by agribusiness, supplier credits, etc.); fund
flow arrangements that direct revenue generated into a trust fund that will be first used to repay bank debt;
and at times lending to groups as opposed to individuals. The support provided under the Modular
Incentive would close the financing gap of subprojects after other potential sources have been explored,
rather than as a point of departure. Hence, subprojects would be prioritized according to the amount of
required support provided under the Modular Incentive per beneficiary.
(ii) Social capital and peace. Strengthening social capital among farm conimunities may help address
some of the determinants for economic and social violence in rural Colombia. The project will place
particular emphasis on helping create and strengthen production cooperatives by providing a local capacity
and training program tailored to the needs of each subproject. By empowering stakeholders to take the
implementation of productive partnership subprojects in their own hands, the project also sets the stage for
resolving existing multiple constraints by mobilizing local knowledge.
(iii) Technical assistance. The technical demands of modem agriculture in a global economy require not
only quality, but also quantity and timeliness in the delivery of products. Agribusiness must clearly
communicate its needs to the peasants who participate in the partnerships, and based on these needs and the
agricultural potential of the land, technological assistance programs will be developed to facilitate the
planting, cultivation, harvest, and post-harvest handling. The project recognizes the limitations of the
public sector as a service deliverer to support the establishment and subsequent implementation of
productive partnership at the operational level. Consequently, under the project, support to the provision of
technical assistance to small farmers by participating agribusiness firms in the productive partnerships
rather than by public sector agents is emphasized. By doing so, the concept of productive partnerships
provide participating partners to seize responsibility as agents of change, thereby putting in practice the
participatory model of empowerment for development.
(iv) Land access and use. While land tenure is an important element for strengthening farmer commitment
to agro-industrial ventures and for facilitating financing by banks, it is not always necessary for achieving
the objectives of this project. Given the distortions in land prices due to the nonagricultural based benefits
of land ownership, land rental with an option to purchase may enhance project profitability by lowering
initial costs. In addition, the project is considering the reactivation of abandoned or under-utilized plots
which were the subject of past land reform efforts, considerably lowering investment requirements. When
land purchase is required, the project may assist farmers in negotiating land purchases according to the
general principles set out in the Agrarian Reform law and the Productive Partnerships Subproject Manual
which takes into account the experiences in several municipalities that participated in the Bank supported
market-assisted land reform pilot program. In addition, by focusing mainly on perennial and annual crops
in the context of productive partnerships, the project would contribute to putting in place a strategy of
sustainable intensification as a key to unlock untapped production potential in the rural sector.
(v) Markets. Crops and individual projects will be prioritized based on their long-term national and
international competitiveness and their social impacts. The project will rely on government and private
entities that research international trade opportunities and review of local regulations and international
trade agreements to recognize the attractiveness and potential distortions in the respective market for each
crop. This information will be used to help evaluate project proposals. While these are important
considerations, the demand-driven nature of the project will give priority to those subproject proposals
where markets have been identified and parties jointly express a willingness to construct a partnership.
-9-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
IndicAtive              Bank-       % Of
Component!                    Sector          Costs      % of    1financing    Bank-
(US$M)    Toltal      (US$M)   financing
1. Preparation of Productive        Community Action        6.20       11.9       4.00        12.5
Partnership Subprojects             Program
2. Implementation of Productive     Agro-Industry &        41.10       78.6      24.10        75.3
Partnership Subprojects             Marketing
3. Project Management               Institutional           4.70        9.0       3.90        12.2
Development
Total Project Costs                     52.00        99.4      32.00      100.0
Front-end fee                       0.32        0.6        0.00        0.0
Total Financing Required                        52.32      100.0      32.00      100.0
Component 1: Preparation of Productive Partnership Subproiects. Under this component, the project would
finance technical assistance and training for activities that are associated with: (i) information sharing; (ii)
mobilization and screening of interest; (iii) pre-investments; (iv) ex-ante evaluation of detailed productive
partnership subproject proposals; and (v) studies. The objective of the information-sharing sub-component
is to inform potential productive partnership participants and other relevant stakeholders about the scope
and the rules of the game of the project. It is expected that interested potential participants as a result of
these activities, would enter the program with realistic expectations. The objective of the mobilization and
screening sub-component is to generate dual expressions of interest from potential productive partnership
participants and subsequently screen these by using an agreed set of eligibility criteria specified in the
Productive Partnerships Subproject Manual. The result of this activity is to establish a pool of productive
partnership subproject profiles that are eligible for support under the pre-investments sub-component of the
project.
Pre-investment assistance may take the form of technical advice, feasibility and design studies, social
assessments, environmental assessments, market information, geo-referenced maps, building of
management capacity, and establishing or fortifying links with potential partners and financiers. The
project would contract TA providers to assist productive partnership participants for this purpose.
Preparation of detailed productive partnership subproject proposals is considered a process of
learning-by-doing. For this purpose, the TA provider will also provide training to small farmers involved
in the preparation process in critical areas such as farm management, administration and accounting,
sustainable natural resource management, quality control, conflict resolution and other training that might
be deemed necessary.
To facilitate ex-ante evaluation of productive partnership subproject proposals, the project would finance
external experts with relevant qualifications, experience and independence to ensure that the allocation of
project support in the subsequent implementation stage is done on strict technical grounds and in an
objective manner. In case there is considerable interest for subprojects in a particular value-chain,
- 1 0 -



subsector specific studies could be carried out under this Component as well.
Component 2: Implementation of Productive Partnership Subprojects. Under this component, the project
would support the implementation of productive partnerships by financing: (i) cost sharing transfers as a
financial incentive (Modular Incentive) for participating small farmers producer organizations; and (ii)
technical assistance and training to productive partnership participants. The Modular Incentive has an
integrated nature that is managed by beneficiaries themselves for a range of purposes that they themselves
consider most critical for the establishment of productive partnership subprojects and that have been
specified in the corresponding investment plan. Applications include: (i) on-farm infrastructure such as
irrigation canals, aquaculture facilities, greenhouses, storage facilities; (ii) durable goods such as
machinery, equipment, tools, fences; (iii) vegetative materials for nurseries; (iv) operational inputs such as
fertilizers and chemicals that do not appear on the negative list; (v) services such as land leveling; special
studies, surveys, laboratory analyses and inventories; insurance; publicity, market and communication
services; (vi) labor usually in the form of remuneration to the beneficiary or his family (this is particularly
important for organic crops); and (vi) purchase of land (financed from counterpart funds).
The maximum value of the Modular Incentive is 40% of the required investment for a viable family
production enterprise with a cap of 6 million pesos (approximately US$ 2,600) when beneficiaries already
own land. In case of participating beneficiaries that do not own land and who choose to rent land, a cap of
8.5 million pesos (US$ 3,700) would be established. When land purchase is deemed necessary, the ceiling
of the Modular Incentive would be 17.5 million pesos (JS$ 7,600) of which no more than 11 million pesos
($5,000) would be available for the purchase of land, under the condition that the total cost of land and its
preparation would not exceed 35% of the required investment for the establishment of the project. The
different caps placed on the incentive as well as the requirement that land be held in trust rather than titled
individually are designed to allow landless peasants to participate in the project either through rental
markets or land purchase while at the same time making participation in the subproject solely for the
purpose of land acquisition less attractive.
The terms and conditions of the Modular Incentive are based on the financial analysis of the prototype
productive partnerships. In addition, the Modular Incentive takes into account other incentives and
subsidies geared towards the rural sector to ensure that it is within a reasonable range. Along similar lines
as under the pre-investments sub-component, the project will finance technical assistance and training
during the implementation period of the productive partnership.
Component 3: Project Management. Under this component, the project would finance technical assistance,
goods and equipment and incremental operating costs for the establishment and operation of a Project
Coordinating Group (PCG) in MADR, the establishment of a management information system, and design
and implementation of monitoring, evaluation and learning arrangements. A consistent effort would be
made to establish a web-based interface between the project, beneficiaries and TA providers which would
facilitate two-way communications. By doing so, it is expected that travel by stakeholders for the purpose
of project implementation could be reduced, thereby reducing security risks associated with project
operations.
- 1 1-



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
To better tailor the financing needs of small farmers to the integrated character of productive
partnership subprojects, the project proposes the establishment of the Modular Incentive. This incentive
provides seed capital for approved productive partnership subprojects, that can be applied to a range of
investment items and is managed by the productive partnership stakeholder themselves, following a
participatory model of empowerment. Since both in terms of orientation and implementation, this Incentive
is new, it would be formalized following a new regulation of Law 101 of 1993 signed into effect through a
Presidential Decree (Decreto Presidencial). A draft Decree, endorsed by MADR has been presented to the
Bank before Negotiations. Signing of the Decree would be a condition of disbursement of the Cost Sharing
Transfer category of the loan.
Based on the principles of the Agrarian Reform Law (Law 160) of 1994 that establishes the basic
framework for voluntarily negotiated land reform for those subprojects where a transfer of land is
required, the project would seek to implement its support by adopting the procedures established in
the pilot for land reform which was carried out from 1997-1999. The Presidential Decree for the
Modular Incentive would formalize disbursement of the land purchase portion of the Modular
Incentive (financed from counterpart funds) under Clause 7 of Law 101 rather than Law 160.
3. Benefits and target population:
Economic benefits. The project will promote the cultivation of cash crops within the context of sustainable
production systems. Subprojects will aim to provide net profits of at least 0.5 SMLMs in excess of family
labor costs at on-going market rates in the subproject areas. Plot size per family (unidad agroempresarial)
would be calculated accordingly. This contrasts with the current method for calculating the size of family
production systems, which establishes as a parameter for plot calculation actual rather than optimal use,
and favors hired over family labor. Initial incomes would be less, especially in the case of perennial crops,
but they would increase over the long run as financing costs of capital investments decrease. Farmers and
their families involved in subprojects would benefit directly from the program while the creation of
employment, another priority of the project, would indirectly benefit others. Agribusiness would benefit
from increased local supply of necessary inputs of better quality and sufficient quantity. National benefits
include a reduced dependence on some tradable commodities that may be produced locally and increased
production of exportable crops. In aggregate this would improve the country's trade balance. The project
also provides opportunities for more diversified crop production thereby reducing production and
commercial risks at the national level.
Social benefits. The emphasis on forming partnerships (especially with traditionally marginalized groups)
produces stronger social and economic bonds among different institutional actors within and between
communities. This enhanced social cohesion may help reduce rural violence. Moreover, the income
generation and employment opportunities presented to small farmers through cultivation of crops may help
foster greater financial independence and empowerment. In addition, efforts to include all family members
in the decision-making process would create an opportunity to voice concerns and propose solutions
regarding domestic violence, the double shift for women and the effects of migration of youth either to seek
employment in urban areas or to avoid recruitment by paramilitaries or guerilla groups.
Environmental benefits. The project proposes diversified farm systems to avoid both the economic and
environmental risks associated with mono-cultures. The project would also promote sustainable agriculture
in part by supporting the generation of crop revenues from green/organic labels, which usually provide
long-term contracts at more stable prices. The efficient use of land resources through land rental markets,
which price land according to agricultural-based returns, will also be supported by the project. This method
- 12-



of land access would result in the establishment of viable family farms on lands that are better suited for
agricultural production.
With respect to environmental costs, technical assistance is crucial to the viability of the subprojects as
mismanagement of pesticides, herbicides, fungicides and fertilizers causes damage to water resources, soils,
wildlife and the crops themselves rendering the project unsustainable. Integrated pest management and
utilization of alternative technologies for fertilization will be incorporated into project activities. The
project considers technical assistance not as a cost to the project, but as an investment since inappropriate
use of agrochemicals results in excessive production costs.
Reduced Risks. By linking up small farmers producer organizations with agribusiness in productive
partnerships there is considerable potential to reduce various types of risks. First, commercial risks would
be reduced for small farmer producer organizations through the establishment of a better secured marketing
channel and better access to market intelligence, including knowledge about product quality standards.
Second, technical risks would be reduced through the provision of technical guidance and assistance by
participating agribusiness in order to secure supplies under agreed quality standards. Third, financial risks
would be reduced through more flexible financing provided by agribusiness, the use of trust companies as
retention agents for interest and debt service payments from the small farmer producer organization to debt
financing providers and the signing of forward contracts which could serve as loan collateral.
Target population. The target population consists of low-income small-holders with under-exploited plots,
rural day-laborers without land, and displaced families. The population will also likely be a member of a
cooperative and demonstrate strong entrepreneurial skills in agriculture and related activities.  The
eligibility criteria for project participation that have been agreed, include the following: (i) poor male and
female heads of household with or without land, (ii) between 18-50 years old, (iii) at least one family
members with complete primary schooling or participating in adult education programs, (iv) at least three
years of agricultural experience relevant to the proposed partnership activity, (v) willingness to participate
in the training programs provided by the project, (vi) assets of not more than 200 minimum wages, and (vii)
with 75% of the income derived from agricultural activities up to a total (including off-farm income) of no
more than 4 minimum wage per month. The project can be classified as a poverty-focused operation as the
population of potential applicants has a significantly larger proportion of low-income people than the
country's overall population. This is in part a result of the highly skewed rural-urban poverty distribution.
Although the project will not specifically target special population groups because of its demand-driven
nature, the project will accommodate the special conditions and needs of indigenous peoples,
Afro-Colombians and the internally displaced populations. Interested indigenous communities could
participate through their Cabildos, provided the land tenure of the area of the Resguardo to be cultivated
under the subproject is not in conflict. The beneficiary eligibility criteria would not be applied, rather
participants would be selected by their Cabildos according to its own selection process. The
Afro-Colombian population would have access to the project benefits through the established criteria for
productive partnerships if they live mixed with the rest of the population of the locality. If they live in
community, in a collectively owned territory, they could participate through their own organizations in a
similar fashion to the indigenous communities. The displaced population could access the project through
their existing or new organizations, keeping in mind the norms of the government policy for the internally
displaced.
According to household surveys conducted as part of the project preparation process, the incidence of
poverty among rural households is approximately 80%, based on the index of "Unsatisfied Basic Needs".
Consequently, there will be plenty of eligible participants throughout the country. This situation offers an
-13-



opportunity to achieve two objectives simultaneously: (i) reduce the risk associated with the armed
conflict; and (ii) increase the quality of the proposed productive partnerships. In effect, by avoiding a
geographic targeting, the partnership approach and methodology will be spread out in the country in
regions of high, medium and low intensity of conflict. This itself would become, on the one hand, a good
dissemination strategy of the model across the country; on the other hand, a risk mitigation measure by not
concentrating all efforts on difficult regions. In addition, by opening up the opportunity to participate to
interested parties from the whole country, the pool of productive partnership proposals will be larger, and
consequently, project management will have more choice to select the best proposals.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period. The loan is expected to become effective March 31, 2002 for a 5.5 year period
through September 30, 2007.
Guiding Principles for Institutional Framework. The nature of the project with its focus on facilitating
partnerships between agribusiness and small farmer producer organizations that are economically feasible
and sustainable, implies the need for up-front recognition of a rather limited role of the public sector in the
implementation of the project. It is this premise, while taking into account the experiences generated by the
institutional innovations in other projects in the Colombia portfolio, that provides the building block for the
proposed institutional framework of the Productive Partnership for Peace Project.
The implementation structure of the project is based on three principles: (i) responsibilities of public sector
are specified in terms of orientation and coordination of the project; (ii) execution of project activities is
completely decentralized and transferred under the umbrella of the private sector; (iii) ample scope for
participation by relevant stakeholders is structured through a clear distribution of roles and responsibilities
that takes into account recognized competences and capacities of each party. At the same time, operational
procedures are designed to provide transparent rules of the game, clear eligibility criteria for the
identification of beneficiaries and allocation of resources, efficient flow of funds and adequate supervision
arrangements.
Borrower and Executing Agency. The Borrower of the loan to finance the project would be the Republic
of Colombia represented by the Ministry of Finance. The Executing Agency would be the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR). The project would also tap into the fiscal space of the
Investment Fund for Peace to finance productive partnership subprojects but only as counterpart funds to
the project.
Project Oversight and Policy Guidance. Project oversight would be conducted by a National Technical
Committee established in MADR. This Committee would be presided by the Minister of Agriculture and
Rural Development or his/her delegate (Vice Minister of Agriculture or Director General). Other members
of the Committee would include the Director of Agricultural Development in the National Planning
Department; and the Executive Director of the Investment Fund for Peace or his delegate for agricultural
affairs. To facilitate participation of a relevant range of stakeholders at the strategic level of the project, a
representative of the financial sector, a representative of agricultural producers organizations and a
representative of small farmers (campesino) organizations would also be included in the National Technical
Committee. The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development would appoint these representatives,
following criteria specified in the project administrative manual. In case counterpart funds for the purchase
of land under productive partnership subproject originate from INCORA, a representative of this institution
would also participate in the National Technical Committee for this particular purpose. In general terms,
the National Technical Committee would ensure consistency of project implementation with agreed
- 14 -



conceptual and technical design. By doing so, it would approve annual operative plans and project
manuals, review project monitoring reports, appoint the project management team and formally assign the
Modular Incentive to productive partnership subproject that meet established eligibility criteria
Project Management. The coordination of project implementation at the operational level would be the
responsibility of the Project Coordinating Group (PCG) to be established in MADR. PCG would consist
of a team of dedicated professionals with relevant disciplinary backgrounds for the purposes of the project
and headed by the project Manager. The project manager would report to the National Technical
Committee in general and to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development in particular. PCG would
have the following functions: (i) elaborate annual operation plans and ensure their execution once
approved; (ii) elaborate semestral monitoring reports with approved annual operation plans as reference;
(iii) elaborate and propose modifications to project manuals and guidelines; (iv) establish a long list of
eligible TA providers; (v) conduct a public information campaign regarding the objectives and rules of the
game of the project; (vi) select productive partnership ideas presented jointly by interested partnership
participants for pre-investment support; (vii) arrange for the contracting of TA providers for facilitating the
preparation and implementation of productive partnerships; (viii) arrange for the contracting of experts for
the evaluation of detailed productive partnership proposals; (ix) establish agreements with representatives
of approved productive partnerships and trust fund companies for the administration of the Modular
Incentive; (x) arrange for the contracting of the external auditors of the project; (xi) arrange for the
contracting of an independent firm to evaluate the effects and impacts of productive partnerships; (xii)
ensure compliance with agreed norms and procedures specified in the Loan Agreement; and (xiii) interact
with the World Bank regarding all project related themes, including the preparation and presentation of
reports and no-objection requests and the coordination of supervision missions.
Project Implementation. To support the preparation of productive partnership proposals and to facilitate
the implementation of approved productive partnership subprojects, TA providers would have an important
role under the project. These organizations would be preferably NGOs or consulting firms and comply
with minimum eligibility criteria established in the PPS Manual of the project. Productive partnership
participants could select eligible TA providers from a long list established by PCG. TA providers would
be contracted by the Cooperation Agency, following instructions from PCG. TA providers may either form
consortiums with other organizations or request that PCG allows outsourcing to subcontract some
specialized services in the preparation of productive partnership proposals for which they would not have
in-house capacity (detailed eligibility criteria and TORs are presented in Annex 2 and Annex 11).
Productive Partnerships. In order to put in practice the principle of self-management by productive
partnership participants, the Modular Incentive provided under the project through cost sharing transfers
would be disbursed into a trust account managed by a trust company supervised by the Superintendent of
Banks. The beneficiaries of this trust would be the members of the small farmer producer organization
participating in the approved productive partnership. The trust company would receive instructions from
the Partnership Steering Committee, consisting of two members of the producer organization and two
representatives of the participating agribusiness. This committee would have authority to use the resources
of the trust fund according to the approved investment plan of the productive partnership. Beneficiaries
would have a share in the trust, which they would lose if they leave the partnership before the
implementation plan has been completed. Said plan would most likely outlive the spending of the Modular
Incentive, and most likely last during the life of any loans guaranteed by the trust and would be previously
agreed upon by the various partners. Once the partnership subproject has been implemented according to
the cooperation agreement, ownership of the assets will be distributed among the beneficiaries in
accordance with their shares unless another agreement is reached; e.g. distribution of all assets to a
cooperative.
- 15 -



Procurement. MADR, through PCG, would be responsible for procurement. A Cooperation Agency
would be contracted to assist in procurement and administrative services (except for cost-sharing transfers),
following a competitive process.
Under the cost-sharing transfers to support productive partnership subprojects, funds would be transferred
into a trust fund account held in the name of the productive partnership beneficiaries at a trust company.
The trust company would effect disbursements according to the terms contained in the cooperation
agreement signed by the Partnership Steering Committee and PCG. The Partnership Steering Committee
would cany out the needed procurement of works, goods and services being financed according to the
agreed implementation plan. The PPS Manual will contain, in addition to eligibility criteria and other
aspects, the procurement procedures to be followed.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements. MADR, through PCG, would be
responsible for all financial management aspects of the project. During project appraisal, a financial
management assessment has been conducted in accordance with OD/BP 10.02 to define the required
support to MADR to effectively assume all financial management functions along the lines as spelled out in
Annex 6. An action plan has been agreed that would bring the financial management capacity of MADR in
line with Bank requirements.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Three other project alternatives were considered but were rejected largely because they addressed the
development objectives of the project in a non-integral way.
The first alternative consisted of a project focused on market-assisted land reform and the impact it would
have on income and assets of eligible land reform beneficiaries. This alternative was not pursued because
the Government does not consider land reform as the key driver of its rural development policy as presented
in the National Development Plan 1998-2002. However land reform is not completely out of the picture, as
the project envisages to facilitate access to land for the landless rural population involved in productive
partnership subprojects.
The second alternative was to propose a rural finance project as access to long-term capital has been cited
as a leading constraint to more productive agriculture in the country. The reason for rejection centered
around the realization that finance is an important but not sufficient condition to ensure agricultural growth
though the promotion of productive projects. In this context, it should be noted that FINAGRO did lend
$1.02 trillion pesos of the $1.2 trillion pesos (US$522 million) allocated in 2000. And while this represents
a significant increase over the previous two years; approximately 23% of the loans represented restructured
debt that formed part of a debt forgiveness program designed to promote agricultural growth. In addition,
this project alternative did not address the issue of violence which is critical if sustainable growth in the
countryside is to be achieved.
The third alternative was to design a project that involved exclusively the public sector and would not aim
to stimulate private investment in agriculture. However, it was soon recognized that the public sector did
not have the financial resources nor technical experience to provide the conditions necessary to facilitate
productive agricultural projects.  The private sector would be able to provide these resources and
- 16 -



knowledge in a more cost-effective manner. It was also recognized that the private sector may also be
unwilling to invest in certain areas where the perceived risks are too high. In these cases farmer
organizations and Government would need to assume greater responsibility. The project design provides
this flexibility.
Rationale for Lending Instrument. Although it was originally proposed to develop an Adaptable
Program Loan that could be used as a vehicle to implement agreements for rural development reached in
the context of the peace negotiation process, this idea was dropped during project preparation as the
volatility of the peace negotiation process made it impractical to define a realistic long term vision for rural
development in Colombia.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Poverty reduction and peace       Colombia: Magdalena Medio         S             S
(4371)
Poverty reduction and peace       Colombia: Peasant Enterprises     S             S
LIL
Violence                          Violence in Colombia: Building
Sustainable Peace and Social
Capital; ESW
Rural development                 Colombia: Rural Development       S             S
Investment Program (3250)
Rural development                 Colombia: Rural Development
Investment Program (3250)
Agriculture                       Colombia: Agriculture             S             S
Technology (6880)
Other development agencies
IDB - peace and poverty reduction  Investment Fund for Peace
IDB - poverty reduction           Micro-enterprise Program
IDB - poverty reduction           Employment Generation
Program
IFAD - poverty reduction          Rural Micro-enterprise
Development Project
1P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design integrates several important development themes based in part on lessons learned from
related projects. These lessons include:
Rural development. The project specifically build on lessons learnt from the Rural Development
Investment Program (RDIP) in Colombia which was financed by the Bank from 1990-94 ICR No. 16721;
Colombia - Rural Development Investment Program (Loan 3250-CO). These are as follows: (i) a flexible,
open design is needed for programs targeted to local governments due to the enormous diversity of capacity
- 17 -



and socio-econoniic conditions in Colombia; (ii) a simple monitoring and control system should be in place
from the start of the operation in order to rapidly identify and correct problems; (iii) it is advisable to
separate monitoring and evaluation functions, and rely on an independent agency to conduct periodic
impact evaluations; and (iv) the process of designing subprojects should be highly participatory, drawing
on the contributions of municipal governments and local campesino organizations.
Social capital. A main objective of the project is to develop social capital in conflict areas in Colombia.
The Magdalena Medio and Peasant Enterprise Zones LILs highlight a number of challenges on this topic.
One of the most important is the complexity of the armed conflict and difficulties in overcoming ideological
differences and creating mutual interest around development programs. The importance of identifying an
impartial group (like the Consortium) in getting a close feel of the dynamics with a particular location
should not be underestimated.
Violence. The recent sector work on violence in Colombia sheds light on the key development constraint in
the country today. The report provides a conceptual framework that identifies a continuum of violence,
their underlying causes, and interventions recommended to reduce violence.  The importance of
partnerships and small-scale, 'bottom-up' projects are two important findings from the report that have
been incorporated into the project design.
Land ownership. The proposed project design is based upon several lessons learned from recent
experience in Colombia on market-assisted land reform. These lessons stress the importance of: (i)
implementing land reform through voluntary deals between willing buyers and interested sellers rather than
through administrative procedures followed by bureaucrats; (ii) providing a subsidy for a package of
investments including land, on-farm complementary infrastructure, inputs and technical assistance aimed at
the establishment of viable family farms rather than only subsidizing a transfer of land; (iii) using
mechanisms of social control in a decentralized setting for transparent selection of beneficiaries rather than
administrative procedures applied in far-away bureaucratic and politicized agencies; (iv) not obliging
beneficiaries to farm collectively; and (v) ensuring an enabling policy and regulatory environment to avoid
that land reform is only a one-time redistribution.
Agriculture and Partnerships.   The setting up of a development process based on Productive
Partnerships requires that proper mechanisms are set in place to provide participating farmers with
"independent" sources of technical assistance that can be used to counterbalance excessive monopoly
situations and relationships with suppliers and buyers. It is also necessary to define the contractual and
arbitration and conflict resolution mechanisms, which would guarantee the imnplementation of the
partnerships, as well as operational methodologies and monitoring and supervision mechanisms that would
ensure transparency in financial transactions and provision by government of matching grants.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The project fits well within the rural policy framework established by MADR as it aims to facilitate
investments in agriculture by building on the concept of partnerships as pursued under the PROAGRO
program. In a larger context, the project is related to the Countryside in Action Program (el Campo en
Acci6n) coordinated by the Investmnent Fund for Peace within the context of the Plan for Peace, Prosperity
and Strengthening of the State as defined by the Government of Colombia in 1999.
The formulation of prototype productive partnerships by the Agricultural Development Unit in the National
Planning Department (NPD) together with MADR as part of the project preparation process has generated
strong interest both at the local as well as the national level from the private sector as well as participating
- 18-



campesino organizations.  The presentation and discussion of these prototypes in the Consultative
Committee has been met with favorable reactions from the financial sector, national producer organizations
and other public sector organizations involved in rural development. This experience has enabled the NPD
and MADR put the concept of productive partnerships in the priority list for public investments in an
otherwise constrained public budget. The latter is evidenced by the fact that the project has been allocated
fiscal space to initiate its operation in 2002.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The economic and political situation in Colombia today is clearly one fraught with challenges. A strong
argument can be made for the World Bank to step up assistance at this time of need and provide support to
the Government for projects promoting development and peace, specially when private and foreign
investments have been reduced. In effect, the Bank has done so last year when it pledged its support to the
social aspects of the Plan for Peace, Prosperity and Strengthening of the State.
Bank participation would leverage international expertise in demand-driven rural investment programs,
crop production models, partnerships between local communities and the private sector, formation of social
capital (e.g. strengthening farmer cooperatives) and land reform. Both the acquisition of loans by producer
organizations as well as the proposal that at least a portion of the modular incentive be repaid to the trust
for further investment either in the project or social investments deemed necessary by the Steering
Committee of the Partnership, require that microfinance mechanisms be introduced into the development
and implementation phases of the subprojects. Colombia has had relatively few successful microfinance
experiences particularly in rural areas, and the project will need apply results from other Bank experiences
in this area. This should be done in coordination with microfinance development currently being
coordinated between the Bank, DNP and MADR. Moreover, the project would build upon the Bank's
significant experience in the rural development sector in Colombia: community participation and
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms in the Magdalena Medio LIL; negotiated land reform through initial
preparation of a proposed Market-Assisted Land Reform Support investment project; and demand-driven
rural investment programs in the Peasant Enterprises LIL. Finally, the Bank's involvement in the project
also reflects an increasingly important partnership with the Colombian Government to address issues of
rural violence and can draw upon the recently completed sector work on violence: Violence in Colombia:
Building Sustainable Peace and Social Capital.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = 12 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The economic argument for this project is that the package of incentives and interventions will encourage
farmers and agribusiness to undertake productive agricultural projects as partners. The direct effects of this
investrnent consist of income and employment opportunities for farmers and subsequent improvements in
standards of living.  Indirect effects such as enhanced social cohesion or environmentally-friendly
approaches to agriculture will not be valued at this time but will be identified and described qualitatively.
Because of the demand-driven nature of the project and given the range of possible productive partnership
subprojects, it is not known at the onset of the project which type of subprojects will actually be financed
an in which proportion. Therefore, a total of six different prototype productive partnerships were
formulated as part of the project preparation process to form the basis for the economic and financial
- 19 -



analysis. These partnerships included a variety of crops/products, including palm oil, cacao, dairy,
agro-forestry and vegetables.
After conducting a financial analysis at the prototype level, the economic analysis was conducted by
making two adjustments: (i) inclusion (or exclusion) of certain costs and benefits and (ii) revaluation of
costs and benefits to their social opportunity costs. More specifically, these adjustments are including costs
borne by the municipality or by the project, removing transfer payments such as those resulting from
financing, taxes, or subsidies, and using shadow prices to convert financial flows to economic flows in
order to reflect the social opportunity cost of land and labor. The NPV of the economic resource flows was
calculated using a 12% discount rate.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = 15 % (see Annex 4)
The financial analysis was conducted from the perspective of an individual farmer based on data collected
from field observations and discussions with the farmer cooperatives and agribusiness. The cost of land
was derived from local land sale or rental markets (where available). The analysis includes conservative
estimates of the fixed costs related to the preparation and improvement of the land and the variable costs
associated with the cultivation of the crops. The benefits were determined also based on conservative
estimates of long-term productivity and crop prices. The financing required was also estimated for each
prototype and may include a commercial loan, a loan from the agribusiness firm in the partnership, farmer
savings (if available), and the incentivo modular. The net cash flow and liquidity ratio (ability of the
farmer to adequately meet debt repayments) was also calculated. The net present value (NPV) of the
financial cash flows (before and after credit and other supports) was calculated using a 12% discount rate.
The results of the financial analysis indicate that the FRR for all prototype partnerships exceeds 15%.
Although the analysis shows that there are viable investment opportunities in the rural sector, small farmers
have difficulties accessing credit from commercial banks to finance these opportunities. This apparent
paradox on one hand is caused by imperfections in the rural credit market and on the other hand by the
fragile security situation in the rural areas which imposes an external cost to these opportunities. To the
extent that productive partnership subprojects contribute in improving the security situation, as well as
favorable environmental impacts resulting from better planning that optimizes the use of scarce natural
resources, thereby generating an external benefit, public sector support as proposed through the Modular
Incentive, could be justified to break the vicious circle which exist in credit markets and land use.
Under the project, productive partnership subproject proposals would be evaluated based on their economic
and financial viability. Each subproject proposal would contain a simplified financial and economic
analysis based on a pre-defined template. Key assumptions would be assessed and a minimum FRR and
ERR of 15% and 12% respectively would be required as well as positive NPVs at 15 and 12% discount
rates.
Sensitivity Analysis: Sensitivity analysis was conducted on both the financial and economic analysis. The
following major risks were assessed through sensitivity analysis: (i) crop price; (ii) exchange rate; and (iii)
interest rate. Multiple risk analysis was also conducted to estimate more accurately the expected economic
and financial returns of the prototype partnerships.
Fiscal Impact:
Over a five year implementation project implementation period, the Government of Colombia would
contribute US$20.3 million of which US$1.4 million would be covered through recuperation of income and
- 20 -



sales taxes levied on the expenditures made under the project. Income tax revenues from incremental
profitability of on-farm production would be negligible given the low level of income of the target
population and the plethora of tax exemptions for agricultural activities.
3. Technical:
The experience generated under the prototype productive partnership subprojects has enabled the
development of specific instruments that are being incorporated in the PPS Manual. These include: (i) an
appropriate format for the presentation of productive partnership subprojects, including procedures for the
various type of assessments to be conducted in the subproject preparation stage; (iii) evaluation criteria to
assess the feasibility of productive partnership subproject proposals; (iii) a standard cooperation agreement
to be signed between project and productive partnership associates; and (iv) proposed training guidelines
for productive partnership associates.
The experience under the prototype productive partnership subprojects has also generated a large number
of lessons learned that are being used to further specify and refine the PPS Manual These include:
*   The need for independent technical assistance and training to small farmers participating in productive
partnerships to counterbalance existing market power of buyers and suppliers.
*   The need for conflict resolution procedures to be included in the productive partnership agreements.
*   The need for including post-harvest losses in the underlying farm models for the financial analysis.
*   The need to explicitly specify the time frame required to obtain expected results.
*   The need to differentiate the proposed technology to different typologies of beneficiaries, in case they
represent a wide range of different groups.
*   The need to specify the responsibilities of the technical assistance provider to the productive
partnerships vis-a-vis the technical advice from input suppliers to productive partnership associates;
this in light of the recommendations from the Global IPM Facility.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
In order to keep all institutional institutions options open, it was decided by the Government of Colombia
that the National Planning Department would take a lead in the preparation of the Project. This was done
through the Agricultural Development Unit in this institution. During project preparation it became clear
that MADR would be the most appropriate executing agency as the project would fit well with its
PROAGRO program. The Agricultural Development Unit has maintained close collaboration with the
Ministry during the project preparation process. MADR has experience with Bank financed projects and
currently has two projects under implementation: (i) Agricultural Technology Development Project; and
(ii) the Peasant Enterprise Zones Development LIL.
4.2 Project management:
A Project Coordination Group (PCG) in MADR would be responsible for project execution at the
operational level. PCG would consist of a team of dedicated professionals with relevant disciplinary
backgrounds for the purposes of the Project. In order to maintain a strictly technical focus at this level of
the project, operational procedures to be included in the Project Administrative Manual would be designed
in such a way that: (i) the selection of professionals is done on an objective basis in a transparent and
competitive manner; and (ii) PCG has the authority to operate independently within the agreed annual
operative plans.
Since most activities supported by the project will in fact be implemented by external parties such as
- 21 -



technical assistance providers, councils of partnership associates, trust companies and the like, it is
important that PCG has sufficient and adequate public communication skills and capacity to systematically
convey project operational procedures and their rationale. In light of the fragile security situation,
web-based project-stakeholder interfaces should be explored to the extent feasible.
4.3 Procurement issues:
MADR, through PCG, would be responsible for procurement. A procurement assessment was conducted
during project appraisal and has been incorporated in the project files. The assessment indicates the
necessary staffmng of PCG and steps to be taken to comply with Bank procurement requirements. The
overall procurement risk assessment rating is Average.
A Cooperating Agency would be hired for contracting and payment purposes under the project. Hiring of
such agency would follow a competitive process. Given the decentralized nature of the productive
partnership subproject implementation arrangements, management and administration of the cost sharing
transfer would not be handled by the Cooperating Agency.
Procurement of goods and services under the productive partnership subprojects would be carried out by
the Productive Partnership Steering Committee with the support of technical assistance providers
contracted under the project. Procedures would be specified in the PPS Manual. These procedures would
typically require price comparison of three price quotations, allowing sole-sourcing in cases where only one
supplier exists in the area. Contracting and payment of service providers and suppliers would be done by
trust companies contracted under the project to manage individual trusts. The PPS Manual would include:
(i) standard cooperation agreements acceptable to the Bank between the project and productive partnership
associates; and (ii) contracts between the project and trust companies. Expenditures under the cost sharing
transfer category of the loan would be subject to approval of the Productive Partnership Subproject Manual
by the Bank.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A financial management assessment was carried during appraisal and conducted in accordance with
OD/BP 10.02 (see Annex 6 and Project Files for details). For the purposes of financial management, it
was agreed that the Project Administrative Manual would include, inter alia: (i) specification of the
responsibilities of PCG in financial management; (ii) a chart of accounts in accordance with Bank
requirements; (iii) design of an assets and inventory management and control system; (iv) design of intemal
controls regarding staffing, transactions, accounting, etc.; and (v) training program on financial
management for relevant project personnel. A financial management action plan, which aims to bring the
financial management capacity of the MADR in line with the requirements of the Bank regarding the use of
PMRs through the establishment of an integrated financial information system by March 31, 2003 was also
agreed.
The Cooperating Agency would have a financial management system acceptable to the Bank. To facilitate
agility in the implementation of productive partnership subprojects, special attention would be paid to
ensure that the cooperation agreement between the partnership associates and PCG specifies financial
management responsibilities in accordance with the notion of empowerment and self-management.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
During project preparation, six enviTonmental assessments for the pilot productive systems were prepared
by local consultants, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The reports consisted of an
-22 -



environmental impact assessment, an alternative technology assessment and an environmental mitigation
plan. The lessons learned from contracting, implementing and reviewing these EAs have been used to
design the environmental assessment methodology for the project and to design specific environmental
activities which were identified as priorities.  This project will likely result in both a shift in crop
cultivation to high-margin, permanent crops and expansion of agricultural lands. One objective of the
project is to reduce pressure on land caused by environmentally unsustainable agricultural practices, such
as misuse of agro-chemicals, cultivating annual crops in frontier areas and raising livestock in an
unsustainable fashion. Nevertheless, production and expansion of both permanent and transitory crops
could result in negative environmental impacts from, among others, construction of roads and other
infrastructure, technology changes in processing phases, changes in use of pesticides, potential
encroachment on natural habitats, etc. Many negative effects of subprojects will be avoided by following a
detailed methodology for environmental screening and assessment. Any remaining negative impacts will be
mitigated through use of operational manuals, guidelines and development of environmental management
plans, all to be financed by the project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Most negative environmental impacts will be mitigated through the implementation of guidelines and
manuals. However, all subprojects will undergo at least an initial screening of potential negative
environmental impacts.
The underlying premise of the proposed environmental assessment methodology is to keep the
environmental assessment procedure simple and effective. The methodology relies heavily on the use of
checklists and matrices, and only in rare cases requires in-depth environmental assessment.  The
environmental assessment responsibilities are divided amongst various institutions in order to ensure
adequate capacity. This division of labor will also serve as a system of checks and balances. The project
includes an environmental awareness and education campaign for the communities requesting funds. Prior
to effectiveness, the project team will work with the environmental specialist in PCG to fully develop the
specific tools (such as matrices, etc.) to be used during the EA process.
The EA methodology is detailed in the Environmental Annex to the PAD (Annex 12). Following the
guidance set forth in the Environmental Guidelines for Social Funds, the project will: i) check subproject
against certain eligibility criteria (including the negative list of category A projects, and others that the
Bank does not finance, i.e. tobacco); ii) review the subproject to ensure it is in accordance with the land use
plans of the area; iii) use a predefined matrix which identifies possible environmental impacts of various
production activities, determining whether an EIA is required (rare), a limited EA (common), or no EA at
all (rare); and, (iv) undertake the EIA or limited EA and come up with an environmental management plan
based on the results. Monitoring of the EMP will be done by the community, with oversight from PCG and
technical assistance providers.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: June 30, 2001
All productive partnerships subprojects will be those that the Bank normally classifies as either B or C; all
subprojects that would normally be classified as A by the Bank will be excluded from financing. The
detailed institutional framework and EA methodology for this is described in the Environmental Annex
(Annex 12).
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Since the subprojects are demand-driven, most stakeholders will be involved from the onset. However, in
- 23 -



the EA process, numerous opportunities exist to expand the audience, but at the least, the EIAs and limited
EAs will be publicly discussed. Additionally, environmental impact monitoring plans will be managed in
large part by the communities. An educational campaign is planned which will reach beyond the immediate
beneficiaries of the project. Reporting on environmental performance will be made public.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
PCG will follow up on all identified mitigation measures, ensuring proper implementation and potentially
negotiating with communities for additional activities, should unforeseen environmental impacts occur.
The environmental specialist in PCG will decide on the reporting requirements from each of the
subprojects (to be part of the EMP) in order to effectively monitor implementation. In turn, PCG will
produce semi-annual reports on the EA process and monitoring success. These reports will be submitted to
an independent extemal evaluator in order to facilitate the impact evaluation of the project, and also to the
Bank as part of supervision missions.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
As part of the preparation process for the project, a social assessment was conducted for each of the six
productive partnership prototypes. The reports of these assessments with detailed information on each of
the prototypes can be consulted in the Project Files. A detailed synthesis is presented in Annex 11.
In general terms, the results of the social assessments indicate that productive partnerships provide
participating partners the opportunity to satisfy their own interest in a relationship that is interdependent
and creates a win-win situation for all parties involved. That is, the need for higher levels of productivity
and competitiveness of the firms, and the need for more secure levels of income and access to productive
assets by the small producers. The partnership is more than a contract to the extent that it assumes
convergence of interests, complementarity of contributions and shared risks to achieve the objective.
More specifically, the studies show some common features: (i) the interest of all parties is notorious in the
establishment of a partnership which has the potential to help solve the problems of the different parties of
the value chain and is fueled by the interest to receive support from the project; (ii) the degree of
collaboration between the agribusiness firms and producer associations varies, but the tendency is for the
associations to allow the firms to lead; (iii) the specific requirements of the business itself impose
conditions to which all have to concede, particularly those with less power; and (iv) there is awareness on
the side of the firms that their contribution to the partnerships goes beyond the provision of a contract to the
associations. In addition, they recognize that this type of collaborative arrangement has the potential to
improve the living conditions of the rural poor and to mitigate social tensions. This view is widely shared
by the members of the associations and other relevant stakeholders.
The experience of the social assessments conducted under the prototype productive partnership subprojects
has also generated a number of lessons leamed that are being used to further specify and refine the PPS
Manual. These include:
* In order for productive partnerships to be models of collaboration there is a need to define partnerships
beyond mere contractual arrangements through the definition of a shared long term vision, while at the
same time expected contributions of participating associates to realize this vision should be based on
realistic projections of improvements in existing capacity to do so.
* Timing of the social assessment is important as there is a tendency by the partnership associates to
- 24 -



focus on the technical and economic aspects of the partnerships.
*   There is a need to go beyond a static description of the social aspects related to productive partnerships
to a more dynamic analysis that based on the expected responsibilities of small farmer producer
organizations in the implementation of agreed productive partnerships indicates institutional strengths
and weakness and corresponding priorities for local capacity building.
*   Given the potential conflicts of interests between productive partnership associates, there is a need to
incorporate a well-defined conflict resolution mechanism in the cooperation agreement between project
and partnership associates.
During appraisal the lessons of the experience of the social assessments of the prototype partnerships were
examined. Based on those lessons, project beneficiary eligibility criteria were confirmed as well as social
selection and prioritization criteria for subproject profiles and proposals (see Annex 11 for details). In
order to improve the probability of success of subprojects, the track record (e.g. labor, financial,
environmental) of the participating firm as well as its commitment to transfer knowledge and information to
the participating small farmer producer organization were also included in the subproject eligibility criteria.
Model terms of reference for social assessments have been specified and will be incorporated in the
Productive Partnerships Subproject Manual.
As the project is designed to be implemented in a demand-driven fashion, participation is entirely
voluntarily. Given the low level of education of the rural poor, care has been taken so that beneficiary
eligibility criteria do not put too much weight on education as a minimum qualifying criteria in order to
avoid that too many potential participants would disqualify; rather, the technical assistance provider should
help identify alternatives accessible to farmers and focus beneficiary selection on efforts to comply with
educational requirements. To promote the inclusion of landless poor as beneficiaries in the project, the
Modular Incentive provides an additional incentive for the purchase of land in the context of agreed
productive partnerships. To promote the participation of organized indigenous groups, Afro-Colombians
and displaced people, the project would adopt a policy of affirmative action under which compliance with
beneficiary eligibility criteria would be waived so as to not break the cultural norms that bind them
together.
These productive partnerships would foster empowerment and self-management for project implementation.
However, the project would not directly resolve social or armed conflict. It creates a niche within a territory
in which productive activities are undertaken as a joint venture between peasants and agribusinesses.
Partnerships of this type create social capital, contributing to the reduction of social tensions .
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The primary stakeholders of the project are poor rural families who will select themselves to enter into
partnerships with firms and the firms themselves. Productive partnerships empower stakeholders to take the
implementation of the activities in their own hands and to seize the responsibility as agents of their own
change. The construction of the partnership is itself a participatory process which involves intense
interaction among the partners, capacity building to gain understanding and abilities, and negotiation of the
rules of action for the enterprise. At the end, there is a formal agreement signed by the parties, which
includes a conflict-resolution mechanism agreed upon by them. The participatory model of empowerment
for development embedded in the productive partnership concept emphasizes a group approach. It focuses
on the formation or strengthening of producer associations leading to self-management by stakeholders at
the local level.  It establishes linkages with private enterprises through a variety of collaborative
arrangements that create a win-win situation for all participating parties. Overall, it contributes to the
fornation of social capital, to the increase of rural household incomes, and to the reduction of social,
political and economic violence.
- 25 -



6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
At the national level, a Technical Committee would be established in MADR. The National Technical
Committee would ensure consistency of project implementation with agreed conceptual and technical
design. This Committee would also include a representative of small farmer organizations and a
representative of agricultural producer organizations. At the local level, the project would rely on NGOs
and other service providers to provide technical assistance to small farmers producer organizations as
associates in preparation and implementation of subprojects.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
As a critical factor in the promotion of this participatory approach of partnership building, the project
would include an information sharing and communications strategy to motivate primary stakeholders, and
promote public support and social control of project activities. This strategy would ensure that (i) potential
beneficiaries know the eligibility criteria, their rationale and ways of accessing the project benefits; (ii)
relevant stakeholder leam and become familiar with how the project works and how to fulfill their role in it;
and (iii) citizens exercise control over project activities. The project would be positioned as an instrument
of providing development assistance aimed at creating opportunities for those capable to meet the minimum
requirements and with a certain entrepreneurial vocation. The operational arrangements of using trust
accounts managed by the partnership associates to implement the productive partnership subproject is in
line with the empowerment and self management model promoted under the project.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The productive partnership subproject proposal itself would provide a baseline that could be used as a
benchmark for monitoring conducted by the TA provider during the implementation stage of the subproject.
The frequency in the use of the agreed conflict resolution mechanisms would also enable the project to
closely follow-up whether approved productive partnership subprojects are moving in the right direction or
not. In addition, it is foreseen that the project would contract and independent evaluator to assess the
effects and impacts of productive partnerships, once completed.  This assessment would involve
participation of project beneficiaries through focus group discussions and would be complemented with
quantitative impact analysis methods.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     * Yes C No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  O Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             C Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
- 26 -



The project would not finance productive partnership subprojects that would imply an environmental
category A classification. Proposed location of subprojects would be verified with municipal land use
plans (planes municipales de ordenamiento territorial). Project procedures and eligibility criteria would
be widely disseminated through a public information campaign.  Productive partnership subproject
proposals would be evaluated by a panel of external experts, including an environmental specialist. PCG
would include a professional with environmental assessment expertise.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The economic and financial analyses will provide information on the overall viability of the productive
partnership subprojects. The cost recovery mechanism that will be promoted for the Modular Incentive
will take advantage of the flexibility of trust law, which, in lieu of the onerous restrictions applied by
Colombian banking law to community savings vehicles could provide an alternative to better link small
farmers with the formal financial sector, thereby contributing to the creation of a more conducive financial
environment for future investments. The application of beneficiary eligibility criteria will help ensure that
the benefits of these subprojects accrue to low-income yet disenfranchised groups. This focus will help
ensure that the subprojects are viewed favorably by insurgent groups and thereby reduce the risk of their
interference.  With respect to the environment, detailed guidelines have been specified as to the
requirements for EA review and approval for subprojects (see Annex 12). It is also believed that the long
term viability of productive partnership subprojects will be enhanced by taking into account the labor,
financial and environmental track record of interested private sector partners in the subproject selection
process.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assurnptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating              Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The armed groups prevent partnerships         H          Effective public information campaign about all
from working effectively.                                relevant aspects of the project.
Promote geographical dispersion of productive
partnerships portfolio .
Project benefits do not accrue to rural       S          Effective public information campaign to
poor due to poor targeting and/or the fact               communicate eligibility criteria to interested
that partnerships reinforce asymmetry in                 potential participants.
power and farmers find themselves in
"patron-client" relationships with private               Training to small farmers who participate in
firms.                                                   productive partnership subprojects.
Independent technical assistance as
"countervailing power".
Technical assistance providers                M          PCG to be very selective on the contracting of
insufficiently knowledgeable about                       TA providers, which would be encouraged to
agribusiness and participatory planning.                 form alliances with overseas companies in case
they would lack expertise
There is not sufficient social capital to     S          Invite expressions of interest for the preparation
agree on a common and shared vision for                  of subprojects from a large audience in order to
- 27 -



local development.                                       have more choice in the selection of
pre-investment support.
Banking sector unwilling to provide           H          Structure productive partnership subprojects in
long-term finance for crop production.                   such a way as to minimize debt financing.
Structure required debt financing based on
group lending and using participating
agribusiness as retention agent.
From Components to Outputs
Timely availability of counterpart funds.     M          Counterpart funds would be primarily used to
finance purchase of land. Lack of counterpart
funds therefore would not affect overall project
implementation, but hamper participation of
landless poor in the project.
Budget allocation and execution               M          Participation of Director of NPD in the National
procedures are time-consuming and                        Technical Committee might facilitate timely
complex.                                                 conclusion of burdensome budgeting process.
Lack of commitment to maintain highest         S         Ensure competent staff hiring and adequate
professional standards in project staff                 training through an agreed objective and
selection.                                               transparent process.
Overall Risk Rating                           5
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Producer organizations receiving costs sharing transfers as seed capital for productive partnership
subprojects may misuse the funds and generate public controversies. The use of trust fund
companies for contracting and payment of service providers and suppliers and the use of Technical
Assistance Providers to endorse disbursement requests from the partnerships to the project are
geared to mitigate this risk.
In case productive partnership subprojects do not generate the expected results and positive
outcomes, conflict may arise between participating associates and other relevant parties (e.g. banks
that provided a loan). This might worsen the already fragile security situation in rural areas. In
order to reduce this risk, the project would aim to generate a large pool of subprojects by not
restricting its geographical coverage. By doing so it would be in a position to select those proposals
that have the highest chance of success. In addition, the project would not support productive
partnership subprojects with financing plans that indicate excessive levels of indebtedness by
participating small farmers. Also the public information campaign supported under the project will
raise awareness and knowledge regarding financial obligations, particularly those related to debt
acquired with commercial banks, among interested small scale producers.
- 28 -



Elements of project management may become corrupted thereby damaging the credibility of the
project. This risk is mitigated by applying objective and transparent criteria in the selection process
of professionals for PCG and by conducting a public information campaign which provides relevant
stakeholders with sufficient information to exercise control over project activities.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*  Adoption of the Project Administrative Manual acceptable to the Bank.
*  Presentation of the first year Project Implementation Plan acceptable to the Bank.
* Effectiveness of the Cooperating Agency agreement acceptable to the Bank.
*  Establishment of the Project Coordination Group with staff acceptable to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Appraisal:
Based on available draft documentation presented by the National Planning Department, the
following aspects were agreed during appraisal:
*   Confirmation of composition of National Technical Committee.
3   Confirmation of the composition of PCG and selection procedures.
3   Confirmation of draft TORs an contractual arrangement for TA providers for both the
preparation and implementation of productive partnerships subprojects.
3   Confirmation of terms and conditions of Cooperation Agreement between partnership associates
and the project; including composition of Productive Partnership Steering Committee.
3   Confirmation of draft TORs for trust companies with respect to the management of cost sharing
transfers.
3   Confirmation of draft TORs for Expressions of Interest by TA providers for the purpose of
establishing a long list of qualified institutions.
3   Confirmation of beneficiary eligibility criteria for special population groups, and draft TORs of
social assessment.
i   Confirmation of the methodology for financial and economic analysis of productive partnership
subprojects.
*   Confirmation of the scope and seize of the Modular Incentive, including procedures to support
the purchase of land.
*   Confirmation of the environmental assessment methodology and actions to ensure appropriate
institutional capacity at the project level.
* Confirmation of draft TORs with respect to the panel of external experts for the evaluation of
productive partnership subproject proposals.
*   Confirmation of draft TORs for the contracting of an external institution for effect and impact
evaluation.
*  Confirmation of procurement plan and procurement procedures by conducting a procurement
assessment.
* Confirmation of draft TORs of external auditors and specification of other financial
management aspects (reporting, plan of accounts, internal controls etc.) through a financial
management assessment.
- 29 -



Negotiations:
The following documents were received before negotiations
*   Draft Productive Partnerships Subproject Manual
*   Draft Project Administrative Manual
*   Draft Presidential Decree to formalize agreement (scope, size, implementation arrangements)
regarding Modular Incentive
Disbursement Conditions
Expenditures to be made under the cost sharing transfer category of the loan would be subject to:
*   Adoption of the Productive Partnerships Subproject Manual, acceptable to the Bank;
* Establishment of an integrated financial management in accordance with Bank requirements;
and
*   Signing of the Modular Incentive Decree regulating the cost sharing transfer system.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
OI 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Finalization and adoption of the Project Administrative Manual, the first year implementation plan,
effectiveness of the Cooperation Agency agreement and the establishment of the PCG.
- 30 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
_   _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _             ez Q L4e )   jS            _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _
Pierre Werbrouck                       Redwood                       Olivier Lafourcade
Team Leader                       Sector Director                    Country Director
- 31 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
COLOMBIA: PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS SUPPORT PROJECT
A  KeyPerformance;    Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators        _     _     _     _        Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:     Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve living conditions of Unemployment in      Government statistics and   Despite fiscal crisis,
the rural poor by addressing subproject areas reduced by household surveys  macro-economic and sector
the causes of poverty and   10% in comparison with                         policies are not biased
violence                 2001 regional indicators                          against the rural poor.
People living under the  Household surveys, poverty Higher income and
poverty line within     studies                   employment added to
subproject area is reduced                       strengthened social cohesion
by 20%                                            reduces forms of economic
and social violence
Increased collaboration  Agricultural sector reports
between small farmers and
agribusiness in rural areas
Agricultural sector reports
Increased know-how of
small farmers through
strategic alliances
- 32 -



Key Performance      Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives       Indicators                               | Critical Assumptions
Project Development     Outcome I Impact         Project reports:       (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
To generate income, create During 2002-2006     Subproject baseline and    Armed conflict does not
employment, and promote  producers participating in   monitoring results  interfere with project
social cohesion of poor  productive partnerships                         activities
rural communities in an    have increased their income
economic and environmental by 20% compared to the                        Macro economic policies
sustainable manner through baseline                                      favor rural development
the development and
implementation of a     By the end of the first  Subproject baseline and    Intemational markets
demand-driven, Productive  subproject year, small  monitoring results    remain accessible for
Partnership scheme with the producers / beneficiaries                    Colombian products and
private sector          have increased their income                      prices remain attractive
by two monthly minimum
salaries                                        Project benefits do not
accrue to rural poor due to
By the end of the project,  Subproject baseline and    poor targeting and/or the
employment in the       monitoring results      fact that partnerships
production units has                            reinforce asymmetry in
increased by 50% of which                       power and farmers find
40% is employment for                           themselves in
.    women.                                           "patron-client"relationships
Subproject baseline and    with private firms
By the end of the project,   monitoring results
agricultural productivity in
production units has
increased on average by
20% compared to regional
indicators              Project reports
100 productive partnerships
are formalized,
consolidated, are operating
in a sustainable manner and
contain conflict resolution   Monitoring reports
schemes.
All environmental
mitigation measures are
being implemented in
subprojects
- 33 -



Hlerarchyof Objectives        Indcators        [                          Critical Assumptions
Output from each        Output Indicators:       Project reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Small rural producers,  500 expressions of interest Project records      Sufficient social capital to
producer organizations,    received of which 50 come                     agree on a common and
local government, the   from special groups                              shared vision for local
agribusiness and financial  (indigenous,                                 development.
sectors are             afro-colombians, and
adequately informed about  displaced people)
scope, objectives and
procedures of the Project   300 subproject profiles
presented of which 30 from
excluded groups
225 subproject profiles are
adequate to enter into
pre-investment studies
Productive subprojects   150 subprojects formulated Project records and  TA providers sufficiently
designed in a           and evaluated with the right monitoring and evaluation   knowledgeable about
participatory manner,    financial backing taking into system reports    agribusiness and
evaluated to be feasible at account social and                           participatory planning
the economic, financial,  environmental criteria
social and environmental
level.
Productive Partnerships    100 Productive Partnerships Project records   Banking sector willing to
established and operating in established with 10,000                     provide long-term finance
an economic, financial,    beneficiary families of  Monitoring and evaluation  for crop production.
social and environmental   which 1000 are headed by  reports
sustainable way         women                                            Private sector is interested
External evaluations    to invest in high-risk
environments and develop
Productive Partnership  Audit reports            productive partnerships
investments present an
internal rate of return of at                    Beneficiaries are sufficiently
least 15% with a maximum                         organized and empowered to
bank credit of 35% of total                      resolve problems on their
liabilities                                      own and avoid paternalistic
relationships.
100 productive partnerships
reimburse their commercial
bank credit (if any) on time
and at a recovery rate of
90% or more
- 34 -



Project coordinated in an    Monitoring and evaluation  Bank supervision missions  Technical Committee does
efficient and cost effective  system properly operating                     not interfere with
manner                   and updated                                        operational responsibilities
of PCG.
Timely and unqualified
audits
Low staff turn over (<10%
per year)
Adherence to operational
manuals and loan agreement
Project implementation
according to plan
Subproject time cycle
properly monitored
Project Components I     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:       (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                         Outputs)
1. Preparation of Productive                                                Timely availability of
Partnerships Subprojects                                                    counterpart funds
1.1 Public Information          $200,000          Feedback from focus
Campaign, information                             groups
sharing regional workshops,
distribution of written
material, web site
1.2 Mobilization and            $300,000
screening of interest,
regional workshops,
training of potential
participants
1.3 Pre-Investment studies -  $4,000,000
contracts signed with TA                          Contracts registry
providers
1.4 Evaluation of             $1,400,000
Productive Partnership                            Proposals received
Proposals                       $300,000
- 35 -



1.5. Thematic Studies                             Studies
2. Implementation of
Productive Partnership
Subprojects
2.1 Cost Sharing Transfers    $ 39,600,000        Subproject approval records Budget allocation and
execution procedures are
2.2 Technical Assistance to    $ 1,500,000        Semestral monitoring     quick and simple both on
Productive Partnership                           reports                   paper and in practice
Projects                                          Ex-post procurement
reviews
Feedback from Technical
Assistance Providers
Disbursement records of
Cost Sharing Transfers
3. Project Management
3.1 Project Coordination    $1,500,000            Management and financial  Government commitment to
Group                                             reports, procurement     maintain highest
records, contracts, audits   professional standards in
3.2. Management               $220,000            and evaluation reports   project staff selection.
Information System
3.3. Monitoring and           $369,500
Evaluation System
3.4. Financial Management     $120,000
System
3.5 Economic, financial,      $300,500
environmental and social
screening
3.6 Project Preparation and  $2,190,000
Pilot Operations
- 36-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
COLOMBIA: PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Background
The design of the project finds its roots in a pilot operation which focused on voluntary negotiated land
reform implemented under MADR with support from the World Bank from 1997-99 in five municipalities
(Fuente de Oro, Rivera, Puerto Wilches, Montelibano and San Benito Abad). Lessons learned stress the
following critical factors for the successful establishment of viable family farms: (i) adequate capacity for
self-management and conflict resolution by land reform beneficiaries; (ii) detailed description and
assessment of proposed production system; and (iii) access to relevant markets.
In 1999, with the Pastrana Administration stressing reactivation of the rural economy driven by the private
sector rather than a more narrowed focus on land reform for the rural poor, the emphasis shifted towards
preparing a program that would generate conditions for a more dynamic small-holder sector by stimulating
partnerships between small farmer producers organizations and agribusiness. Under the coordination of the
National Planning Department (NPD), with participation from MADR, a pragmatic approach to the
preparation of the new project was adopted by focusing on the establishment of a number of prototype
partnerships, or life cases, that would serve as vehicles for learning-by-doing.
A total of six prototype partnerships were developed during 1999-2000, including a total of about 400
small farmers with six agribusiness firms, covering a variety of different products (dairy, agro-forestry,
oil-palm, vegetables, corn and cacao) in different regions of Colombia (Meta, Cundinamarca, Huila, Cesar,
and Bolivar). To ensure that the project preparation process itself reflected the spirit of partnership
between the public and private sector, a consultative committee was formed with participation of private
firms, producer organizations and relevant public entities. The committee met on a regular basis to review
progress with respect to the preparation of prototype partnerships and provide feed-back to the preparation
team in NPD. The experiences generated through the prototype partnerships along with the involvement of
the consultative committee, provide the building blocks of the design of the project as presented below.
Project Concept
Since productive partnerships are the primary vehicles to achieve the stated objectives of the project, there
is a need to clarify them in conceptual terms. Under the project, a productive partnership is considered any
collaborative arrangement between a small farmer producer organization and an agribusiness firm that
aims to reduce technical, commercial, financial andlor social risks associated in pursuit of potential income
gains in a particular value-chain in a manner that creates a win-win situation for all participating parties.
Based on the experience of the prototype partnerships, this typically means that by entering into a
productive partnership, members of producer organizations obtain access to relevant markets, usually
output markets, but also critical inputs (e.g. high quality seed) or factor inputs (particularly credit for
working capital purposes). The advantages for agribusiness firms to enter into partnerships with producer
organizations typically include opportunities to expand food processing activities by securing supplies from
small producers that meet certain predetermined quality standards, without the need to expand own
production capacity. The project aims to support small farmers producer organizations in entering
productive partnerships with interested agribusiness firms.
Value chain analysis is a useful tool to identify to what extent the success of one party in the value-chain
depends on the success of others and vice-versa. Making these inter-dependencies more visible under the
- 37 -



project generates incentives for collaboration rather than confrontation. Productive partnerships supported
by the project are the visible results of recognizing these opportunities for collaboration by the different
parties in a particular value-chain.
The concept of productive partnerships takes current approaches to rural development a step further by
using the value chain rather than the farm as the analytical framework to assess the feasibility of potential
income generating opportunities for small farmers. By doing so, there is a greater chance that efforts to
support productivity increases at the farm level could be translated into income gains for rural families
trying to make a living from these farms.
The project design recognizes the limitations of the public sector as a service deliverer. Consequently,
support to the provision of technical assistance to small farmers by participating agribusiness firms in the
productive partnerships rather than by public sector agents is envisaged. By doing so, the concept of
productive partnerships provides participants the opportunity to seize responsibility as agents of change,
thereby putting in practice the participatory model of empowerment for development. The role of the
public sector is focused on providing incentives in the form of seed capital to build the asset base of the
participating producer organizations in productive partnerships. These incentives are justified given the
fact that security risks in most of the rural areas in Colombia currently constrain private investments in
agriculture and given the positive externalities that might be generated through productive partnerships by
generating a climate of collaboration.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$6.20 million
Supiport to the Preparation of Productive Partnerships
Under this component the project would support activities that are associated with: (i) information sharing;
(ii) mobilization of expressions of interest and subproject profile screening; (iii) pre-investment studies; (iv)
ex-ante evaluation of detailed productive partnership subproject proposals; and (v) thematic studies.
Information Sharing. This sub-component is to inform potential productive partnership participants and
other relevant stakeholders about the scope and the rules of the game of the project. To achieve this
objective, the project would finance: (i) publication of brochures and user-friendly versions of the PPS
Manual; (ii) organization of workshops and forums aimed at rural municipalities, producers organizations
and chambers of commerce; (iii) transmission of radio spots; (iv) direct mail campaign; and (v)
development and operation of a productive partnership web site. It is expected that, as a result of these
activities, interested potential participants enter the program with realistic expectations. The information
provided to relevant stakeholders will enable them to exercise social control (e.g. regarding the application
of eligibility criteria by project management) and provide them with opportunities for feedback, thereby
contributing to local empowerment and project ownership.
Mobilization and Screening. This sub-component is to mobilize expressions of interest from potential
productive partnership participants and subsequently screen these by using an agreed set of eligibility
criteria specified in the PPS Manual. Expressions of interest will be mobilized by inviting requests for
productive partnership profiles. Profiles will be presented following a standard format included in the PPS
Manual. Using this standard, expressions of interest provide information regarding: (i) problems that the
proposed productive partnership aims to address; (ii) identified opportunities to resolve these problems; (iii)
participating parties and their proposed contributions and commitments to the productive partnership; and
- 38 -



(iv) location of the proposed productive partnership.
Expressions of interest will be screened based on the following criteria:
*   presentation of productive partnership profile by producer organization of small farmers and private
sector firm(s) should be in the form a joint proposal;
*   compliance of members of small farmers producer organization with project beneficiary eligibility
criteria;
*   statement by corresponding municipal authority that the nature of the proposed productive partnership
is in line with the Municipal Land Use Plan (Plan de Ordenamiento Territorial); and
*   appropriateness of the proposed solution in relation to the relevance and scope of the stated problem(s)
that the productive partnership aims to address.
The screening of the productive partnership profiles will be conducted by PCG. Once selected, profiles will
be further developed into detailed productive partnership proposals with technical assistance financed under
the project (see below: pre-investments). Detailed productive partnership profile eligibility criteria were
agreed during appraisal and are included in the PPS Manual.
Given the productive focus of the project and the use of public funds to provide incentives for the formation
of productive partnerships, beneficiary eligibility criteria are geared towards targeting poor, rural families
with working experience in the agricultural sector. Beneficiary eligibility criteria as specified in the PPS
Manual cover social, economic as well as technical aspects, including: i) poor male-female heads of
household with or without land, (ii) between 18-50 years old, (iii) at least one family members with
complete primary schooling or participating in adult education programs, (iv) at least three years of
agricultural experience relevant to one of the partnership activities; (v) participating in the regional
training provided by the project, (vi) with assets of not more than 200 minimum wages, and (vii) with 75%
of the income derived from agricultural activities and wages of no more than up to 4 minimum wages per
month.
Pre-Investment Studies. After completing the screening of productive partnership profiles, the objective of
this sub-component is to assist eligible participants in the preparation of detailed proposals that will allow
an informed decision about their feasibility from a technical, financial, social, and environmental
perspective. To achieve this, the project would finance technical assistance and training.
Technical assistance for the preparation of these proposals would be provided by eligible TA providers
selected by productive partnership participants from a long list established by PCG. TA providers could be
consulting firms, NGOs or universities. The long list will be established following an invitation for
expressions of interest published by PCG. In order to be included in the long list, interested TA providers
will comply with the following eligibility criteria, included in the PPS Manual : (i) registration as legal
entity; (ii) proven track record in rural development projects; (iii) availability of a multi-disciplinary team
of professionals with capacity in relevant fields such as financial analysis, environmental assessment, social
analysis, agribusiness and agronomy; (iv) installed institutional capacity for logistics and support (vehicles,
telephones, computers etc.); and (v) proven competency in administration and financial management with
appropriate internal controls. The long list will be updated by PCG on a regular basis.
TA providers would enter into a contract with PCG and assist eligible productive partnership participants
in the preparation of a detailed proposals. A model contract has been developed for this purpose and
included in the PPS Manual. Presentation of detailed productive partnership proposals will follow the
format included in the manual. This format consists of four parts: (i) description of the productive
partnership in terms of problems being addressed, solutions being pursued, outputs being expected, and
- 39 -



long term vision being realized; (ii) feasibility of the productive partnership from a financial, social,
technical and environmental point of view; (iii) implementation arrangements both in terms of own
contributions as well as external assistance; and (iv) assessment of the external environment (e.g. municipal
context) in which the productive partnership will be realized with a view to identify possible risks and
define corresponding risk mitigation measures.
Once completed, the detailed productive partnership proposal will be embedded in a formal cooperation
agreement to be signed between the participating parties and PCG once the initiative has been approved.
To express the commitment of the participating parties to sign the cooperation agreement once the detailed
productive partnership proposal has been given the green light, they will sign a letter of intent that will
accompany the proposal to the approving authority. Draft formats of cooperation agreements and letter of
intents have been prepared and will be included in the PPS Manual .
Preparation of the detailed productive partnership proposal is considered a process of learning-by-doing.
For this purpose, the TA provider will also provide training to small farmers involved in the preparation
process in critical areas such as farm management, administration and accounting, sustainable natural
resource management, quality control, and conflict resolution. The PPS Manual will include specifications
of the guidelines for training modules supported by the project in these areas.
Ex-ante Evaluation of Detailed Productive Partnership Subproject Proposals. Detailed productive
partnership proposals will be evaluated by a panel of independent experts contracted under the project.
Detailed TORs have been prepared and will be included in the PPS Manual . Experts on the panel will
have relevant qualifications and sufficient independence to ensure that evaluation of proposals is done on
technical grounds and in an objective manner. The panel of experts would typically consist of four
individuals, including a social scientist, an environmental specialist, an agriculturist and a financial analyst.
Evaluation of detailed productive partnership proposals is done on the basis of minimum eligibility criteria
as objective benchmarks. From a financial perspective, proposals should show an IRR of at least 15%,
based on reasonable assumptions as demonstrated by appropriate sensitivity analysis. From a social
perspective: (i) participants should comply with beneficiary eligibility criteria as indicated above; (ii)
responsibilities to be assumed by the small farmers producer organization in the implementation of the
productive partnership as indicated in the draft Cooperation Agreement should be reasonably in line with
the results of a strengths-weaknesses analysis of the organizations carried out as part of the social
assessment; and (iii) there should be an agreement among participating parties regarding the functioning of
a conflict resolution mechanism. From an agronomic perspective, proposals should be based on technical
parameters that are reasonable for the agro-ecological conditions under which the productive partnership
will be implemented. From an environmental perspective, proposals: (i) should be appropriately classified;
(ii) should include mitigation measures that correspond closely with proposed environmental classification
and institutional capacity for implementation; and (iii) should include provisions that ensure adequate
implementation and monitoring of the mitigation measures. Detailed subproject eligibility criteria were
agreed during appraisal and will be incorporated in the PPS Manual .
Based on the results of the evaluation of proposals by the panel of experts, PCG submits the proposal to
the Technical Committee for approval of the allocation of the Modular Incentive. This incentive will be
financed under the project as a cost-sharing transfer.
Studies. In cases where there is significant interest to prepare and implement subprojects that focus on
particular crops and/or regions, the project could finance the implementation of studies of strategic
importance that go beyond the individual subproject level. This would be particularly important for
- 40 -



investment decisions where up front investments are high and could imply significant switching costs. Other
studies may include impact studies on rural poverty and studies of a general nature which could benefit
project impact.
Project Component 2 - US$41.10 million
Support to the Implementation of Productive Partnerships
Under this component, the project would provide: (i) cost sharing transfers as seed capital for participating
small farmers producer organizations; and (ii) technical assistance and training to productive partnership
participants.
Modular Incentive and Cost Sharing Transfer. Under this sub-component, the project would finance cost
sharing transfers that would allow participating small farmers to set-up family production units within the
context of the proposed productive partnerships. Family production units are defined as production
systems that have the potential to generate monthly profits of 0.5 SMLMs (salarios minimos legales
mensuales) over a period of at least 12 years. The Modular Incentive has an integrated nature that could
be used by beneficiaries for a range of purposes that they themselves consider most critical for the
establishment of family production units within the context of productive partnerships. Applications
include: (i) on-farm infrastructure such as irrigation canals, aquaculture facilities, greenhouses, storage
facilities; (ii) durable goods such as machinery, equipment, tools, fences; (iii) vegetative materials for
nurseries; (iv) operational inputs such as fertilizers and chemicals that do not appear on the negative list;
(v) services such as land leveling; special studies, surveys, laboratory analyses and inventories; insurance;
publicity, market and communication services; (vi) labor usually in the form of remuneration to the
beneficiary or his family (this is important for organic crops) and (vii) access to land (financed from
counterpart funds).
The maximum value of the Modular Incentive is 40% of the required investment for the establishment of
the family production unit with a cap of 6 million pesos (approximately US$2,600) per beneficiary when
beneficiaries already own land. In case of participating beneficiaries that do not own land and who choose
to rent land, a cap of 8.5 million pesos (US$3,700) per beneficiary would be established. When land
purchase is deemed necessary, as would be the case for many subprojects involving perennial crops, the
ceiling of the Modular Incentive would be 17.5 million pesos ($7,600) per beneficiary of which no more
than 11.5 million pesos (US$5,000) per beneficiary would be available to support the purchase of land,
under the condition that the cost of land and its preparation does not exceed 35% of the required investment
for the establishment of a subproject. The terms and conditions of the Modular Incentive are based on the
financial analysis of the prototype productive partnerships and taking into account other competing
incentives and subsidies that are geared to the rural sector.
The proposed Modular Incentive offers a one-stop shop for small farmers participating in productive
partnerships. Recognizing the holistic nature of establishing family production units in the context of
productive partnerships, the Modular Incentive can be applied to a range of possible investments rather
than just one as is the case with the existing subsidies and incentives. Given the limitations of public sector
institutions in making decisions at the operational level, small farmers organized in producers organizations
will be empowered to actually manage the Modular Incentive. Once approved by PCG, the Modular
Incentive will be disbursed in advance rather than being available on a reimbursement basis.
The Modular Incentive will disbursed into a trust account (patrimonio aut6nomo). The trust fund will be
administered by a trust company that falls under the jurisdiction of the superintendent of banks. The trust
-41 -



company will be selected by PCG following a competitive process. A contract specifying rules of the game
for the management of the trust and indicating the functions of the trust company in the administration of
the said trust will be signed between the trust fund agency and the project. The beneficiaries of the trust
will be the members of the small farmers producer organization as one of the associates of the productive
partnership. Decisions about the allocation of resources and the use of assets in the trust fund will be taken
by the Partnership Steering Committee consisting of representatives of the small farmer producer
organization, and representatives of the participating agribusiness firm in the productive partnership. One
representative of the trust company and one representative of MADR could participate as observers in the
Partnership Steering Committee.
Technical Assistance and Training. Along similar lines as presented in the case of pre-investment studies,
the project will contract TA providers for technical assistance and training during the implementation
period of the productive partnership. During this period, TA providers will ensure that the decisions of the
Productive Partnership Steering Committee regarding the application of the Modular Incentive reflect the
approved productive partnership proposal. The TA provider will also monitor progress regarding the
implementation of the productive partnership and inform PCG accordingly. In case the Modular Incentive
is disbursed in multiple installments from the project to the trust account, the TA provider will certify the
use of funds in light of the agreed implementation plan for the productive partnerships based upon which
PCG would authorize disbursement of the subsequent payment.
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.70 million
Project Manaeement
Project Coordination Group. Under this component, the project would finance consultant costs and
equipment for the establishment of a small Project Coordinating Group (PCG) in MADR. PCG core staff
would include a director, technical specialists (financial analyst, agribusiness expert, social scientist and
environmental specialist), administrative staff (procurement and financial management) and a M&E expert.
Since implementation of most of the activities of the project will be contracted out (TA providers, panel of
experts, fiduciaries), PCG may also include a communications expert and an IT specialist. The project
will support a comnmunications program which seeks to ensure that all relevant stakeholders have ample
opportunities to be well informed about the rules of the game deployed under the project and be in a
position to provide feedback.
Management Information System. To facilitate project coordination, a MIS would be prepared and
installed. This system would contain planning, monitoring, evaluation, human resource, communications
and productive partnership subproject modules. An effort would be made to establish a web-based
interface between the project, service providers and beneficiaries which would facilitate two-way
communications. By doing so, it is expected that travel by stakeholders for the purpose of project
implementation could be reduced, thereby increasing security.
Proiect Administration. Administrative and procurement functions of the project will be carried out by a
Cooperation Agency. Except for the cost sharing transfers, which will be managed by specialized trust
companies, all expenditures will be channeled through the Cooperation Agency.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Given the innovative nature of the project, special attention will be paid to the
establishment and operation of an adequate M&E system. This system will consist of five elements. First,
TA providers will monitor implementation of productive partnerships based on the agreed implementation
plan and up-date the MIS on a monthly basis. Second, an independent consulting firm will be contracted to
-42 -



assess the effects and impacts of the project. This will be done by comparing baseline information obtained
during the pre-investment stage of the productive partnerships with the actual situation after project
support to the implementation of productive partnerships has been completed.  Third, focus group
discussions with productive partnership participants will also be organized by the independent consulting
firm to obtain their views and perceptions about the extent to which the expectations they had at the
preparation stage of the partnership (and documented in the proposal) have been realized at the end of the
project support to the implementation of the productive partnership. Fourth, annual audits will be carried
out by a specialized firm to review the fiduciary aspects of the project. Fifth, Bank supervision missions
will be carried on a six-months basis to review project implementation on the basis of the agreed annual
operative plan.
Proiect Preparation. About US$2.2 million has been used to prepare the project as well as the pilot
operations.
-43 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
COLOMBIA: PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS SUPPORT PROJECT
Local        FrinTotal
Proect cost ByComponent                      US $milli     UStlmillion    US $miilion
1. Preparation of productive partnerships subprojects           5.00           1.10          6.10
2. Implementation of productive partnership subprojects        32.05           8.05         40.10
3. Project management and cost of project preparation           3.80           0.60          4.40
Total Baseline Cost                                            40.85           9.75          50.60
Physical Contingencies                                         0.31          0.10           0.41
Price Contingencies                                            0.84           0.15          0.99
Total Project Costs'                42.00          10.00         52.00
Front-end fee                       0.32           0.32
Total Financing Required                 42.00          10.32          52.32
Identifiable taxes and duties are 1.4 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 50.92 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 62.84% of
total project cost net of taxes.
-44-



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
COLOMBIA: PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS SUPPORT PROJECT
Summary of Economic Analysis
(in Colombian pesos per hectare)
Prototype             Rivera: Multiple   Parate-    Cota:        Zambrano:   San          Rivera:
Partnership           Crops             bueno:      Vegetables   Agro-       Alberto:     Cacao
75 farners       Oilpalm     28 farmers  forestry      Oilpalm      25 farners
70 farmers               50 farmers   70 farmers
PV of Benefits             52,077,876   11,370,963   86,361,891    6,707,746   13,677,387   15,901,248
PV of Costs                43,173,405    7,646,234   55,694,664    3,613,252    9,705,347   12,981,848
Net Present Value           8,904,472    3,724,729   30,667,227    3,094,493    3,972,040    2,919,400
Economic Rate of                48%          21%         156%          22%         21%          18%
Return
Summary of Financial Analysis
(in Colombian pesos per hectare)
Prototype             Rivera:      Parate-     Cota:        Zambrano:   San          Rivera:
Partnership           Multiple     bueno:      Vegetables   Agro-        Alberto:    Cacao
Crops       Oilpaln      28 farmers  forestry     Oilpalm      25 farmers
75 farmers   70 farmers               50 farmers   70 farners
PV of Benefits        52,077,876   11,370,963   86,361,891    6,707,746   13,677,387   15,901,248
PV of Costs           49,156,800    8,683,940   61,655,357    3,763,819   13,232,856   14,373,562
Net Present Value      2,921,077    2,687,022   24,706,534    2,943,927     444,531    1,527,687
Financial Rate of           23%          17%        181%          22%          13%         16%
Retum
Net Present Value for the economnic and financial analysis discounted at the standard rate of 12%.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Benefits
The main benefit of the project quantified is increased production of agricultural crops. In each of
the prototype partnerships, one or several crops (e.g. palm oil, chocolate, vegetables, agro-forestry, etc.)
will be cultivated by farmers. Several important benefits that are difficult to quantify also result from the
project: increased social capital through the formation of farner cooperatives often in socially fragile areas
of the country; human capital development of farmers through training and capacity-building; and
improved social cohesion and collaboration between various stakeholders and the effect this may have in
- 45 -



helping foster a climate of peace.
Summary of Major Benefits
Productive Partnership                 Crop Yields                  Crop Price (in C$)
(average)                    (average)
Rivera: Multiple Crops (75 farners)
-Tabaco                                2.5 tons/ha                  3,150,000/ton
-Maize                                 3.2 tons/ha                    351,000/ton
-Soya                                  2.7 tons/ha                    531,000/ton
Paratebueno: Oil Palm (70 farmers)
- Oil palm                             19.3 tons/ha                   630,000/ton
(386 tons in 20 years per ha)
- Maize                                2.25 tons/ha                   330,000/ton
Cota: Vegetables (28 farmers)
-Lettuce                               25,000 kilos/ha                    440/kilo
-Spinach                               28,000 kilos/ha                    500/kilo
-Broccoli                              14,000 kilos/ha                    700/kilo
Zambrano: Agro-forestry (50 farmers)
-Timber                                   152 m3/ha                    168,000/m3
San Alberto: Oil Palm (70 farmers)
- Oil palm                             20.0 tons/ha                   630,000/ton
(399 tons in 20 years per ha)
Rivera: Cacao (25 farmers)
- Cacao                                1,043 kilo/ha                     2,214/kilo
Costs
The main costs included in the financial analysis are the costs of the land itself; preparation of land
for the cultivation of the respective crop(s); variable costs associated with the production of the crop (e.g.
fertilizer); administrative and management costs of the partnership; and corresponding taxes.  The
economic analysis converts financial costs into economic costs using shadow prices, does not take into
consideration transfers (e.g. taxes), but does include other costs associated with the partnership (e.g. costs
assumed by the municipality related to the partnership such as upgrading of roads; project costs related to
supporting the establishment of the partnership itself). For the latter, a pro-rata share of the estimated
project costs (except for the incentivo modular sub-component) are assigned to each prototype partnership.
The assumption is that the costs of helping establish the partnership should be incorporated into the
economic analysis. The incentivo modular is a subsidy provided by the Government recognizing the
limited access of farmers to affordable long-term finance. As it is a subsidy, this sub-component is
excluded from the economic analysis. The economic analysis assumes that the prototype partnerships do
not impose negative environmental extemalities based on compliance with the proposed environmental
mitigation plans.
- 46 -



Summary of Major Costs
(in Colombian pesos per hectare)
Prototype      Rivera:       Parate-     Cota:        Zambrano:   San Alberto:   Rivera:
Partnership     Multiple      bueno:      Vegetables    Agro-      Oilpalm       Cacao
Crops        Oilpalm     28 farners    forestry   70 farmers    25 farmers
75 farners    70 farners              50 farmers
PV Financial Costs    49,156,800    8,683,940    61,655,357    3,763,819    13,232,856    14,373,562
Land                   2,992,600    1,559,620   5,904,732           -      896,333     3,811,250
Preparation of land      100,000     106,720      375,000     792,625      539,000
Cultivation           42,790,089    4,057,110    44,772,513    2,647,447    10,095,649    10,562,312
Administration         3,274,110    2,960,490    10,603,112   323,747     1,701,874
PV Economic Costs     43,173,405    7,646,234    55,694,664    3,613,252  9,705,347    12,981,848
Land                   1,496,300    779,810     4,192,360     205,082      448,167      1,905,625
Preparation of land     100,000     106,720       375,000     792,625      458,080
Cultivation           38,563,759    3,783,975    37,453,785    2,193,022  7,599,570    10,088,455
Admninistration        2,793,841    2,811,101   8,620,154     323,747     1,058,230
Infrastructure
Project-costs           219,504     164,628     5,053,365      98,777       141,301      987,768
-47 -



Financing Plan for Prototypes
(in Colombian pesos per hectare)
Prototype           Rivera:      Parate-       Cota:         Zambrano:    San Alberto:    Rivera:
Partnership         Multiple     bueno:        Vegetables    Agro-         Oilpalm        Cacao
Crops         Oilpaln      28 farmers    forestry      70 farmers     25 farmers
75 farmers    70 fanners                 50 farmers
Financine Required
Bank Credit           2,816,000     1,581,478             -     1,584,275      1,465,457     1,820,000
Agribusiness Credit     144,000     1,429,190     2,477,200     1,284,104      1,081,080
Farmer Savings              ???       360,000     8,698,000             -        288,000    11,289,000
Incentivo Modular     1,077,000     2,002,000     2,379,780       736,500      2,002,000     1,777,000
Total debt per       13,813,333    30,106,680     1,769,429    57,367,580    25,465,3700     7,280,000
farmer
Total incentivo       5,026,000    20,020,000     1,699,843    14,730,000     20,200,000     7,108,000
modular per farmer
Total debt is estimated by adding the principal amount of bank credit and agribusiness credit multiplied by
the number of hectares for each farmer.
Main Assumptions:
The main assumptions in the economic and financial analysis include:
a.     Yields and price of crop: The analyses assume a conservative estimate of crop yields. National
and local estimates of productivity (where available) were obtained to help determine production estimates.
Long-term forecasts for major crop prices were also reviewed. Perhaps the most important risk in the
profitability and sustainability of the partnerships is based on crop price risk. The sensitivity analyses have
taken a wide range of crop prices in evaluating the economic and financial viability of the proposed pilot
partnerships.
b.     Exchange rate: The Colombia peso/US$ exchange rate has been used to translate international
prices of crops into local currency. For example, payments to farmers for palm oil is based on the
international price of palm oil subsequently converted into pesos. The exchange rate used for the analyses
has been fixed at 2,100 pesos per US dollar throughout the life of the partnership. The recent devaluation
of the peso to the dollar suggests that the assumption is conservative as further devaluation of the peso will
increase cash inflows to farmers.
c.     Project costs including cost of land: The costs in each of the pilot partnerships was based on
detailed technical discussions and analyses with the farmer cooperatives. Unless noted, the conversion
factor (i.e. shadow price) for land was estimated at .5 and for labor at .8.
- 48 -



d.     Inflation and loan characteristics: The evaluation of the economic and financial viability of the
prototype partnerships correctly does not take into consideration the type and amount of financing required.
However, the financial analysis conducted assesses cash flows to the farmer based on certain assumptions
on loans to be assumed. If the cost of these loans are higher than anticipated, careful attention will be
required to ensure that farmers have sufficient cash flow to meet debt repayments.
Methodology
The financial analysis was conducted from the perspective of an individual farmer based on data
collected from field observations and discussions with the farmer cooperatives and agribusiness. The cost
of land was derived from local land sale or rental markets (where available). The analysis includes
conservative estimates of the fixed costs related to the preparation and improvement of the land and the
variable costs associated with the cultivation of the crops. The benefits were determined also based on
conservative estimates of long-term productivity and crop prices. The financing required was also estimated
for each prototype and may include a bank loan, a loan from the respective agribusiness firm, farmer
savings (if available), and the incentivo modular. The net cash flow and liquidity ratio (ability of the
farmer to adequately meet debt repayments) was also calculated. The net present value (NPV) of the
financial cash flows (before and after credit and other supports) was calculated using a 12% discount rate.
In the economic analysis, two main adjustments were made to the financial analysis: (i) inclusion
(or exclusion) of certain costs and benefits and (ii) revaluation of costs and benefits to their social
opportunity costs. More specifically, these adjustments are including costs borne by the municipality or by
the project, removing transfer payments such as those resulting from financing, taxes, or subsidies, and
using shadow prices to convert financial flows to economic flows in order to reflect the social opportunity
cost of land and labor. The NPV of the economic resource flows was calculated also using a 12% discount
rate.
-49 -



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity analysis was also conducted on both the financial and economic analysis. The
following major risks were assessed through sensitivity analysis:
Major Risks Evaluated using Sensitivity Analysis
Productive Partnership                                    Performance Indicators
FRR / Financial NPV                      ERR / Economic
NPV
Rivera: Multiple Crops                     2,921,077                                   8,904,472
-Crop prices down 15%                      (5,758,569)                                  224,426
-Crop yields down 15%                      (5,758,569)                                   224,426
-Prices and yields each down 15%          (12,991,608)                                (7,008,213)
-Cultivation costs up 25%                 (9,368123)                                  (1,888,879)
Paratebueno: Oil palm                       17%                                           21%
-Crop prices down 15%                       14%                                            17%
-Crop yields down 15%                       14%                                            17%
-Prices and yields each down 15%            10%                                            14%
-Cultivation costs up 25%                  2%                                              16%
Cota: Vegetables                            181%                                          156%
-Crop prices down 15%                       118%                                          112%
-Crop yields down 15%                       101%                                          101%
-Prices and yields each down 15%             42%                                          62%
-Cultivation costs up 25%                    72%                                          82%
Zambrano: Agro-forestry                      22%                                          22%
-Crop prices down 15%                        19%                                          19%
-Crop yields down 15%                        20%                                          20%
-Prices and yields each down 15%             17%                                          17%
-Cultivation costs up 25%                    18%                                          18%
San Alberto: Oil palm                        13%                                         21%
-Crop prices down 15%                        10%                                          17%
-Crop yields down 15%                        11%                                          17%
-Prices and yields each down 15%             6%                                           13%
-Cultivation costs up 25%                    7%                                           15%
Rivera: Cacao                                16%                                          18%
-Crop prices down 15%                        10%                                          15%
-Crop yields down 15%                        11%                                          13%
-Prices and yields each down 15%             4%                                            8%
-Cultivation costs up 25%                    10%                                          13%
- 50-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
COLOMBIA: PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS SUPPORT PROJECT
Years Ending
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3  j Year 4     Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            1.9        6.2       14.0        18.0       8.7         1.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.4         0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.2       0.0
Total Project Costs           2.3        6.6       14.4        18.4       9.1         1.2       0.0
Front-end fee     0.3        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Financing               2.6        6.6        14.4       18.4       9.1         1.2       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    1.4        4.0        9.0       11.0        5.6       1.0        0.0
Government                  1.2        2.6        5.4        7.4        3.5       0.2        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries    0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      2.6         6.6       14.4       18.4       9.1        1.2        0.0
Main assumptions:
The project supports up to 40% of the implementation costs of productive partnership subprojects.
Assuming that this maximum would hold for all productive partnership subprojects, the project
would generate approximately US$70 million of investments financed by productive partnership
associates. Since these investments would not be consolidated in the project accounts and would
not be subject to the audits conducted under the project, they have not been included in the costs of
the project. However, the magnitude of the accompanying investments by productive partnership
associates would be quantified through the Monitoring and Evaluation arrangements of the project.
- 51 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
COLOMBIA: PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS SUPPORT PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank "Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised January/August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in September 1999 and January 1999), and
the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
A capacity assessment was conducted in March 2001. The outcome, summarized below, has been
discussed and approved by the Regional Procurement Adviser's office on April 24, 2001, and is the basis
for the procurement arrangements.
The Project would be managed by a Project Coordinating Group (PCG) within the Ministry of Agriculture
and Rural Development (MADR). PCG would contract a Cooperating Agency which would carry out all
procurement and payments other than the cost sharing transfers that would finance beneficiaries through a
trust company.
PCG would comprise: a Project Director, an Administrator/Procurement Manager, and
Accountant/Financial professional, possibly an Information Systems staff and technical experts. The
administrative team (Administrator/Procurement and Accountant/Financial), already in place as part of the
preparation team, would remain throughout project implementation. Although these two professionals have
experience in procurement, contract management and financial matters in the public sector, they do not
have experience with Bank-financed projects.
An Administrative Manual would guide PCG's functions to manage the Project as a whole; and a
Productive Partnerships Subproject Manual would contain conditions and procedures for the cost sharing
transfers.
Risk Assessment: AVERAGE
Action Plan. The following actions were agreed:
1.    Organization and composition of PCG to be formally agreed at negotiations.
2.    Formal appointment of an Administrator/Procurement Manager as part of the PCG would be a
condition of Loan effectiveness. If the staff already in place does not remain, the candidate specialist
should have procurement experience and a CV satisfactory to the Bank.
3.    Preparation of a Project Administrative Manual, acceptable to the Bank, outlining PCG's
organization, individual responsibilities and procedures. With regards to procurement, it would describe
the role of the Cooperating Agency, methods and steps to be followed for the types of applicable
procurement and contracting, thresholds for Bank's prior review, and procedures for planning procurement
actions and reporting. Annexes to the Manual should include internal forms and standard Bank documents
- 52 - .



(Requests for Proposals and contract for small assignments). The draft manual has been prepared for
negotiations and finalized by loan effectiveness.
4.    Preparation of a PPS Manual to set guidelines for the cost-sharing transfers. The manual would
contain, among others, aspects on eligibility and procurement requirements applicable to subprojects. Such
requirements would follow commercial practices based on price comparison of three price quotations for
acquisition of goods and works whenever possible. Direct contracting would have limits specified in the
manual. Purchases and contracts under the cost sharing transfers above US$300,000 would be subject to
prior review. Presentation of this manual in final form would be a condition of disbursements for the
corresponding category.
5.    Presentation of an updated procurement plan for the first year of project implementation by loan
effectiveness.
6.    Putting in place appropriate software, as part of the financial management package, to report
procurement operations for PMR-based disbursements.
Procurement Methods
The methods described below and their estimated amounts, are summarized in Table A. The threshold
contract values for the use of each method are presented in Table B.
Works
The Project would finance small civil works for remodeling office space for the Project Coordination
Group at a cost of approximately US$5,000. The contract would be procured under lump-sum, fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written invitation.
Goods
Goods to be procured include computers and minor office equipment and furniture for the operation of the
PCG. Total costs for goods financed under the Project are estimated at US$20,000. Contracts would be
awarded through national shopping procedures from at least 3 qualified suppliers.
Consulting Services and Training
The project would finance consulting services: (i) to design and carry out public information campaigns;
(ii) to carry out pre-investment studies; (iii) to evaluate productive partnership subproject proposals; (iv) to
support implementation of productive partnership subprojects; (v) to monitor and evaluate the project; (vi)
to provide administrative and financial management support; (vii) to audit the project; and (viii) to carry
out specific thematic studies. Training would include financing of facilitators, training fees, rent, materials,
meals, and transportation expenses for participants.
Firms. Universities and NGOs. Contracts are expected to be relatively small, not exceeding US$200,000
in value. Traditional consultants' assignments estimated at US$100,000 or more would be procured using
the Selection Based on Fixed Budget method up to an aggregate amount of US$1.6 million; selection based
on consultants qualifications method would be used for tasks estimated at under US$100,000 up to an
aggregate amount of US$4 million. The Least Cost Selection method would be followed for assignments of
- 53 -



a straightforward nature.
Individuals. Individual consultants would be selected in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Cost Sharing Transfers
The project includes cost sharing transfers for productive partnership subprojects proposed by agribusiness
and small-farmer producer organizations. The average size of the transfer is estimated at $300,000; an
upper limit per beneficiary is stated in the Productive Partnerships Subproject Manual. This manual would
specify procurement requirements for works, goods and services based on commercial practices which
would call for comparison of three price quotations (for works and goods). Consultants' qualifications
would be the basis for selecting technical assistance and other consulting services. The PPS Manual would
allow procurement direct contracting (sole-sourcing) for contracts of US$2,000 or less; and for cases where
it is not possible to get the three quotations, it would be mandatory to have explicit prior authorization from
PCG. The Manual would also spell out procedures for community participation in procurement. In this
regard, it would require that clear responsibilities, contributions to be made, supervision aspects, etc., of
the involved parties are stated in the cost sharing transfer agreements. It is expected that most subprojects
would be community-executed.
The cost sharing funds would be administered by at least one trust company to be selected competitively
according procedures satisfactory to the Bank. A framework agreement would be signed by MADR with
the trust company setting out pertaining conditions. The trust company would effect payments, maintain
accounts, and keep the documentation submitted by beneficiaries supporting expenses under cost sharing
transfer contracts. The documentation and accounts would be available in a central location for auditing
and post-review.
PCG would have responsibility to oversee that the agreed procedures specified in both the PPS Manual and
the Project Administrative Manual are followed. Works, goods and services to be financed under this
sub-component do not form part of the aggregate amounts stated for these categories.
Incremental Operating Costs
Incremental Operating costs financed by the Loan include sundry items such as office supplies and
maintenance, communications, transportation and other expenses related to  day-to-day project
management. Supplies and some of the services would be procured on the basis of price comparison to the
extent that is practical.
Procurement methods (Table A)
- 54 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
2
Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB          Other         N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00            0.00          0.01          0.00        0.01
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.01)        (0.00)      (0.01)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.00          0.02          0.00        0.02
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.02)        (0.00)      (0.02)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00          9.10          0.80        9.90
Consultants and Training            (0.00)          (0.00)         (6.58)       (0.00)       (6.58)
4. Costs Sharing Transfers           0.00            0.00          27.00         12.60       39.60
(0.00)          (0.00)        (23.00)       (0.00)     (23.00)
5. Front-end fee                     0.00            0.00          0.32          0.00        0.32
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Incremental Operating             0.00            0.00          0.28          0.00        0.28
Costs                               (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.20)       (0.00)       (0.20)
7. PPF Repayment                     0.00            0.00          2.19          0.00        2.19
(0.00)          (0.00)        (2.19)        (0.00)      (2.19)
Total                             0.00            0.00          38.92         13.40       52.32
(0.00)          (0.00)        (32.00)       (0.00)      (32.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
vIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermment
units.
- 55 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection MBthod
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBSS  QBS:   SFB    LCS         CQ     Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms               0.00    0.00    1.60    2.10     4.00    0.20    0.00       7.90
(0.00)  (0.00)   (1.00)  (1.90)   (2.78)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (5.68)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.00    1.00      2.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.90)  (0.00)   (0.90)
Total  0.00    0.00    1.60    2.10      4.00    1.20    1.00      9.90
(0.00)  (0.00)  (1.00)  (1.90)   (2.78)  (0.90)  (0.00)   (6.58)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 56 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The proposed thresholds for prior review are indicated in Table B. In addition assignments of a
critical nature, and amendments raising contract values above these thresholds would also be
subject to prior review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)              Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                       50 or less               Shopping                  None
2. Goods                       50 or less               Shopping             First contract only
$0.02
3. Services
Firms                          over 100               Fixed budget                  All
$1.50
under 100        Consultant Qualifications or    First contract only
Least Cost                 $0.40
Individuals                     over 50           Section V of Guidelines           All
under 50          Section V of Guidelines     (None expected)
Key staff in Project
Management Group
$1.16
over 20         All Methods for Firms and
Individuals             TORs only
$0.20
Productive Partnership         over 300            Commercial practices         30 for $12
Subprojects
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$15.28 m.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement Plan
An indicative procurement plan for the 5-year period of project implementation has been prepared
and is the basis for the aggregate amounts presented in Table A. A specific Procurement Plan for
the first year of project implementation has also been prepared.
A project launch workshop will be organized at effectiveness with the objective to familiarize key
stakeholders with project procurement, disbursement, reporting and auditing requirements.
- 57 -



Procurement Supervision
In addition to Bank ex-post review missions, compliance with agreed procurement arrangements would
also be reviewed by an independent procurement audit carried out once a year under terms of reference and
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank and included in the Project Administrative Manual. The
annual procurement audit report will be submitted to the Bank within six months of each fiscal year.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 58 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of 5.5 years, beginning the fourth quarter
of FY02 trough the end of the first quarter of FY08. The Project is expected to be completed by
March 31, 2007 and the closing date of the loan is September 30, 2007. Disbursements would not
be made for works, goods and services which have been procured from ineligible sources or which
have not been procured according to the Bank's corresponding procurement and consultants'
guidelines.
The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against eligible expenditures as indicated in Table C.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
1. Works                                   0.01                         85%
2. Goods                                   0.02                         85%
3. Consultant Services & Training          6.30                         100%
4. Costs Sharing Transfers                 22.00               100% of disbursed amounts
5. Incremental Operating Costs             0.20                         85%
6. PPF                                     2.19                         100%
7. Unallocated                             1.28                         100%
Total Project Costs                        32.00
Front-end fee
Total                                      32.00
Note: Exact front-endfee amounts to US$320,000 and will be paid directly by the Government
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Until a Project Management Report (PMR) compliant financial management system is in place the project
would follow traditional disbursement procedures for the withdrawal of funds under the loan agreement in
accordance with the guidelines set in the Disbursement Procedures Handbook. Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) would be used for: (i) contracts for consulting services and training valued below US$100,000 for
firms and US$50,000 for individuals; (ii) all contracts for goods except the first contract; (iii) contracts for
works costing US$50,000 or less; (iv) all cost sharing transfers for productive partnership subprojects for
contracts below US$300,000; (v) all incremental operating costs. All other disbursement requests would
be accompanied by full documentation. Documentation supporting SOEs would be retained by MADR
through PCG and made available for examination by Bank staff as requested.
Transition to the use of PMRs would take place once the financial management system complies with the
requirements of the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) and is certified accordingly by the Bank.
Under LACI, the use of SOEs would be replaced by a system whereby disbursements (including the
amount of the Special Account) would be granted on the basis of a set of agreed-upon quarterly PMRs.
These reports would detail progress in the financial, physical and procurement activities of the project
versus agreed targets. PMRs would be submitted to the Bank within 45 days from the preceding quarter.
An action plan which will put in place the necessary capacity for the use of PMR was agreed during
appraisal and the likely date for initating PMRs is March 31, 2003
- 59 -



Special account:
The Bank would disburse the proceeds of the loan into a Special Account in US$ in name of the project and
held by the General Directorate of the Treasury in the Central Bank. The Special Account would operate
following procedures acceptable to the Bank. The authorized allocation of the Special Account would be
US$2.0 million, with an initial advance of US$750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Loan Account has reached US$5 million. For PMR-based disbursements, the maximum amount would not
exceed US$6 million. Presentation of supporting documentation would be effectuated within 30 days of
payment within the trust accounts of the beneficiaries under the productive partnership subprojects.
For the cost sharing transfers, the General Directorate of the National Treasury would be responsible to
make payments from this account. PCG would be authorized by the National Technical Committee to
instruct the General Directorate of the National Treasury to pay costs sharing transfers into trust accounts
at a trust company and established in the name of eligible beneficiaries of approved productive
partnerships. This transfer would be done on the basis of a cost sharing transfer agreement signed between
MADR and a Productive Partnership Steering Committee, representing the partnership between small
farmers and agribusiness. The trust company would contract and pay service providers and suppliers
following procedures detailed in the Productive Partnerships Subproject Manual. The cost sharing transfer
of an approved productive partnership subproject would be disbursed in installments as specified in the
implementation plan of the subproject attached to the cost sharing transfer agreement. Installments would
be disbursed on request of the Productive Partnership Steering Committee through the trust company to the
PCG. This request would be accompanied by a certificate of verification signed by the technical assistance
provider contracted under the project to assist implementation of the productive partnership subproject.
Based on the execution of the cost sharing transfer agreement, PCG would consolidate the corresponding
project accounts for resources disbursed as cost sharing transfers. PCG would prepare withdrawal
requests for the replenishment of the Special Account which would be presented to the Bank following
procedures described in the Project Administrative Manual.
Disbursements for cost sharing transfers would become effective once PCG has: (i) presented the PPS
Manual acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) installed a financial management system acceptable to the Bank;
and (iii) the Presidential Decree regulating the cost sharing transfers has been signed.
For all other expenditures, the General Directorate of the National Treasury would transfer monthly
amounts from the Special Account to the Cooperating Agency to pay for works, goods, services, training,
technical assistance and incremental operating costs during the next 30 days. PCG would instruct the
Cooperation Agency to contract and pay consultants and suppliers from their allocation. Once the goods
and services contracted and paid, PCG would receive the supporting documentation and consolidate the
corresponding project accounts. It would also be possible for the Borrower to pay the Cooperating Agency
directly in local or foreign currency from the loan account in the Bank.
Disbursements into the Special Account will only take place from the moment the Borrower has shown that
(i) MADR has direct and immediate access to the SA, through SIIF (integrated financial information
system) to pay project eligible expenditures; (ii) through SIIF, MADR will authorize payment directly to
the trust companies responsible for delivering the cost sharing transfers to eligible participants and other
contractors; and (iii) the relevant staff has been trained on the proper use of SIIF. Before this is the case,
the government will pre-finance all operations and claim reimbursement from the Bank through the SOE
procedure accompanied by the relevant documentation.
Counterpart Funds. MADR would open an Account in C$ (Local Account) in the Central Bank for the
- 60 -



purpose of financing counterpart fund expenditures under the Project. The General Directorate of the
National Treasury would be responsible to make payments from this account. Following procedures
specified in the Project Administrative Manual, PCG would instruct the General Directorate of the National
Treasury, on the basis of an agreement signed between MADR and the Productive Partnership Steering
Committee to pay costs sharing transfers (including land purchase support) into trust accounts managed by
a trust company and established in the name of small farmer producer organizations representing eligible
beneficiaries of approved productive partnerships. Based on the execution of this agreement, PCG would
consolidate the corresponding project accounts as expenditures authority(ordenador del gasto)for
resources disbursed as cost sharing transfers for the purpose.
Retroactive Financing
Retroactive financing of up to US$3.0 million would be permitted for eligible expenditures made in
accordance with procurement procedures agreed under the project from April 2, 2001, provided that the
loan is signed not later than April 1, 2002. If the loan is signed at a later date, the initial date for eligibility
of expenditures for retroactive financing would be modified so that the period covered by retroactive
financing would not exceed more than one year. Retroactive financing is recommended to ensure that the
six prototypes developed during preparation could be implemented thereby given credibility to the project,
pre-investments could be initiated and project implementation arrangements could be put in place in
anticipation of the project effectiveness date, thereby ensuring a head-start in the first year of project
implementation. It would also allow MADR to initiate support to the implementation of a number of
productive partnership subprojects.
Financial Management
A financial management assessment was carried out by a financial management specialist in accordance
with OD/BP 10.02. The following issues have been agreed:
Organization. PCG would be responsible for all financial management aspects of the project. For this
purpose, PCG would be staffed with qualified professionals, with clear delineation of responsibilities within
the organizational structure as outlined in Section C.4 of the PAD. Detailed TORs for professionals
working on the financial management aspects of the project are included in the Project Administrative
Manual. Main responsibilities of the Administrative and Financial Management area of PCG include: (i)
manage, control and supervise the efficient use of financial resources, as well as transparency and
compliance with World Bank procedures and sound financial practices; (ii) supervise that procurement of
goods and services complies with all World Bank guidelines and procedures along with the operating plans
of the project; (iii) prepare all financial information on the project including sources and uses of funds,
budget execution, transfer, etc.; (iv) control and efficiently manage the budget, keep records, reports and
files of the financial management of the project; (v) coordinate the preparation of funds' cash flows every
three month, as well on an annual basis; (vi) supervise the update of procedures and controls for
disbursement, accounting and budget; (vii) supervise the development and implementation of a system of
financial management to administer the project, as well as all required procedures and controls for
disbursement and budget, making sure that the project is adequately monitored; (viii) coordinate and
control the flow of funds, reporting to authorities about disbursements and any other relevant financial
information required for the adequate execution of the project; (ix) prepare and provide all the financial
information required by external auditors; (x) train PCG staff to ensure compliance with the World Bank
guidelines on financial management, including requests of funds, reports of expenditures, establishment of
internal controls and reports on the disbursements of the SA funds. PCG would use the services of a
Cooperating Agency with a financial management system acceptable to the Bank. PCG would use the
- 61 -



services of one or more trust companies, acceptable to the Bank, to manage and disburse cost sharing
transfers into trust accounts established in the name of eligible project beneficiaries.
Budgeting. PCG would present by November 15 of each year an annual operating plan for the subsequent
year to the Bank for review and approval. The plan would include an annual budget specified according to
project components, expenditure categories and disbursement accounts, including counterpart funds
provided by the Government. Contributions from productive partnership participants would not be included
in the project budgeting and accounting system. However, for M&E purposes, PCG through contracted
technical assistance providers, would maintain records of both public and private investments realized
under productive partnerships as a base to assess effects and impacts.
Accounts. PCG would establish and maintain project accounts to record all project transactions. The
accounts shall be maintained in accordance with intemationally and locally recognized accounting
principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank. The accounting system would be organized by project
component, expenditure category and disbursement account and would consolidate these accounts to
prepare financial reports. PCG would also maintain a register of assets purchased with project funds,
although this would not include assets purchased under productive partnership subprojects through cost
sharing transfers. Supporting documentation would be kept by PCG and by the trust companies in case of
expenditures under costs sharing transfers for at least one year after the last disbursement of funds for the
project and until its has been examined by the project's auditors. The information will be available at any
time for review by the Government, World Bank missions and independent auditors. For all contracts
requiring the Bank's prior review, full documentation will accompany disbursement request until
disbursement is based on PMR's.
Internal Controls. The proposed outsourcing of procurement and disbursement functions to the Cooperation
Agency and trust companies would be an important element to achieve an adequate separation of
administrative responsibilities. Furthermore, the procedures under the Financial Management Section of
the Project Administrative Manual would ensure:  (i) clear specification of required supporting
documentation before payment authorization; (ii) verification of budget allocation and availability of funds
before payment authorization; (iii) operation of a project procurement committee; and (iv) reduced number
of persons authorized to sign checks, while ensuring dual control. Moreover, the project would establish
and use social control mechanism to improve transparency in the decision-making process and increase
accountability of project personnel.
Reporting. The project would be allowed to use SOE's until March 31, 2003 and in parallel will prepare
PMR's in order to prepare the project to produce information only through PMR's after April 1, 2003 on a
regular and timely basis. PCG will prepare and forward to the Bank quarterly PMR's (respectively by
January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year). By December 31 of each year beginning in
2003, PCG would prepare and forward to the Bank an annual implementation plan detailing project
activities contemplated for the subsequent calendar year. Hence loan disbursements will be made on the
basis of PMR's. As part of the reporting requirements, MADR would also conduct a physical counting of
assets on hand and compare these with the accounting records.
Audits. MADR would hire independent private auditors satisfactory to the Bank under a multiple year
contract to audit on an annual basis the financial statements, the Special Account and SOEs. In addition,
the auditors would prepare a (long-form) report on project management. The audit reports would convey
the auditor's opinion and comment as necessary on the methodology employed in the compilation of the
SOEs, their accuracy, the relevance of supporting documentation, eligibility for financing in termns of the
project's legal agreements and standards of record keeping and intemal controls related to the foregoing.
- 62-



Copies of the audit reports would be provided to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal
year. The final version of the Financial Management Section of the Project Administrative Manual would
include detailed terms of reference for the extemal auditors, following the guidelines in the World Bank's
Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook. The firm selected for performing the project
audit would be hired 90 days after loan effectiveness.
- 63 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
COLOMBIA: PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS SUPPORT PROJECT
;Projeict Scheduletit ljt00000i:4000;.)$: 0? 0:000 ;X  Planned                 Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      9                            24
First Bank mission (identification)             11/26/1999                   11/26/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     05/30/2000                   03/26/2001
Negotiations                                    08/15/2000                   11/19/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   12/15/2000                   03/31/2002
Prepared by:
Government of Colombia: Agricultural Development Unit in the National Planning Department in
collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
Preparation assistance:
TF025829
FAO/CP
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Martien van Nieuwkoop             Sr. Natural Resource Economist/Task Manager up to negotiations
Natalia Gomez                     Operations Officer/Institutional Aspects
Jairo Arboleda                    Sr. Social Scientist/Social Assessment
Manish Bapna                      Economist/Economic and Financial Analysis
Kirsten Oleson                    Operations Analyst/Environmental Assessment
Carmen P. Nielsen                 Procurement Analyst/Procurement Aspects
Luis Schwarz                      Financial Management Specialist/Financial Management Aspects
Mariana Montiel                   Legal Counsel
Cornelis van der Meer             Peer Reviewer (RDV)
Shelton Davis                     Peer Reviewer (LCSES)
Ryo Eguchi                        Peer Reviewer (CAGGR)
Pierre Werbrouck                  Task Manager from negotiations onwards
Erika Felix-Castaneda             Project Assistant (Washington)
Clemencia Medina                  Project Assistant (Colombia)
Note: Planned project schedule reflects agreement at PCD stage.
-64 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
COLOMBIA: PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS SUPPORT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.    Productive Partnerships Subproject Manual
2.    Project Administrative Manual
3.    Implementation Plan, including Procurement Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Social Assessment
2.    Environmental Assessment
3.    Technical Assessment of Productive Partnership Prototypes (FAO/CP)
4.    Institutional Analysis and Project Implementation Mechanism
5.    Financial Analysis of Productive Partnership Prototypes
6.    Project Costs (COSTAB)
7.    Procurement Assessment
8.    Financial Management Assessment
9.    Mission Aide-Memoires:
- July 30, 1999
- December 3, 1999
- May 20, 2000
- October 24, 2000
- April 2, 2001
C. Other
Documents Prepared by Project Preparation Team in the National Planning Department
Description of Productive Partnership Prototypes:
Dairy products, AGANAR, producer organization (60 members) with Nestle de Colombia S.A.;
Granada, Meta
Vegetables, Asociacion de Empresarios Campesinas de COTA (28 members) with the Farm S.A.,
Semillas Arroyave S.A. and Dupont de Colombia S.A.; Cota, Cundinamarca.
Oil Palm, Asociacion de Productores de Palma (70 members) with Unipalma S.A.; Paratebueno,
Cundinamarca
Corn-Cacao, Cooperativa Multiactiva de Beneficiarios de Reforma Agraria (56 members) with La
Nacional de Chocolates, S.A.; Rivera, Huila
Oil Palm, Cooperativas Palmares (73 members) and El Topacio (27 members) with Industria
Agraria La Palma, S.A.; San Alberto, Cesar.
- 65 -



Agro-Forestry, Local producers to be organized in Asociaci6n de Productores (+/-50 members) with
Pizano, S.A.; Zambrano, Bolivar.
Description of existing incentives and background note on Modular Incentive.
Financial Management Action Plan
Farm/Household Survey Methodology and Results.
Competitive Profile of Palm Oil in Colombia.
TORs and guidelines for Project Consultative Committee.
Market Assisted Land Reform Operational Manual.
*Including electronic files
- 66 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
COLOMBIA: PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS SUPPORT PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD         IDA                           Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P044140        2000 CARTAGENA WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE                   85.00       0.00                             0.00     75.75       14.05      0.00
P050578        2000 ENVIRO                                              20.00       0.00                             0.00      19.78       2.20      0.00
P057326        2000 CO- RURAL EDUCATION                                  5.00       0.00                             0.00      4.77       -0.23      0.00
P063643        2000 SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT              506.00       0.00                            0.00     212.99       0.00       0.00
P065263        2000 CO-FSAL                                            225.00       0.00                             0.00     103.86       5.52      0.00
P068762        2000 EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY                                100.00       0.00                             0.00      99.00      12.33      0.00
P039082        1999 CO- COMMUNITY WORKS (MANOS A LA OBRA)              137.00       0.00                             0.00     100.00     100.00      0.00
P050576        1999 TOLL ROAD CONCESSION                                 5.00       0.00                             0.00       3.18       2.52      0.00
P046112        1998 CO- YOUTH DEVELOPMENT                                7.20       0.00                             0.00       4.17       2.64      0.00
P053243        1998 CO- PASTO EDUCATION                                  5.00       0.00                             0.00       3.46       1.80      0.00
P006891        1998 PEASANT ENTERPRISE Z                                40.00       0.00                             0.00      31.71      16.86      0.00
P006861        1998 CO- ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION                             75.00       0.00                             0.00      57.32      16.16       0.00
P006864        1997 URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE                                15.00       0.00                             0.00      10.52       9.80       0.00
P040102        1997 FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT                       12.50       0.00                             0.00       6.77       4.27      0.00
P006887        1996 REG.REF.TA                                         249.30       0.00                             0.00      19.00      15.66       1.54
P006872        1996 POWER MARKET DEVELOPMENT & ENERGY (TA)              65.00       0.00                             0.00       4.16       3.33       1.16
P039291        1996 URBAN TRNSPRT                                       20.00       0.00                             0.00       3.39       3.39      -0.95
P006894        1996 URBAN ENVIRONMENT TA                               145.00       0.00                             0.00     64.87       62.91       0.00
P006880        1995 SANTAFE I (WaterlSupply)                            36.00       0.00                             0.00      15.95      13.85      -4.35
P006893        1995 AGRICULTURE TECHNOLO                                11.00       0.00                             0.00       0.47       0.47       0.00
P006889        1994 ENERGYTECHNICALASSISTANCE                           30.00       0.00                             0.00       1.94       1.94       0.00
P006866        1994 CO PUBLIC FINANCIAL MAN                             90.00       0.00                             0.12       0.06       0.18      -3.76
P006854        1993 CO- SECONDARY EDUCATION                             50.00       0.00                             2.12       0.09       1.56       2.22
CO- MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES
Total:     1934.00        0.00                            2.24      843.22     291.23      -4.15
- 67 -



COLOMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Mar-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity    Quasi   Partic
1969/85/88/93/95   CF del Valle                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
1963/90            Coltejer                       6.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.02    0.00       0.00    0.00
1995/99            Corfinsura                    25.00    0.00    25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    25.00    0.00
1999               Harken                        30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
1987               PRODESAL                       0.00    0.59    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.59       0.00    0.00
1977/89/92/94/96   Promigas                       6.88    0.00    0.00   14.58    6.88    0.00       0.00   14.58
1994/95            Promisan                       0.00    0.23     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.23      0.00    0.00
1996               Proyectos                      0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00       0.00    0.00
1997               Suleasing                     24.82    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.25    0.00       0.00    0.00
1999               Surenting                      0.00    5.10     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        92.72   10.92    25.00    14.58    15.15    8.32    25.00   14.58
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
2001               Tolcemento                     3333.33      0.00      0.00  10666.67
2001               CHMC                              0.00  10000.00  30000.00      0.00
2001               Cementos Caribe                4047.62      0.00  10000.00  12952.38
Total Pending Commitment:      7380.95  10000.00  40000.00  23619.05
- 68 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
COLOMBIA: PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS SUPPORT PROJECT
Latin    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             America   middle-
Colombia   & Carlb.  Income        Development diamond'
1 999
Pnnijlation, mid-vaar (millions)                        41.5       509      2.n04                  Life expectancy
GNP oar canita (Atlas method. USS                     21170      3.840     1.200
G,NP (Atlas method. USS billions)                       90.0      1.955     2. 513
Averaae annual arowth. 1993-99
Pnmilatinn (%I                                           1.s        1.6       1.1
Labor force (%)                                          2.7        2.5       1.2      GNP          /                   Gross
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1993-99)                                 capita                          nrnilmrnf
Povertv (% of Donulation below national Dovertv linel    21
Urban nontilatinn (% of total oooulationl                 73        75         43
Life exoectancv at birth (vears)                          70        70         69
Infant mnrtalitv foer 1000 ive birthsl                    23        31         33
Child malnjtrition (% of children under 5)                 8         a         1 5               Access to safe water
Access to imoroved water source (% of DoDulation)         78        75         86
Illiteranyv (% of oooufation aoe 15+)                      9        12         1 fi
Gross nrimarv enrollment /% ofschool-aoeDoDulationl      113       113        114              Colombia
Mala                                                  113          ..      114               Lower-middle-income group
Famala                                                112                  116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratioa'
GDP (USS billions)                            27.9      39.5       99.1      86.6
Grnsr dnmastic invastmpntlGDP                  18.2     1R.5       19.5      13. 
Exnnrts of nnnds and servieaslG DP             15.2     18 0       150       178                       Trade
Gross domestic savinaslGDP                     19.9     22.7       13.6      11.0
rsross natinnal savinnolGDP                    192      19.R       12 3       90
Current account balance/GDP                     1.4     -0.5       -5.3      -1.1
Interest navmants/GDP                          n A       4.0        1 8       2.1      Domestic                     Investment
Total dabt/GDP                                21.0      42.7       33.6      39.9      Savings
Total debt service/exoorts                    14.3      48.4       30.5      43.2
PrAsent valua of dAhtlGDP                        ..        .       32 7      45 1
Present value of debt/exoorts                    ..       ..    216.5       255.6
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(averaoe annual arowth)
GDP                                   3.4      3. 4      n5        -4.3       2.f               Colombia
GNP ner eanita                        O.R      1.8      -0.9       -7.1       1.0               Lower-middle-income group
Exoorts of aoods and services         5.a      5.8       5.9        4.7       3.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
50.
Anriciltmere                                  22 n      1fi f      13 3      12 2
Industrv                                      30.3      38.2       25.7      24.8     30
Maniufartcirino                              23.0     21 6       14.2      12.9           _
Services                                      47.7      451        61.0      62.9      0_
Private consnjmntion                          70.7    fi. 1        67.5      67.9    -30 - .                              _
Ganeral novarrnmnt nonsitmntion                9 3       92        18.9      21 1                    GDl          GDP
Imoorts of aoods and services                 13.5      13.8      20.9       19.5
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports(%)
(averaoe annual ore wIhi
Aoricuiltuure                                  2.5      -2.1        0.6      -0.2    40
Industrv                                       4.7       1.9       -1.8     -11.0
Mantifar.tirina                               2.8     -1.7       -0.3     -12.4    20
Services                                       3.0       5.3       -5.5      -0.7
Private consnimntion                           2.6       3.         0.8      -5.1      0      4    95   96   57 
Ganeral novarnmant nonsimntinn                 4 3       84         0.9       4 3             9
Gross domestic investment                      2.3       5.7       -5.7     -30.1    |20        -
Imnorts nf ooons and sarvicas                  n.R      13 2       -2.R     -1356                  Exports          mports
Gross national oroduct                         2.9       3.6        1.0      -5.5
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv tin bold) comnared with its income-aroun averaoe. If data are missina. the diamond will
ha inrnmniAtA.
- 69 -



Colombia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1979    1989        1998     1999      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                        30
Consumer prices                              24.7    26.1       16.7      9.2    20
Implicit GDP deflator                        24.1     24.7      15.5      12.5
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, incdudes current grants)                                                o -
Currentrevenue                                 ..    10.2       11.9      12.6            94   90   96   97   98
Current budget balance                         ..      1.2      -3.1     -4.7                  GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -0.5       -5.3     -6.5
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         3,441    6,031    11,494    12,044    20,00
Coffee                                    2,005    1,476     1,896     1,325
Petroleum                                   146    1,400     2,333    3,761      15,000 -
Manufactures                              1,224    2,145     6,588    3,922                                     _
Total imports (cit)                         2,978    4.558    14,836    10,311    10J0
Food                                       254      219      1,655    1,415      5
Fuel and energy                             322      316       158      270
Capital goods                             1,077    1.595     5,522    3,651         0
93  94  95  96  97  98  99
ExDort Doce index (1995=100)                   5       36        112      117
lmoort once index (1995=1001                   4       43        116      116                 *Exports      KImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    123       82         96      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
fUSS millions)                              1979    1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services              4,532    7,330    13,560    13,959      0
Imports of goods and services              3,919    6,411    17,542    13,595
Resource balance                             613      919    -3,982       363
-2
Net income                                  -277   -2,019    -1,735   -2,123
Net current transfers                         66  898   444  796    'I 'll',
Current account balance                      402    -201    -5,273       -964     4
Financing items (net)                       -487      350      6,663     1,387
Changes in net reserves                       85     -149    -1,390      -423     _
Memo:
Reserves includina oold tUSS millions)          .       ..    8.741     8.103
Conversion rate (DEC. localIUSS)             42.5   382.6   1,426.5   1,757.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                     Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        5,869   16,886    33,263    34,519
IBRD                                       838    3,808      1,740    1,958                      A: 1,740 B: 9
IDA                                         22       15         9         8            G:6,232              D: 2,801
Total debt service                           703    3,905      4,565    6,596                                    E: 1,397
IBRD                                       124      640       347       391
IDA                                          0        1         1         1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             10       37        61
Official creditors                         137      102        107      923
Private creditors                          542      -10       566       995
Foreign direct investment                  127      576      3,038    1,008
Portfolio equity                             0        0        26       663                        F: 21,084
Word Bank program
Commitments                                331      330       227       591      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              139      361        184      499      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        52      333       233       271      c- IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                   87       28        -48      228
Interest payments                           73      308       115       123
Net transfers                               14    -280        -164      105
Development Economics                                                                                               B/29/00
- 70 -



Additional
Annex 11
Social Analysis
COLOMBIA: PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIP SUPPORT PROJECT
Introduction
The project aims to stimulate establishment of collaborative arrangements between poor small scale
producer associations and agribusiness firms in a particular value chain. The primary beneficiaries of the
project are members of the producer associations who demonstrate vocation and capacity relevant for the
business partnership. This vocation and capacity imply that, even though poor, they are not necessarily
among the poorest of the poor in the rural area.
The collaborative arrangements or productive partnerships provide participating partners the opportunity to
satisfy their own interest in a relationship that is interdependent and creates a win-win situation for all
parties involved. This type of partnership is one of the strategies proposed in the National Development
Plan, Cambio para Construir la Paz, as a means to improve living conditions and decrease tensions in
rural areas. The partnership is more than a contract to the extent that it presupposes convergence of
interests, complementarity of contributions and shared risks to achieve the objective.
The Productive Partnership Support project creates an innovative type of relationship between different
partners providing conditions for a more peaceful coexistence. Partnerships of this type create social
capital, which contributes to the reduction of social tensions as well as to the generation of economic gains
as demonstrated in several experiences in various parts of the country. Cases such as Indupalma and
worker cooperatives in San Alberto, Monterrey and the association of producers in Puerto Wilches or
Agroactuar and small scale producers of horticulture in Marinilla are good examples. Political and social
violence have decreased.
As part of the preparation process of this project, a series of productive partnership prototypes were
prepared and tested in order to learn and apply the lessons to the final project design.
Social Assessment of Prototypes
A social assessment was conducted for each of six prototypes developed in different regions of the country,
following a methodology and terms of reference designed by the project team. Using a combination of
secondary data and qualitative methods, the objective of the assessment was to collect information on the
following: (i) the social and economic characteristics of the locality and of the prospective members of
producer associations; (ii) their interests and motivation in the formation of partnerships; (iii) the context of
the relationship between small producers and agribusinesses and the potential of a prospective partnership
to satisfy the diverse interests of the partners; (iv) the level of commitment of the participating parties to the
common objective and the mutual benefits; (v) the adequacy and applicability of the eligibility criteria; (vi)
the institutional capacity of the locality, the level of education and experience of associations and of their
members to fulfill the agreements; (vii) the potential of the productive partnership to contribute to mitigate
the conflict and improve security in the area, and (viii) if land purchase was involved, the assessment of any
- 71 -



negative impact on those living in the land to be purchased.
The reports of these social assessments with detailed information on each of the prototypes can be
consulted in the project files. However, the following paragraphs provide an overview of the social
assessment of the six prototypes. It provides information on the productive activities, on the social and
economic characteristics of the families affiliated with the prototypes, and on features of the partnership.
Productive inforrmation
The proposed projects are located in municipalities of different regions of the country: Paratebueno and
Ariari in the eastem region, Cota in the central region, Rivera in the south, San Alberto and Zambrano in
the Atlantic Coast region. The productive activities include plantation products such as oil palm and cacao,
dairy products, agroforestry and horticulture. In each of the farms these cash crops are combined with
traditional crops for self-consumption and for the local and regional markets. This combined system
guarantees food security of the families and some income for the small farmers while the cash crops come
into production. The potential area of production covers about 18,000 hectares. Of these, 5,000 hectares
are proposed to be cultivated during the first phase of the project.
The key partners are national or intemational agribusinesses specialized in one or several aspects of the
value chain, associations of small producers and the Government through the project. Other partners
include local governments, universities, Regional Development Corporations, specialized NGOs, and the
Catholic Church. The farmers are familiar with some of the business partners. This is the case of Unipalma
in Paratebueno, Indupalma in San Alberto, and Monterrey in Zambrano, all with a tradition of operations
in the region and relatively good relationships with the small producers. Others are new in the specific
locality such as Dupont and The Farm in Cota and Rivera, and Nestle in Ariari.
Social characteristics of key beneficiaries
About 1,600 peasants participated in the induction to the project. The induction process consisted of a
variety of activities including workshops, informal meetings with small groups, visits to individual families
and farms over a period of three to six months. These activities were promoted and coordinated by staff of
the preparation team in association with local govermments and staff of regional and national entities
specialized in the agricultural sector.
The families that are affiliated with the six prototypes are 347 or about 22% of those who went through the
induction process. This number is the result of self-selection based on the application of eligibility criteria
and other factors. Some families dropped out during the induction due to migration or the demands of the
process. Others were unable to provide the required documentation on the property of the land or unable to
fulfill potential credit requirements. Still others preferred to avoid the risk and take a wait and see attitude.
Based on the social assessment documents, there is no tension between those who are affiliated with the
prototypes and those who are not. One of the factors for this favorable situation was the self-selection
process, which breaks with a tradition of government employees influencing the participation of people in
government funded activities.
The average family size of the 347 families affiliated with the prototypes is 5 members. The distribution
of age of the head of the family is as follows: 7.5% under 20 years, 59.6% between 20 and 40 years old,
32.9% over 40 years old. Regarding education, 11% of the family heads has up to three years of primary
schooling, 44% between 4 and 8 years, 17.3% between 8 and 10 and only 8.6% are high school graduates
or have some university education.
- 72 -



There are no families of indigenous peoples, afro-Colombians or internally displaced, except for very few
Indian families from a nearby Cabildo, participating as individuals in the project prototype of Cota. Of the
total number of families only 7% are headed by women. The income level of these families is low or very
low. The affiliated families from Paratebueno and San Alberto make the equivalent of the minimum wage
(about US$ 125) which is a low income for Colombian standards. The families from Cota make about 70%
of the minimum wage, and those from Rivera, Ariari and Zambrano make from 30% to 50% of the
minimum wage, which reflects a critical situation for those families.
In summary, the families involved in the prototypes are young, with 67% under forty years of age. They
have an acceptable level of education, 70% has over 4 years of schooling. And all are poor or very poor.
The age and level of education represent a good prospect for these families. Evidence from other World
Bank studies (e.g. Lockheed Marlaine E. and Verspoor Adrian, Improving Primary Education in
Developing Countries, 1991.Oxford University Press) show that four years of education is associated with
higher agricultural productivity of about 9% and favor attitudes towards change.
Relationship between small producers and agribusinesses
The reports of the social assessment of the prototypes show that the interest of all parties is notorious in the
establishment of the partnership. This partnership, on the one hand, has the potential to help solve the
problems of the different parties of the value chain. That is, the need for higher levels of productivity and
competitiveness of the firms, and the need for more secure levels of income and access to productive assets
by the small producers. On the other hand, it is a mechanism to access the incentives of the project.
As pointed out before, the degree of familiarity between the firms and the producer associations varies.
Some have worked together with satisfactory results in the past, particularly in the production of oil palm.
Others are new and there are high expectations for a positive relationship. The asymmetry of the
relationships between owners and workers is a factor to take into consideration. Even though, the project
staff or the Technical Assistance Provider work with the parties in the establishment of an adequate
relationship, the tendency is still for members of the associations to allow the firms or the project staff to
take the lead. To some extent, this may be justifiable in view of the fact that specific requirements of the
business itself such as international prices or quality standards impose conditions to which all have to
concede, particularly those with less experience or knowledge. Becoming familiar with those requirements
is part of the evolution of the partnership and the responsibility of the Technical Assistance Provider in its
work with small producers.
In this respect, there is awareness on the side of the firms that their contribution to the partnerships goes
beyond the provision of a contract to the associations. For example, Unipalma will provide soft loans and
special conditions for the purchase of seeds, free technical assistance in the production cycles, and quality
control over the purchase of agricultural inputs. Dupont, in turn, offers certified seeds, technical assistance
and commercialization services to small farmers in the production of corn and soy beans before the palm oil
enters into its production phase.
However, small scale farmers also need assistance directed towards the best use of the limited resources
available, improving risk management, planning capacity, farm management and financial management.
This kind of assistance is critical for the success of the project. This type of assistance will provided by
Technical Assistance Providers in conjunction with the organizations of the sector present in the region
such as Umatas (extension agents).
- 73 -



Value and use of the information
Despite the value of the information collected, the quality and completeness varies across the prototypes.
Furthermore, the timing of the social assessment did not allow for its full use in the design of the prototype.
In general, the information became available when the partnership and the project was already quite
advanced in its design. Despite this lack of match, the prototypes benefited from the social assessment in at
least two ways: (i) the information from the formal assessment regarding expectations and the history of the
relationships between partners was used in the design of the formal agreement. (ii) the guidance provided
by the project preparation team during the early stages of preparation of the prototype, regarding the
characteristics of the value chains and the potential of small producers to become part of those chains
proved very valuable in the induction of small scale producers.
Social Assessment of Subproject Design and Implementation
During appraisal the lessons of the experience of the social assessments of the prototypes were examined.
Based on those lessons, the following criteria and terms of reference for the social assessment of productive
partnerships were agreed upon and will be incorporated in the project design as reflected in the Productive
Partnerships Operational Manual.
Eligibility
The project is all inclusive of the rural population. The social and economic eligibility criteria are the
following: (i) poor men-women heads of household with or without land, (ii) between 18-50 years old, (iii)
with at least one family member with complete primary schooling, (iv) with at least three years of
agricultural experience relevant to the partnership activity, (v) having participated in the regional training
provided by the project, (vi) with assets of not more than 200 minimum wages, and (vii) with 75% of the
income derived from agricultural activities for up to 4 minimum wage per month.
Special population groups
The project will accommodate the special conditions and needs of indigenous peoples, Afro-Colombians
and the internally displaced population. The indigenous communities will participate, provided the land
tenure of their Resguardo is not in conflict. The social and economic eligibility criteria will not apply. The
Afro-Colombian population will have access to the project benefits through the established criteria for
productive partnerships if they live mixed with the rest of the population of the locality. If they live in
community, in a collectively owned territory, they can participate through their own organizations in a
similar fashion to the indigenous communities. The displaced population can access the project benefits
through their existing or new organizations, keeping in mind the norms of the government policy for the
internally displaced.
Targeting
According to household surveys conducted. as part of the preparation process for a land reform support
project, the incidence of poverty among rural households is approximately 80%, using the index of
"Unsatisfied Basic Needs". Consequently, there will be plenty of eligible participants throughout the
country. This situation offers an opportunity to achieve two objectives simultaneously, one reduce the risk
associated with the armed conflict, and two increase the quality of the proposed productive partnerships.
In effect, by avoiding a geographic targeting, the partnership approach and methodology will be spread out
- 74 -



in the country in regions of high, medium and low intensity of conflict. This itself becomes, on one hand, a
good dissemination strategy of the model across the country; on the other hand, a risk mitigation measure
by not concentrating all efforts on difficult regions. In addition, by opening the opportunity to participate
to the whole country, the pool of proposals will be larger, and consequently, project management will have
more choices for the best proposals.
Finally, the project makes a distinction between humanitarian assistance and development assistance. In
this regard, it is important to realize that the project addresses the needs of poor people but not necessarily
of the poorest of the poor, who require humanitarian assistance as a priority. This project provides
development assistance and thus creates opportunities for those capable of meeting the requirements and
with an entrepreneurial vocation.
Information and Communication
The information and communication strategy will target the general public and potential beneficiaries. It
will make sure that the public becomes aware of the existence of the project, and the potential beneficiaries
become familiar with the objective and incentives of the project and how to access them. The strategy will
use a variety of methods and means of social communication appropriate to the diverse audiences to inform
on objectives, benefits, rules of the game, procedures and expected results.
For its implementation the strategy will use local civil society organizations and promoters from the
regions who are knowledgeable of the beneficiaries. In the cases of indigenous and afro-Colombian
communities questions of language, culture and ways of communication will be taken into consideration.
The supervision of the application of the strategy will be the responsibility of the social specialist of the
Project Coordination Group.
It was agreed that a specialized firm will be contracted for the design and implementation of the strategy for
the first round of subprojects. From then on, the Technical Assistance Providers will take such
responsibility.
Preparation and Evaluation of Profiles
The subproject profiles will be evaluated, from the social point of view, using the following indicators:
(i)    Is there evidence in the profile cover letter of mutual interest and commitment of the partners to
form a partnership around the proposed subproject?
(ii)   Is there a list with the names and identity of the small scale producers interested in the partnership?
(iii)   Do potential beneficiaries fulfill the eligibility criteria?
(iv)   Is the labor, fiscal, commercial, financial and environmental track record of the firm acceptable for
its participation in the project?
(v)    Does the profile indicate the involvement of several family members from each of the producer's
family; or of members of one of the special population groups? (indigenous peoples, afro-Colombians,
intemally displaced, women heads of family)
(vi)    Are the small scale producers members of an association with at least two years of experience?
The first 4 indicators, to be graded as yes or no, represent minimum eligibility criteria for the profile;
number 5 is a priority criterion of the project to ensure that some of the partnerships include special
populations. Number 6 is a preference criterion for the first round of subprojects in order to increase the
probability of success which is considered critical to establish a solid track record at the early stages of the
project.
- 75 -



Preparation and Evaluation of Subproiects
To determine the social viability of the subproject and of the partnership, and to ensure the benefits for the
partners, particularly of the small scale producers, the following criteria will be used in the evaluation of
subprojects.
(i)    The members of the association of producers must fulfill the beneficiary eligibility criteria;
(ii)    The subproject should clearly specify the expected benefits for the partners from their participation
if the partnership;
(iii)   The social and political context in which both the activity and the partnership will develop should
be favorable. In particular: (a) the subproject should not generate high friction between those who
participate and those who do not; (b) the armed conflict should not seriously interfere with the
implementation of the activities;
(iv)    Technical and organizational capacity should exist to fulfill the commitments acquired in the
agreement of the partnership. If not, there should be a plan which should allow to achieve it within a
reasonable time;
(v)    Small scale producers should be aware and know well their responsibilities and financial
obligations; particularly the debt acquired with the commercial bank or with the firm;
(vi)   The firm should make a commitment to the producers to transfer knowledge and information.
There should be specific learning mechanisms for such transfer to take place;
(vii)   All risks associated with the proposed activities should be shared;
(viii)  There should be an appropriate mechanism to resolve conflicts within the partnership;
(ix)   There should be a participatory mechanism for decision-making in the internal affairs of the
partnership;
(x)    There should be a qualified Technical Assistance Provider which is capable of: accompanying all
aspects of the formulation of the subprojects, strengthening the capacity of the small scale producers,
mediating the negotiation of the terms of the partnership with the firm;
(xi)   There should is not be any foreseen negative impact on a group or special population. If there
were, all adequate mitigating measures have been taken.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The Monitoring and Evaluation system will include indicators to assess the following: (i) the critical factors
in the establishment of the alliance, (ii) the degree of compliance of the participating partners with the
agreements, (iii) the level of empowerment of the producer associations, (iv) the impact of the partnership
in the reduction of violence, (v) the participation of indigenous peoples, afro-Colombians and displaced
populations in the project.
Participatory Approach
The primary stakeholders of the project are: (i) poor rural families who will select themselves to enter into
partnerships with firms; and (ii) participating agribusiness firms in productive partnerships. The concept of
productive partnerships as conceived by the project, empowers stakeholders to take the implementation of
the activities in their own hands and to seize the responsibility as agents of their own change. This
approach puts into practice a participatory model of empowermentfor development.
At the national level, the spirit of participation and partnership between the public and private sector has
been ensured during project preparation by a consultative committee formed with the participation from
- 76 -



private firms, producer organizations and relevant public entities. Under agreed terms of reference the
committee has met to review progress in the preparation of productive partnerships and to provide feed
back to the project management team. By allowing for participation of the private sector and small farmer
producer organizations in the National Technical Committee, this spirit of participation and partnership
will be ensured in an even more systematic manner during project implementation.
At the local level, the construction of the partnership is itself a participatory process which involves intense
interaction among the partners, capacity building to gain understanding and abilities, and negotiation of the
rules of action for the enterprise. The individual and social capacity building includes themes such as
working in partnership, the art of association, farm management, quality control, costing of productive
activities, the elements of the value chain, and conflict resolution. At the end, there is a formal agreement
signed by the parties, which includes a conflict-resolution mechanism agreed upon by them.
The participatory model of empowerment for development embedded in the productive partnership concept
emphasizes a group approach. It focuses on the formation or strengthening of producer associations leading
to self-management by stakeholders at the local level. It establishes linkages with private enterprises
through a variety of collaborative arrangements that create a win-win situation for all participating parties.
Overall, it contributes to the formation of social capital, to the increase of rural household incomes, and to
the reduction of social, political and economic violence.
Other stakeholders are NGOs, professional groups, universities, municipal governments and state agencies
involved in the provision of technical assistance and training.
As a critical factor in the promotion of this participatory approach of partnership building the project is
developing an information sharing and communications strategy to motivate primary stakeholders, and
promote public support and social control of project activities. This strategy will ensure that (i) potential
beneficiaries know the eligibility criteria, their rationale and ways of accessing the project benefits, (ii) the
NGOs leam and become familiar with how the project works and how to fulfill their role in it, and (iii)
citizens exercise control over project activities. The information and communication strategy so defined
should lead to local empowerment and project ownership.
- 77 -



Additional
Annex 12
Environmental Analysis
COLOMBIA: PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIP SUPPORT PROJECT
During project preparation, six environmental assessments (EA) for the pilot productive systems
were prepared by local consultants, under TORs acceptable to the Bank. The reports consisted of
an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), an Alternative Technology Assessment and an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The lessons learned from contracting, implementing and
reviewing these EAs are being used to design the environmental assessment methodology for the
project and to design specific environmental activities which were identified as priorities.
Environmental Assessment Methodology
The underlying premise of the proposed EA methodology is to keep the EA procedures simple and
effective. The methodology relies heavily on the use of checklists and matrices, and only in rare
cases requires in-depth EA. The EA responsibilities are divided amongst various institutions in
order to ensure adequate capacity. This division of labor will also serve as a system of checks and
balances. The project will support the needed capacity building in all of the designated institutions,
and includes an environmental awareness and education campaign for the communities requesting
funds. Prior to effectiveness, the project team will work with the environmental specialist in PCG to
fully develop the specific tools (such as matrices, etc.) to be used during the EA process.
Screening
Initial screening of the subprojects will be done by PCG, to ensure that they meet the environmental
criteria. No subprojects in the annexed Negative List may be financed by the project. The list
includes subprojects under EA category "A", and crops as tobacco, which the Bank is prohibited
from financing.
Secondary screening will involve a review by the municipality to ensure that the subproject is in
accordance with the land use plans. This step will ensure that the subprojects will not have any
negative effect on natural habitats, including established and proposed parks, reserves, etc. The
municipality's approval will be submitted to PCG as a prerequisite for continuing the proposal
processing.
A third screening will use a predefined matrix which identifies possible environmental impacts of
various production activities. This screening will be undertaken by the TA provider along with the
requesting community. The outcome of the screening matrix will determine if a full Environmental
Impact Assessment is required, or if a Limited Environmental Assessment will suffice. This
screening matrix will be submitted to the PCG for review and clearance.
All TA providers are expected to have a minimumn environmental screening and assessment
capacity, and will follow a short training on implementing the methodology for EA/screening.
- 78 -



Environmental Assessment
A few entities, or independent consultants, will be trained in EA methodologies and requirements.
These consultants would then be used for all subproject EAs to ensure that all subprojects have
similar environmental analyses.
Environmental Impact Assessment. In rare cases where the screening identifies significant impacts
of the proposed subprojects, an EIA will be prepared by the trained consultants/entities in
coordination with the TA providers. Draft TORs for the EIAs (to include a detailed EMP) will be
prepared by the TA providers, and submitted to PCG and Bank for clearance. The EIA will be
discussed with the partnership and with the community. The full ELA/EMP will be submitted to
PCG, and the results of the EIA will form part of the proposal. The Panel of Independent Experts
will be charged with reviewing the EIAs/EMPs. During the first year of project implementation,
ELAs will be submitted to the Bank for review.
Limited Environmental Assessment. (LEA) Using the screening matrix, the LEA does more
in-depth analysis, quantifying and/or qualifying the subproject impacts. The LEA will result in a
prioritization of mitigation activities and suggestions for "good operating procedures". The LEA
will be done by the approved EA entities, in coordination with the TA providers and the
communities. Together, they will develop a detailed monitoring plan. The LEA and monitoring plan
will be submitted to PCG for review, and will form part of the proposal submitted to the Panel of
Independent Experts for their consideration.
During this phase, the TA provider will hold a one- to two-day workshop with the partnership to
build environmental awareness, disseminate good practice, discuss environmental impacts of the
projects, and to develop a community-based monitoring plan. PCG will develop a model agenda for
these workshops. Furthermore, agreement by the Partnership, TA provider and PCG on the EMP
(including activities to avoid, mitigate and monitor negative impacts) will be a condition of
subproject financing.
Monitoring and Evaluation
PCG will follow up on all identified mitigation measures, ensuring proper implementation and
potentially negotiating with communities for additional activities, should unforeseen environmental
impacts occur. PCG will decide on the reporting requirements from each subproject (to be part of
the EMP agreement of the Partnership with the PCG) in order to effectively monitor
implementation. PCG will also produce semi-annual reports on the EA and monitoring process.
These reports will be submitted to the Independent External Evaluator in order to facilitate the
impact evaluation of the project, and also to the Bank as part of supervision missions.
Operational guidelines for 5 types of production systems
*   The operational guidelines will ensure that the most common production systems have best practice
design, construction, operation and oversight procedures in place. Where appropriate, these guidelines
will detail requirements to meet ISO 9000 standards. Having standard guidelines will improve
efficiency and consistency. The guidelines will also suggest monitoring plans. As a first step,
guidelines will be produced for palm oil production, after which the success of application and use of
the guidelines will determine whether guidelines for other systems should be produced.
*   Consultant, overseen by Environmental Expert in PCG
*   Operational guidelines produced for 5 production systems (palm oil, organic coffee, etc.)
- 79 -



Agrochemical Guidelines
* General guidelines will be produced that enumerate best practice in pest management plans,
building on analytical work done during project preparation. The plan will stress non-chemical
means of pest management, as well as good practice in other agrochemical use. The guidelines
will cover the entire life-cycle of the agrochemicals, including procurement, transport, storage,
application and disposal. These guidelines will be used in the training programs.
*   Consultant, overseen by Environmental Expert in PCG
* Guidelines and training materials produced
Environmental Education
*   All TA providers are expected to have minimum environmental screening and assessment
capacity, and will be required to undergo a short training in the use of the environmental
screening and assessment methodology set forth by PCG. The entities that will perform the
EAs will also be required to undergo training. This is in order to ensure similar EA throughout
the country, across all productive systems. Additionally, the partnerships will be required to
undergo a one- to two-day workshop in order to receive financing; the cost for this is considered
in the cost of EA preparation. This subcomponent is a mix of training the trainers, developing
training materials, and public outreach.
* Consultant and/or environmental expert in PCG
* 2 training courses given annually to TA providers; all partnerships having attended a workshop;
EA entities trained and producing satisfactory EAs
- 80 -



APPENDIX 1
Negative list
The project will not finance any subproject which will be classified as category A under the Bank's
EA policy, or subprojects which are implemented in violation of Colombia's environmental laws
and environmental impact assessment procedures, or Colombia's laws on treatment of cultural
heritage.  Specifically, subprojects involving the following activities will be excluded from
financing:
1. Dam construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation or strengthening, with the exception of irrigation dams
or rural electrification dams no more than 3 meters in height, with a reservoir size of no more than 10
hectares.
2. Activities negatively affecting natural protected areas recognized by national, departmental or
municipal governments (or buffer zones thereof), other than as required to mitigate damage caused by a
natural disaster.
3. Land reclamation (i.e., drainage of wetlands or filling of water bodies to create land).
4. Land clearance and leveling (when affecting critical natural habitats and natural land contours, natural
habitats for this purpose being those water or land areas where most of the original plant and animal
species are still present).
5. Hazardous waste management and disposal, as well as manufacture, transport and use of pesticides
and other hazardous and/or toxic materials (except small amounts of solvents, degreasing materials,
paints, fuels and the like used during construction).
6. Use of pesticides that are eligible to be financed are limited to those that are approved by the
Colombian Agriculture Institute (Instituto Colombiano de Agricultura), are not prohibited by
Colombian Law, are not in the World Health Organization lists (i.e., are not formulated products
within classes IA and IB, or are formulations of products in Class II of WHO Guidelines), and are not
know threats to wildlife or public health.
7. River training (i.e., realignment, contraction or deepening of an existing river channel, or excavation of
a new river channel).
8. Activities involving industrial plants (large-scale) and industrial estates, except activities involving
agro-industrial plants.
9. New road construction or major upgrading or realignment of roads (major means: changing the road
category, such as from seasonal to all-weather or secondary to primary; adding new lanes; or changing
road surface).
10. New irrigation, drainage and flood control works which have a command area greater than 200
hectares.
11. (a)Activities which, when being carried out, would affect, or involve the use of, water of rivers or of
other bodies of water (or their tributaries) which flow through or are bordered by countries other than
Colombia, in such a manner as to in any way adversely change the quality or quantity of water flowing
to or bordering said countries; and (b) activities involving the installation or construction of facilities
which, when operated after their construction or installation, would affect, or involve the use of, water
of rivers or of other bodies of water (or their tributaries) which flow through or are bordered by
countries other than Colombia, in such a manner as to in any way adversely change the quality or
quantity of water flowing to or bordering said countries (unless such bordering countries have formally
expressed in writing to the Bank and to the Borrower their no-objection to the activities referred to in
(a) or (b) herein).
12. Activities relating to forestry production that negatively effect existent primary forests.
13. Development of new, or expansion of existing, ports and harbors.
- 81 -



14. Mariculture or large-scale aquaculture activities, or aquaculture which would introduce aggressive
non-native species to any natural water bodies where they are not already long-established 15. River
basin development activities.
16. Development of new, or expansion of existing, thermal power and hydropower facilities, except for
small rural electrification projects.
17. Infrastructure works estimated to cost over $300,000 equivalent or greater than 20% of the Productive
Partnership Subproject's budget.
18. Activities of any type classifiable as category A for environmental purposes pursuant to Annex B of
the Bank's December 1998 policy document entitled Good Practices (GP) 4.01.
19. Conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats (as defined in the Bank's September 1995
Operational Policy (OP) 4.04, Annex A, on natural habitats).
20. Any civil works which would adversely affect significant cultural property, including archeological and
historical sites.
21. Activities relating to, or in preparation for, exploitation of any plant or animal species listed in
the Convention of International Trade in Endangered Species of Fauna and Flora (CITES),
except that such activities may be carried out as part of a Productive Partnership Subproject if
the individual plant or animal specimens in question: (i) are of a species not listed in CITES
Appendix I or qualify as part of CITES Appendix II pursuant to CITES Article VII (4); (ii)
qualify for the issuance of certificates pursuant to CITES Article VII (5) and are bred or
propagated from parent specimens that also qualify for the issuance of such certificates; and
(iii) are to be placed in trade or otherwise disposed of in a manner consistent with the terms of
CITES.
- 82 -






IBRD 31251
780                                          4
L  .N\<<                                                                    '      t               70' lL 
.1.2    -             0 ,    Ca / i  rib bea
\,. - Sea                                   Ria7kaca                     fgCOLOMB  u                             S
X t f  t;0  \ 00    \>   A NT I 1)   U I A  S  A N    7     _fJ        Ri    CasRnArrZ\.                                  )
PAN A
80~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
PACl F               U CCH+A_%                                         ~
OCEAN    DA             CUNDINAMARcA   nia   *   CASANARE~~~~~~~~~~~Te owoie, olrs iniaiosan ay d iknato
~~~~~~~~~~~~~DO                                                                                shopoonth  MF,,awtknp1yonJoee   
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
17                                                                        c6ctARIG *encioU                              A V  I A Rny
COLOMBIA                                                                                      =
0    Departmnent Capitals <AMAZONASf
o   National Capital                                                                             t
-     Department Boundaries.
-   -  International Boundaries                                                                     D E
0      5i0    100    150 MILES
O   100       200 KILOMETERS                                               .
78                                         74                     , *t'                700
Rio ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~DCME C2001r



