Page  1
2001
Dr. Juan Carlos Echeverry
Director General
Departamento Nacional de Planeación
Bogotá, D.C. Colombia
Fax: (57-1) 334-0221
Ms. Emilia Ruiz de Ramírez
Director General
Agencia Colombiana de
Cooperación Internacional
Bogotá, D.C., Colombia
Fax: (57-1) 341-9672
Re:
Colombia: Japanese Grant for the preparation of the
Productive Partnership for Peace Project
Amendment to the TF Grant Agreement No. 025829
Dear Dr. Echeverry and Ms. Ruiz de Ramírez:
Please refer to the Letter Agreement for the preparation of the Productive 
Partnership for Peace Project (the Grant),  signed by the Republic of Colombia (the 
Recipient) on July 28, 1999 and by the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan (the Bank) on June 30, 
1999.
We are pleased to inform you that pursuant to our recent discussions regarding  
supplemental financing for this Grant, the Bank agrees to increase the amount of the 
Grant in an amount not exceeding ninety thousand U.S. Dollars (US$90,000) and 
consequently, amend the Letter Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 1.1 is hereby amended and replaced in its entirely to read as follows:
"1.
Purpose and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of a 
project which has as its main objective the establishment of economically viable 
enterprises in rural areas in Colombia which have been most affected by political 
violence.  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given consist of the 
provision of technical assistance for:
(a) an assessment of the economic and social feasibility of adapting to Colombia 
conditions the model of agribusiness-peasant partnership for palm oil plantation 
implemented in Malaysia;
(b) identification of other opportunities for partnerships, such as 
agribusiness-peasant alliances, which are geared towards the needs and capabilities of 
specific categories of beneficiaries; 
(c) preparation of concrete proposals for such partnerships;
(d) preparation of an operational manual for the Project;
(e) development of a user-friendly interface for the facilitation of 
communications between the Project and its beneficiaries; and
(f) establishment of a financial management system for the Project."
2.
Section 4.2 is hereby amended and replaced in its entirely to read as follows:
"4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
   % of
    Allocated
Expenditures
Page  2
Item
(in U.S. Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services
394,000
100%
(2)
Training
 25,000
100%
TOTAL
419,000
3.
Section 4.3 is hereby amended and replaced in its entirely to read as follows:
"4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by the Bank; (b) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in 
the territory of the Recipient; (c) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member of the Bank or for services supplied from such 
territories; (d) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such 
payment, to the Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (e) 
after December 31, 2001 or such later date as the Bank shall establish by written 
notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be made for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding application is 
received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any 
amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled."
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment, by signing this 
letter in the spaces provided and returning it to us. This amendment shall be executed 
in two counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original. The amendment shall 
become effective as of the latest date of countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Director
Country Management Unit
Colombia, Mexico, and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Departamento Nacional de Planeación
By /s/ Juan Carlos Echeverry
Director General
Date:
March 17, 2001
Agencia Colombiana de Cooperación Internacional
By /s/ Emilia Ruiz
Director General
Date:
March 21, 2001
