Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND NUMBER 029532
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Land Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated July 25, 1996
TRUST FUND NUMBER 029532
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 25, 1996, between Republic of Colombia (the Recipient) and 
the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as 
Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank and International Development Association (the Association), Japan has 
requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, 
to administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain 
programs and projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, 
in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of 
said grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical 
assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the 
Grant pursuant to the letter agreement between Japan and the Bank 
and the Association referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, 
except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting 
in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on 
its books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the 
Grant is credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in Dollars; 
provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the Grant 
have been paid or are payable in another currency, the Administrator shall, at 
the request of the Recipient, purchase such currency with the proceeds of such 
withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following terms 
have the following meaning:
(a)
"Dollars" and the sign "$" mean dollars in the currency of the United 
States of America;
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(c)
"Administrative Committee" means the committee formed by representatives 
Page  3
of: (i) the Recipient’s Dirección Nacional de Planeación; (ii) the Recipient’s Vice 
Minister of Rural Development within the Ministry of Agriculture; (iii) the legal 
entity, if any, referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement; and 
(iv) the General Coordinator within the unit mentioned in paragraph (b) of such 
Section 3.01, and established to provide advice to the aforesaid unit with respect to 
the Technical Assistance and to other project preparation activities of the Borrower 
currently financed under the Project Preparation Facility Advance (Proposed Land 
Reform Project) provided for under the agreement between the Recipient and the Bank - 
PPF 282 - dated October 26, 1995 as such agreement has been amended up to March 12, 
1996 and as it may be further amended by agreement between the Recipient and the Bank.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an 
amount of seven hundred thirty four thousand and five hundred Dollars ($734,500).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such 
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the 
Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of carrying out the Project and to be financed 
out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, if so authorized by the Bank and for the purposes of 
the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its Banco de la 
República on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits into, 
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Recipient shall carry out the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.  For purposes of this Section, the 
Recipient, through its Departamento Nacional de Planeación and the Vice Ministry of 
Rural Development of the Recipient’s Ministry of Agriculture, may enter into 
contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with a legal entity acceptable to 
the Bank, under which arrangements such entity shall, on behalf of the aforesaid 
administrative subdivisions of the Recipient and following instructions therefrom, 
execute and deliver each and all necessary contracts for the provision of services 
under the Project and make the payments required thereunder.
(b)
The Recipient shall carry out day to day activities under the Project 
through the project implementation unit which has been established pursuant to 
paragraph 3 of Attachment I to the agreement between the Recipient and the Bank 
mentioned in paragraph (c) of Section 1.02 (c) of this Agreement - PPF 282 and will 
operate under the advice of the Administrative Committee.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have or cause to be had the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and those for the Special Account 
Page  4
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Administrator as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than four months after the 
end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Administrator such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Administrator shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Administrator has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto.
Section 4.02.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Director of the Recipient’s Departamento Nacional de 
Planificación  and the Vice Ministro de Desarrollo Rural of the Recipient’s Ministry 
of Agriculture are severally designated as representatives of the Recipient for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Director
Departamento Nacional de Planificación
Calle 26 No. 13-19
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Colombia
Telex: 
Page  5
45634 DNPBO CO
or
Vice Ministro de
Desarrollo Rural
Ministerio de Agricultura
Avenida Jiménez 7 - 65, piso 3
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Colombia
Telex:
44470MAGR CO
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) and
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Juan Carlos Ramirez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Peter Ludwig
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
   388,800
100%
services
(2)
Services other
   160,425
100%
than Consultant
services
Page  6
(3)
Goods under Part D
    40,500
100%
of the Project
(4)
Operating Expenditures
    71,325
100%
for the unit referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement 
(5)
Unallocated
    73,450
TOTAL
   734,500
2.
For purposes of Category (4) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, operating  expenditures for the unit referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement shall include travel expenditures and per-diem, maintenance and running 
costs for equipment, facility rentals, office supplies, and promotional and training 
materials.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for the Technical Assistance 
under contracts not exceeding $40,000 equivalent, in the case of goods and services 
other than consultant services, and $30,000 and $75,000 equivalent, in the case of 
individual consultants and consultant firms, respectively, under such terms and 
conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient, provided, 
however, that statements of expenditure will not be used in connection with contracts 
with consultants which, irrespective of their cost, are subject to prior review by the 
Bank pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Section 1 of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
A technical assistance program to assist in the preparation of a land reform 
project through the execution of the studies described below, which studies will be 
aimed at achieving the following goals: (a) shape the scope of activities and the 
modalities of financing to be provided under the aforesaid project; (b) help define 
the  magnitude of  the activities under the aforesaid project which could be financed 
by external sources; (c) quantify costs and benefits of project activities; and (d) 
identify the need to support and complement project activities with a series of 
selected policy reforms and help determine whether the current legal framework is 
adequate to accommodate the policy reforms required, if any.
Part A:
Dynamics of rural land markets in Colombia
The one or more studies under this Part A will: (1) describe the principal 
characteristic of the rural land markets; (2) quantify the sensitivity of land prices 
in relation to range of expected changes in demand and supply induced by the 
activities geared to implement the land reform program under the Recipient’s Ley 160 
of 1994; and (3) identify the principal factors determining land prices and explaining 
the actual functioning of rural land markets. The study or studies in question would 
also look into the variations in the functioning of rural land markets in the several 
relevant Colombian agro-ecological regions and the relation of such variations with 
the current structure of production systems in each of such regions. The research 
methodology would include, inter alia, a survey among landowners, a review of land 
property registers, interviews with real state agents, selected public officials and 
other persons involved in activities connected with the land market, including public 
notaries and auctioneers, and a review of the applicable legal provisions relevant to 
the different aspects of the activities involved in the land market.
Part B:
Farm size and efficiency relationship in Colombian agriculture
The one or more studies under this Part will: (1) evaluate the economic 
efficiency of small-farmer agricultural production in different agro-ecological 
regions; and (2) identify and quantify the economic effects of parceling out large 
estates into smaller units of production. The study  or studies in question will 
require, inter alia, an in-depth analysis of a range of production, efficiency, and 
cost indicators obtained from a large sample of farms stratified according to area of 
Page  7
exploitation and agro-ecological region. Based on the said study or studies’ results a 
range of models will be elaborated to evaluate the likely production, income and 
employment impact of substituting large estates by smaller production units.
Part C:
Diagnosis of complementary investments
The one or more studies under this Part will identify and evaluate the scope and 
magnitude of complementary investments required by the Colombian land reform program, 
such as technical and management support services, credit, marketing, on-farm 
infrastructure and off-farm infrastructure such as road, electrification and water 
supply and irrigation. Needs of prospective beneficiaries and evaluation of existing 
supply of services will be assessed.
Part D:
Acquisition and utilization of goods (including materials and computer 
equipment) as required for the carrying out of Parts A through C above.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Services other than Consultant Services
Part A:
General
Goods and the aforesaid services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable. The term "Borrower", wherever used in said 
Guidelines, means the Recipient or any procurement agency thereof such as the legal 
entity provided for under Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and services other than consultants’ services, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $40,000 or more per contract,  shall be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, as 
supplemented by the provisions of Part D of this Section I.
2.
National Shopping
Goods and services other than Consultants’ services, estimated to cost less than 
$40,000 equivalent per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods or services other than consultant 
services, estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part D:  
Procurement Provisions Concerning National Competitive Bidding
1.
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, will be 
treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or 
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their 
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall not 
be any requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder’s registration in any 
public registry, chamber of commerce or similar, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or 
to appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such bidder is 
awarded the corresponding contract.
2.
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
Page  8
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for 
the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall 
coincide with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the period for 
bid submission stipulated in the bidding documents.
3.
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions 
and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional 
to the amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such 
factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes 
of determining the lowest evaluated bidder, shall be precisely stipulated in the 
bidding documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount 
or amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors.
4.
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guideline shall fully apply and, more 
specifically, bids shall not be disclosed, without the corresponding bidder’s written 
authorization, to persons other than the persons officially charged with the task of 
comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are performing their official duties. 
Moreover, bidder shall not be required to provide such authorization as a condition to 
be entitled to bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply until the award of 
contract is notified to the successful bidder. Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids 
shall be limited to those bid portions for which confidentiality has been specifically 
requested by the bidder in question
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Project, the Recipient 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). The term “Borrower” wherever used in said Guidelines 
means the Borrower or any procurement agencies thereof such as the legal entity 
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement. For complex time-based assignments, the 
Recipient shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of 
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the Administrator. Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall use other standard forms 
agreed with the Administrator.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall not apply to: (a) the 
terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting 
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Administrator; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $75,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$30,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the amount of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  9
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Administrator from the Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator within 
the period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect 
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  10
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions
