                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR0000860




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-70970)




                                     ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 32.0 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                     FOR A




               PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS SUPPORT PROJECT




                                 March 14, 2009




LCSSD
Mexico and Colombia Country Department
Latin America and Caribbean Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2008
                     Currency Unit = Colombian Pesos
                           Co$1.00 = US$ 0.00043
                           US$ 1.00 = Co$2,335

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 to December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CI      Inter-Sectoral Commission (Comisión Intersectoral)
GCP     Project Implementation Unit (Grupo de Coordinación del Proyecto)
IAPA    Index measuring the adoption of the partnership principles (Indice de la
        Apropiación de los Principes de Alianza)
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IICA    Inter-American Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture
INCODER Colombian Institute for Rural Development (Instituto Colombiano para el
        Desarrollo Rural)
INCORA  Colombian Institute for Land Tenure Reform (Instituto Colombiano para
        la Reforma Agraria)
IPM     Integrated Pest Management
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
MADR    Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (Ministerio de Agricultura
        y de Desarrollo Rural)
MIDAS   Program More Investment for Alternative Rural Development "Más
        Inversión para el Desarrollo Alternativo Sostenible", USAID Financed
NPV     Net Present Value
OGA     Local Management Organization (Organización de Gestión Acompañante)
OGR     Regional Management Organization (Organización de Gestión Regional)
PDO     Project Development Objectives
PHRD    Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PO      Producer Organization
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
SA      Departmental Secretariats of Agriculture


                        Vice President: Pamela Cox
                      Country Director: Axel van Trotsenburg
                       Sector Manager: Ethel Sennhauser
                  Project Team Leader: Marie-Hélène Collion
                    ICR Team Leader: Pierre Werbrouck

                                                COLOMBIA
                        Productive Partnerships Support Project
                                                CONTENTS
Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph



 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............... ................- 1 -
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............ ..................- 5 -
 B. Key Dates.................................................................................................................. iv
 C. Ratings Summary...................................................................................................... iv
 D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... v
 E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................... v
 F. Results Framework Analysis...................................................................................... v
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................viii
 H. Restructuring (if any)................................................................................................ ix
 I. Disbursement Profile................................................................................................. ix
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...........................................- 1 -
 3. Assessment of Outcomes......................................................................................- 11 -
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.....................................................- 21 -
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................- 22 -
 6.    Lessons Learned................................................................................................- 24 -
 General lessons .........................................................................................................- 24 -
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ......- 26 -
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing......................................................................- 27 -
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.............................................................- 33 -
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........- 43 -
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results.......................................................................- 45 -
 Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................- 53 -
 MAP

                                      DATASHEET

A. Basic Information

                                                                  PRODUCTIVE
Country:                Colombia             Project Name:        PARTNERSHIPS
                                                                  SUPPORT PROJECT
Project ID:             P041642              L/C/TF Number(s):    IBRD-70970
ICR Date:               05/15/2008           ICR Type:            Core ICR
                                                                  REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                  Borrower:
                                                                  COLOMBIA
Original Total
                        USD 32.0M            Disbursed Amount:    USD 22.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date           Process        Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                           Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/17/1999   Effectiveness:                       05/15/2002
Appraisal:             03/26/2001   Restructuring(s):
Approval:              01/22/2002   Mid-term Review:     05/31/2005      06/17/2005
                                    Closing:             09/30/2007      09/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                    S
Risk to Development Outcome:                 M
Bank Performance:                            S
Borrower Performance:                        S


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings              Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       MS                   Government:          S

Quality of Supervision: S                    Implementing
                                             Agency/Agencies:     S

Overall Bank                                 Overall Borrower
Performance:            S                    Performance:         S

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agro-industry                                                    44                 40
Central government administration                                12                 10
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                 44                 50


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Improving labor markets                                         Primary        Secondary
Other financial and private sector development                  Primary          Primary
Other rural development                                         Primary          Primary
Other social development                                       Secondary        Secondary
Pollution management and environmental health                  Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                         David De Ferranti
Country Director:         Axel van Trotsenburg               Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:           Ethel Sennhauser                   J. Redwood / M. Cackler
Project Team Leader:      Marie-Helene Collion               Pierre Werbrouck
ICR Team Leader:          Marie-Helene Collion
ICR Primary Author:       Pierre Werbrouck



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To generate income, create employment, and promote social cohesion of poor rural
communities in an economic and environmental sustainable manner through the

development and implementation of a demand-driven productive partnership scheme
with the private sector

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target              Formally            Actual Value

   Indicator     Baseline Value          Values (from                                   Achieved at
                                            approval            Revised Target         Completion or
                                          documents)                 Values             Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Producers participating in productive partnerships increase their income by 20%
                compared to the baseline
                                                               At the end of a
                                                               partnership cycle at
                                                               least 70 percent of
                                    Producers participating the producers          Economic and financial
                                                                                   analysis of a sample of
Value                               in productive              participating in    23 partnerships (out of
quantitative or None                partnerships increase      productive
                                    their income by 20%        partnerships have   136) indicates that
qualitative                         compared to the            increased their     average incomes

                                    baseline                   income by 10        increased by 77% with

                                                               percent compared    important variations.

                                                               to the baseline of
                                                               each partnership
Date achieved 01/31/2002            09/30/2007                 09/30/2008          09/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Based on independent data, this indicator is considered as 100% achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   An increase of 50 percent in employment in the participating production units of which
                40 percent is employment for women
                                                                                   Economic and financial
                                                                                   analysis of a sample of
                                                                                   23 partnerships (out of

                                                               At the end of the   136) indicates that
                                    An increase of 50          project,            employment increased
Value                               percent in employment      employment in at    by about 0.8 person-

quantitative or None                in the participating                           years per family, a 70
                                    production units of        least 70 percent of percent increase. 15%
Qualitative)                        which 40 percent is        the partnerships    of the partnerships are
                                    employment for women       will have increased
                                                               by 10 percent       with women household
                                                                                   heads, However, no
                                                                                   data were collected on
                                                                                   overall women
                                                                                   employment.
Date achieved 01/31/2002            09/30/2007                 09/30/2008          09/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        This indicator can be considered as 100% achieved, although there is no information on
                the gender aspects of the employment created.
achievement)
                At the end of the project at least 70 percent of the producer associations will have
Indicator 3 :   attained an adequate social partnerships index measuring social cohesion and partnership
                principles

                                       Original Target           Formally            Actual Value

   Indicator     Baseline Value          Values (from                                 Achieved at
                                            approval          Revised Target         Completion or
                                          documents)               Values            Target Years
                                                                                 Social impact analysis
                                                                                 shows that 35 percent of
                                                                                 partnerships reached an
                                                                                 adequate social
Value                                                        70% of associationspartnerships index.

quantitative or None                 Not included as         reach adequate      Partnerships will need
                                     indicator               social partnerships more time and effort to
qualitative                                                  index;              be socially sustainable.
                                                                                 Nevertheless,
                                                                                 beneficiary survey
                                                                                 indicates important
                                                                                 social achievements
Date achieved 01/31/2004             09/30/2007              09/30/2008          09/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        This indicator, introduced after mid-term review, was achieved for an estimated 50
                percent.
achievement)
                Five regional management organizations (NGOs) with the capacity to structure and
Indicator 4 :   follow-up productive partnerships; and 10 NGOs specialized and capable of monitoring
                and assisting producer organizations involved in productive partnerships.
                                                             Five regional
                                                             management
                                                             organizations
                                                             (NGOs) have the
                                                             capacity to
                                                             structure and
                                                             follow-up           5 regional NGOs
                                                                                 (OGR) comply and 64
Value                                                        productive          local NGOs (OGA)
quantitative or                                              partnerships; and
                                                             10 NGOs are         comply. They are now
qualitative                                                  specialized and     engaged in the

                                                             capable of          implementation of the

                                                             monitoring and      follow-up project.

                                                             assisting producer
                                                             organizations
                                                             involved in
                                                             productive
                                                             partnerships.
Date achieved 01/31/2002             09/30/2007              09/30/2008          09/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        This indicator, introduced after mid-term review, was achieved for more than 100 percent
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target         Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value            Values (from                             Achieved at
                                                  approval             Revised         Completion or
                                                documents)        Target Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   100 productive partnerships are formalized, consolidated and are operating in a
                sustainable manner and contain conflict resolution schemes
Value
(quantitative   0                            100                  100               136
or qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2002                     09/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        This indicator was achieved for more than 100% (136%)
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Monitoring and evaluation system properly operating and updated
                                                                                     Monitoring and
Value                                        Monitoring and                         evaluation system
(quantitative   N/A                          evaluation system
                                             properly operating                     properly operating
or qualitative)                              and updated                            and updated since
                                                                                    March 2007
Date achieved 01/31/2002                     09/30/2007                             09/30/2008
Comments        This indicator has been achieved during half of the time. The project was monitoring
(incl. %        implementation since the beginning but for the first few years, the system could not
achievement)    produce consistent reports. The project financed three independent impact evaluations.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                          Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                  DO                            IP                  Disbursements
                                                                                      (USD millions)
  1      01/24/2002            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                          0.00
  2      05/19/2002            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                          0.00
  3      08/15/2002            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                          2.31
  4      01/02/2003            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                          2.47
  5      06/20/2003            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                          2.90
  6      12/04/2003            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                          3.91
  7      06/18/2004            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                          5.08
  8      12/09/2004            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                          7.46
  9      04/19/2005            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                          8.00
  10     09/30/2005     Moderately Satisfactory             Satisfactory                          9.01
  11     02/08/2006     Moderately Satisfactory             Satisfactory                        10.36
  12     04/01/2006     Moderately Satisfactory             Satisfactory                        11.10
  13     10/06/2006     Moderately Satisfactory             Satisfactory                        14.39
  14     01/11/2007            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                        16.05
  15     06/27/2007            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                        19.34
  16     10/20/2007            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                        21.64
  17     05/12/2008            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                        22.00

                                                          Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO               IP         Disbursements
                                                       (USD millions)
  18  09/30/2008        Satisfactory    Satisfactory           22.00



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile

                                                - 1 -



1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The origins of the project date from 1995 when the Borrower and the Bank examined the
possibility of initiating a market-based land reform project. By 1999, elections had taken place
and the incoming Government changed its priorities. The Borrower decided to drop the idea of a
market-based land reform project and instead to initiate a program linking farmers to markets.

The main sector issues at that time were high rural poverty with 79 percent of rural people living
under the poverty line and prevailing violence in the rural areas (1.9 million people displaced).
The violence was caused by inequality, exclusion of rural people from political power, land
tenure issues and the drug trade. There was also untapped agricultural potential but difficult
develop, for lack of access to land and to rural finance.

The Government's rural strategy was to integrate the rural sector into the national economy by
increasing competitiveness, equality and sustainability as well as by pursuing a Peace Process.
The Government`s policy framework had four pillars: (i) providing incentives for rural capital
investments; (ii) subsidizing land improvements; (iii) reducing risks through crop insurance and
(iv) increasing access to rural finance. The project responded to the first and fourth pillar of the
Government policy.

The Government initiated countrywide programs to promote agricultural value chains and
producers integration within them. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
(MADR) strengthened the value chain department to improve coordination and increase
efficiencies amongst value chain actors.

The project also was a good fit for the 1997 CAS focus on overall growth, poverty reduction,
improving social conditions and sustainability of development actions. The project was to
promote growth in rural areas by increasing competitiveness of farmers and their organizations.
Enhancing social cohesion in rural areas was another objective. Moreover, the project was to
ensure sustainable development by creating employment and developing human capital
(providing knowledge and business skills).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The objective of the Project was to generate income, create employment and promote social
cohesion of poor rural communities in an economic and environmentally sustainable manner
through the development and implementation of a demand-driven productive partnerships
scheme with the private sector.

Under the project, a productive partnership is define as any collaborative arrangement between
an organization of small producers and an agribusiness or commercial enterprise with the
objective to improve productivity and marketing efficiency in a particular value chain. The

                                                  - 2 -


partnership aims at reducing technical, commercial, financial and/or social risks and creating
win-win situations.

The project was to contribute to: (i) reactivating the rural economy; (ii) improving the living
conditions of poor rural inhabitants; and (iii) generating an enabling environment for peace.

Key indicators were:
        (i)     Producers participating in productive partnerships increase their income by 20%
                compared to the baseline;
        (ii)    An increase of 50 percent in employment in the participating production units of
                which 40 percent would be employment for women;
        (iii)   Agricultural productivity in production units has increased on average by 20
                percent compared to regional indicators;
        (iv)    100 productive partnerships are formalized and consolidated; they are operating in
                a sustainable manner and contain conflict resolution schemes;
        (v)     100 productive partnerships reimburse their commercial bank credit (if any) on
                time and at a recovery rate of 90% or more;
        (vi)    Productive partnerships present an internal rate of return of 15 percent; and
        (vii)   Project monitoring and evaluation system properly operating and updated.

1.3 Revised Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

The Government and the Bank revised some of the indicators during the mid-term review to:
(i) make them more realistic in function of what was attainable within the project period and
more easily measurable through the monitoring and evaluation system and (ii) better reflect
institutional sustainability and social cohesion objectives, as follows:
 The original target income and employment indicators were adjusted to take into account the
    longer than expected duration of the partnership project preparation and implementation
    cycle. Most partnerships were planned for the second half of the project and therefore, they
    could not have the full impact that could be expected from partnerships implemented during
    the first half.
 It was not feasible to compare productivity growth with that of the region, as the productivity
    data in the regional statistics are not reliable. Though the indicator was no longer measured,
    the effect of productivity growth is reflected through the income indicator.
 A social index1 was introduced to measure social cohesion. Social cohesion was part of the
    project objectives, but no indicator was identified to measure that objective at the time of
    project preparation.
 An indicator to measure institution building was also added. Although strengthening local
    and regional institution building was not part of the PDOs, the Bank and MADR concluded
    at mid-term review that the project could not reach its objectives without strong regional and
    local institutions.




1IAPA (Spanish acronym) ­ Index measuring the adoption of the partnership principles: mutual trust, degree of
cohesion (networks) and participation,

                                                       - 3 -


The following key outcome indicators have guided project implementation since the mid-term
review:

       (i)      At the end of a partnership cycle at least 70 percent of the producers participating
                in productive partnerships have increased their income by 10 percent compared to
                the baseline of each partnership;
       (ii)     At the end of the project, employment in at least 70 percent of the partnerships
                will have increased by 10 percent;
       (iii)    At the end of the project at least 70 percent of the producer associations will have
                attained an adequate social partnerships index measuring cohesion and adoption
                of partnership principles; and
       (iv)     Five regional management organizations (NGOs/ Service Firms and Institutions)
                have the capacity to structure and follow-up productive partnerships; and 10 local
                management organizations (NGOs/ Service Firms and Institutions)) are
                specialized and capable of monitoring and assisting producer organizations
                involved in productive partnerships.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The original target population consisted of 10,000 low-income smallholders with under-
exploited land plots, rural day laborers without land and displaced families. At least 1,000
families would be headed by women. To benefit from the project, producers had to be poor
heads of households with at least 75 percent of income derived from agriculture, earning no more
than two minimum wages per month and between 18 and 60 years old. The beneficiaries needed
had to be literate and demonstrate willingness to participate in training. They had to have
agricultural experience in relation to the proposed partnership. They could not own assets valued
at more than 200 minimum wages2. Although the project would not target specific population
groups, it would accommodate the special conditions and needs of indigenous people, Afro-
Colombians and internally displaced populations.

1.5 Original Components

Component 1: Preparation of Productive Partnerships Subprojects (US$6.2 million at
appraisal; US$3.1 million at project closing).

This component financed technical assistance and training related to:
       (i)      communications and publicity in the rural areas to solicit partnership proposals to
                be financed under the project;
       (ii)     screening and selection of partnership proposals; and
       (iii)    studies related to the preparation, evaluation and structuring of partnerships; they
                include technical, commercial, financial, environmental and social feasibility
                studies for each partnership. Consulting firms and Regional Management
                Organizations (Organización de Gestión Regional ­ OGR ) carried out the
                preparation studies.


2The project conducted a social survey of the beneficiaries of each partnership to verify those requirements.

                                                       - 4 -



Once a year, the Departmental Secretariats of Agriculture (SA) launched an information
campaign to receive partnerships proposals. The SA made a first ranking and pre-selected the
proposals up to the number of partnerships allocated to their Department. They sent the pre-
selected proposals to the OGR that carried out an evaluation. The OGR ranked the proposals of
the region (each region has 2 to 4 departments), and the best 40% were selected for the pre-
inversion studies. The OGR carried out pre-investment studies to determine whether the
proposed partnerships were viable or not. The GCP presented the results of the pre-investment
studies to the Intersectoral Committee, composed of representatives of MADR, other
stakeholders and the private sector. The Intersectoral Committee reviewed and approved the
proposals considered viable. In total, the project screened 342 partnership proposals, carried out
177 feasibility studies and approved 136 partnerships for financing.

Component 2: Implementation of Productive Partnerships Subprojects (US$41.1 million at
appraisal; US$20.6 million at closing).

Under this component, the Government provided:
         (i)         grants (also called cost sharing transfers or Incentivo Modular) to participating
                     small farmer organizations for on-farm infrastructure, machinery and
                     equipment, vegetative materials, fertilizers, chemicals, labor costs, studies,
                     surveys, and purchase of land (to be financed from counterpart funds); and
         (ii)        technical assistance, follow-up and training for partnership participants carried
                     out by local Non-Government Organizations, private consulting firms and/or
                     institutions (Organización de Gestión Acompañante - OGA) during a period
                     from one to three years.

The grant amount per family was subject to several conditions. The grant could not exceed 40
percent of the total partnership investment cost. There was a maximum grant amount per family
of Co$ 6 million (US$2,600 equivalent) as specified in the Incentivo Modular Presidential
Decree3. This grant amount per family could increase to US$7,600 equivalent if the project
would finance the purchase of land for landless farmers. The grant was paid in three tranches
into a trust account in the name of the farmer association. A trust company4 supervised the trust
account and controlled the use of the grant funds including compliance with procurement rules.
The Ministry of Agriculture required that the beneficiaries reimburse the grant into a revolving
fund managed by the producer organization.

In addition to technical assistance, the project granted about US$19.7 million to 136 partnerships
and 11,714 farming families. Progressively the project became active in 27 of the 32
Departments in Colombia.




3The Incentivo Modular Decree 321 of February 28, 2002 also included provisions for renting and purchasing land;
but no land was purchased or rented with project funds.
4Trust companies (fiduciaria) in Colombia manage funds on behalf of public institutions, private companies and
joint ventures. They are bound by strict financial management rules under bank regulator supervision.

                                                - 5 -


The partnerships are for cocoa, coffee, berries, milk and milk products, natural fibers, plantain,
fruit, honey and aquaculture (for a complete list, see Annex 2, Table 3): . Crops account for 76
percent of the partnerships (Annex 2, table 4.a), livestock 14 percent and aquaculture and
forestry 10 percent. Perennial crops account for 60 percent of the crops (Annex 2, table 4.b).

There are 108 private commercial partners for the 118 partnerships still in operation (Annex 2).
Several partnerships work with only one private sector partner while 32 partnerships work with
more than one partner. Some 56 percent of the commercial partners are large operators in
Colombia, 35 percent are medium firms and 9 percent are small firms.

About 56 percent of the partnerships sell to agro-processors (chocolate manufacturers, fruit
juices, milk processors, oil extraction, coffee processors, rubber manufacturers), 32 percent sell
to wholesalers and exporters, 7 percent to supermarkets and 5 percent to specialized retailers.

Some 78 percent of the partnerships cater exclusively for the domestic market, while 30 percent
export or have the potential to export. Of the total production, 63 percent is primary produce
used in industrial processes and 36 percent is for the fresh market. One percent is production of
seeds.

Component 3: Project Management (US$4.7 million at appraisal, US$4.6 million at closing)

Under this component, the project financed a Project Coordinating Group (GCP) within the
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR), including its operating costs and
monitoring and evaluation studies. The GCP was composed of a coordinator and several
specialists in agribusiness, environment, social development, financial analysis and monitoring
and evaluation.

1.6 Revised Components (N/A)

1.7 Other significant changes


MADR introduced an important new feature into the operational manual that required the
individual beneficiaries to reimburse the grant into a revolving fund in the name of the farmer
organizations to enable the organizations to include more members and grow their business.
Such reimbursement was not part of the original project design. However, the Ministry did not
want the grant to be a "give-away" to individual farmers.

After a few unsuccessful attempts to finance land for landless farmers, the project team
abandoned the purchase of land because of the complexities of the land market and the lack of
budget (fiscal space). Nevertheless, some 30 percent of the participating farmers had previously
received land from the Colombian Land Tenure Reform Institute (INCORA).

Project financing was revised downwards in 2004 when it became obvious that the projected
annual budget (fiscal space) of the project within MADR was insufficient. Moreover, the
implementation of the project was quite slow at the beginning. Based on the experience up to
2004, MADR and the Bank teams estimated that it would be impossible to spend all the project

                                              - 6 -


funds before project closing. Therefore, the Government and the Bank agreed to reduce the loan
from US$ 32 million to US$22 million, while the Government reduced its contribution from
$20.3 million to $8.44 million.

                                                         - 7 -


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project preparation benefited from two Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
(PHRD) grants ($1.15 million)5 and two Project Preparation Facilities (US$1.826 million) which
financed the preparation of the abandoned land market reform project, the productive
partnerships project as well as the establishment of four pilot productive partnerships. The
integration of this pilot experience was important for the quality of the design.

The basic design of the project was sound. The project had clear and single coherent objectives.
At the time of project preparation, the Bank had little or no experience with projects linking
farmers to the private sector. Hence, the preparation team took risks with a design that was
highly innovative. The project's implementation structure was based on three principles: (i) the
public sector coordinates the project; (ii) the project activities are decentralized and implemented
under a private sector umbrella; and (iii) there is ample scope for stakeholder participation. Its
main features such as the use of trust companies and private sector intermediaries as well as the
presence of clear rules-of-the-game were maintained during the whole implementation period
and are still valid in the follow-up project.

Nevertheless, the preparation and design of the project had some weaknesses.
Project preparation was long and costly, the downside of preparing an innovative project.
Project preparation was under the National Planning Directory -DNP but implementation was
under MADR, resulting in implementation difficulties. For example, MADR had problems
finding office space for the project team. Moreover, the initial design was over-dimensioned for
three reasons. First, MADR did not have the budget for such a large project. Second, a US$52
million project was a sizeable and risky undertaking considering that it was a first experience
with productive partnerships in Colombia. Third, the time to process, structure and establish
productive partnerships under the complex procedures required by the loan agreement and
operational manual was underestimated. The large scope and depth of the environmental and
social studies (surveys7) required under the project design delayed project implementation at the
beginning, until unnecessary parts of these surveys were dropped8.

The design team adequately identified risks. The Government implemented most mitigation
measures so that potential risks did not materialize.




5TF 25829 (US$ 419,000 equivalent) and TF29532 (US$734,500) equivalent
6PPF P2821 (US$320,000) and P2820 (US$1.5 million)
7Because of the requirements under the Incentivo Modular Decree the social studies include an economic "means
test" of each beneficiary in order to make sure that the beneficiary families comply with the Decree.
8During implementation GCP simplified those studies, focusing the environmental studies on assessing and
mitigating adverse environmental impact. It also drastically reduced the scope of the social surveys by eliminating a
wide range of income-related questions that provided unreliable answers.

                                                 - 8 -



2.2 Implementation

The following key factors have influenced project implementation:

External factors: Colombia has a thriving private entrepreneurial sector, very active in the rural
areas. As a decentralized country, it has local institutional capacity in the Secretariats of
Agriculture and other institutions that assist rural communities. Moreover, it has great
agricultural potential and a dynamic, hard-working farming community. These are the main
factors that have positively influenced implementation.

Macro-economic stability and diminishing rural violence also had a positive impact. Only two
partnerships were dropped for security reasons.

Overall, the external economic environment remains a critical factor for the success or failure of
the partnerships. Favorable domestic agricultural prices in 2007/8 helped partnerships in the
traditional agricultural value chains (food crops, grains). However, partnerships linked to the
export market suffered from the steadily appreciating value of the local currency (until the
middle of 2008). Several commercial partners had to give up exporting.

It is often the case that small holders have trouble obtaining credit from the financial sector.
Thus, the Government introduced the matching grant scheme to help overcome market failures
of the rural financial sector. Nevertheless, producers were also encouraged to obtain
complementary financing from the financial sector. This only materialized in a few cases. The
main reason is that banks do not consider producer organizations as credit worthy. Micro-credit
schemes were not a solution given that they are mostly catering to the urban market.

Internal project evaluations concluded that, in general, the private sector prefers to deal with
larger producers to keep transaction costs low and reduce risks. They participate, however, in
small producer schemes for three main reasons: (i) as a social responsibility of the company; (ii)
to gain preferential access to primary produce where produce is scarce; and (iii) to diversify their
procurement sources. In addition to buying the produce, a little more than half of the
commercial partners contributed to the partnerships with technical assistance, either for
production or for post-harvest. Some provided inputs (seeds in particular) and in rare cases,
transport and collection services. There are also a few cases of purchaser credit.

Internal factors that positively influenced implementation were:

         (i)    The high professional quality of the GCP staff and in particular the management
skills and style of the project coordinator; MADR mostly followed competitive procedures to
attract the best individuals into the GCP;
         (ii)   MADR respected the rules of the game throughout the life of the project. MADR
outlined the rules in a publicized operational manual for the establishment and implementation of
productive partnerships. MADR's adherence to competitive procedures and the seriousness of
the consecutive MADR Ministers to apply the rules protected the project from political
influences in grant allocation. As a result, the project gained a high level of credibility and
respect in rural areas;

                                                         - 9 -


         (iii)     GCP was willing to learn from experience and to integrate the lessons into project
implementation. This provided much needed flexibility and adaptability;
         (iv)      MADR and GCP readily delegated productive partnership preparation and
supervision to the private sector (NGO, organizations, private firms), contracted on a competitive
basis. Private sector organizations developed the skills to manage this type of operations at the
Departmental level and are now involved in the management of the follow-up project in a
decentralized manner;
         (v)       good relationships between the Bank project supervision team and the GCP
prevailed throughout project implementation. This encouraged creativity and experimentation
with new approaches on the part of the GCP9; the Bank team provided technical assistance and
advice as well as the necessary checks and balances to ensure that project implementation
focused on results. The Colombian GCP team members provided consulting services to other
Bank projects in Guatemala, Panama, Peru, Vietnam and Angola.
         (vi)      the use of a Trust Company to disburse funds to producer organizations and to
control their use in common Trust Accounts benefited the credibility of the grant process. Trust
Companies are third and independent parties in business relationships that facilitate trust between
the partners regarding financial matters, reducing the possibilities of financial mismanagement
and ensuring compliance with competitive procurement procedures. However producers
(individuals or their organizations) had to complete numerous formal requirements before funds
could be disbursed by the Trust Company10 which delayed disbursements. In the follow-up
project, some causes of the delays11 have been resolved; and
         (vii)     an overload of bureaucratic requirements (in particular for money transfers) and
weak capacity to carry-out pre-investment studies plagued the project during the first few years.
With experience, GCP's hard work and willingness to show flexibility from all sides helped
resolved the main bottlenecks.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring: The introduction of a unified project monitoring system including an integrated
information system has been a slow process. GCP staff monitored the project in several ways
over the project implementation period. Although monitoring information was available, it was
not always available in a timely fashion or in the format that was useful for monitoring purposes.
Thanks to the recruitment of a qualified monitoring specialist in 2005, a monitoring system was
established, which has been operating adequately since March 2007. Partnerships and technical




9By mid-term review several pilot operations were introduced, such as: (i) decentralization of decision-making; (ii)
support to Departments to manage their own productive partnerships scheme; (iii) private sector identified
partnerships; (iv) involvement of medium-sized producers; and (v) GCP providing technical assistance (not funds)
to some partnerships. Only operations (i) and (ii) have been successful.
10 The use of a Trust Company and Trust Accounts to manage the grants to the farmer organizations has been
subject to several evaluations with the project beneficiaries and intermediaries. In spite of the 6-8 months delays to
comply with the legal requirements, the unanimous opinion was not to change the system. The Trust Company
provided much needed credibility to Government operations in the rural areas.
11 One principal cause of delay was the need to have an individual insurance policy for each beneficiary. This
policy was to protect government funds transferred to the private sector against misuse. A framework insurance
policy covering all beneficiaries and their organizations is being initiated.

                                                     - 10 -


assistance providers supply the information from the field. The system continues to be enhanced
under the follow-up project.

Evaluation. GCP contracted three independent external impact evaluations from the third project
year onwards. It also carried out some internal evaluations and studies of more limited scope.
The impact evaluations were confronted with many challenges. The partnership pre-investment
surveys and studies did not provide reliable baseline data on income, employment and
productivity. Moreover, those data were not collected in a format useful for impact evaluation
purposes and could not be used. But the biggest challenge was the identification and selection of
valid control groups.

The impact evaluation methodology used for the first cohort of eight partnerships was to
compare the income, employment and social cohesion between beneficiaries and control groups
of neighboring famers. For several reasons (type and age of the partnerships, perennial and
short-term crops, and inadequate control groups), the evaluation study could not demonstrate that
the project had any impact on income and employment. As a result, the task team downgraded
the Development Objective (DO) rating of the project to Moderately Satisfactory.

The second impact evaluation of five partnerships12 tried to recreate the baseline and measure the
impact at the survey stage and at a later stage. The recreation of the double difference
methodology required research (through interviews) of numerous families and members of
control groups, avoiding control groups influenced by possible spillover effects. The results
were considerably more promising and the task team upgraded the DO rating.

For lack of budget, the third impact evaluation analyzed a third cohort of seven partnerships with
the methodology used to analyze the first cohort but including neighboring and far-off located
control groups. The evaluation showed a more significant impact on income and employment.

A summary of the final impact evaluation is in Annex 9.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The safeguard policies that applied to the project were: (i) environmental assessment and (ii) pest
management. The project has carried out environmental analyses of each individual partnership
and each partnership has an environmental plan (including an integrated pest management plan ­
IPM - if applicable) with a specific budget. OGR and OGA monitored the implementation of
these plans in the field. This monitoring has not always been fully satisfactory. A Government
internal evaluation of the compliance with the environmental management plans indicates that 60
percent of the partnerships fully complied with the plans, 30 percent complied in an acceptable
way and 10 percent did not comply13. MADR will make a more significant monitoring effort in
the follow-up project using environmental specialists in every OGR in charge of monitoring the
implementation of the specific environmental management plans.



12The sample was limited to five because of the high cost of this methodology.
13MADR, Apoyo a Alianzas Productivas, Informe Final de Gestión Septiembre de 2008, Anexo 3

                                                   - 11 -


The ex-post procurement reviews have not identified significant procurement issues.

The financial management system has in the early stage of the project suffered from software-
related problems that delayed the introduction of disbursements through the three-monthly
Financial Management Report system. The final FM is rated moderately satisfactory: at project
closing substantial amounts of funds were in trust accounts (Patrimonios Autónomos) managed
by the Trust Company on behalf of producer organizations. These funds were still to be
disbursed because a large number of partnerships came on board in 2006/7. Some were still in
the implementation (disbursement) stage at the date of project closing. The Government
provided evidence that the funds in the trust accounts are government funds, not loan funds.

The substantial build-up of funds in trust accounts or at the Trust Company at the end of the
calendar year is difficult to avoid as disbursements are influenced by the Colombian fiscal
budget cycle (spend it or lose it principle). Another reason is that the grant agreement (incentivo
modular) between the Trust Company and the producer organizations (POs) requires that all the
funds needed for implementing the partnership be disbursed into the trust accounts prior to the
beginning of the implementation, to ensure that funds are available before the POs commit those
funds.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

In December 13, 2007, the Government of Colombia and the World Bank signed a loan14
agreement of US$30 million for a second Rural Productive Partnerships Project. This project
will also carry out further monitoring of ongoing partnerships and finance additional technical
assistance to help some of the existing partnerships expand their business.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives of increasing rural income, employment and promoting social cohesion
remain at the top of the country's priorities and continue to be highly relevant. The Colombia
2006-2010 Development Plan and the MADR Agro-Ingreso Seguro Program include as
priorities: increasing rural income and employment and enhancing agricultural competitiveness
(insertion into international markets and expansion of the internal market). This project and its
follow-up operation closely support these objectives. The same objectives are also part of the
Bank's 2008-2011 Country Partnerships Strategy, which aims, amongst other priorities, at equity
and sustainable growth through agro-competitiveness and environmental sustainability.15

The design of the project has gained in relevance over time: other programs in Colombia (such as
the USAID financed MIDAS program) and initiatives by the Departmental Secretariats of
Agriculture are using the same or similar methodologies. The project's general objective of
linking farmers to markets was widely adopted in the policies of the Departmental Governments


14Loan Number 7484
15Colombia CPS, April 9, 2008 paragraph 32, Table 3.

                                                - 12 -


and Secretariats of Agriculture. The central MADR, however, is focusing on the AIS (Agro-
Ingreso-Seguro) Program, a stimulus package for the agricultural sector.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The Project achieved its objectives of generating income, creating employment and promoting
social cohesion of poor rural communities in an economic and environmentally sustainable
manner, whether ones uses the original targets or the ones revised at mid-term review.

To evaluate the degree to which the project achieved its objectives, there are three main sources
of information: (i) the final financial and economic analysis of the project; (ii) the independent
impact evaluation studies; and (iii) the beneficiary assessment.

The economic and financial analysis (see 3.3) shows positive project impact on income and
employment with a high degree of variability. The analysis estimates the additional average cash
intake of a family, including the reimbursement of the grant, between 1.0 and 1.7 times the
annual minimum salary. With respect to the without-project level, the incremental net income is
77% at present and projected to be 6.4 times in 3-4 years. Moreover, it estimates the impact on
employment between 0.8 and 0.9 additional employments per family. This is 70-90 percent
increase with respect to the without project situation.

Independent impact evaluation studies by the firm "Econometría, Consultores" carried out
during project implementation and based on extensive data collection and in-depth analysis on
about 17 partnerships show that average income of smallholders involved in partnership
increased between 12 and 32 percent. Employment increased between 5 and 50 percent. The
results vary greatly depending on the partnership. Methodological issues however cast doubt on
the robustness of some quantitative conclusions of the impact evaluation and it appears that the
economic and financial analysis results are more reliable. However, the latter does not include a
double difference method, but only compare the situation before and after the project.
.

The social partnership index (IAPA) introduced at mid-term review to measure the adoption of
the partnership principles (mutual trust, degree of cohesion and participation), was below
expectations at the time of the final evaluation. The explanation is that adoption of partnership
principles takes time and that the bulk of the partnerships are still very recent. The main factors
of the low IAPA index are the lack of mutual trust between producers and the commercial sector
as well as the lack of direct contacts between the majority of the producers and the commercial
partner. Nevertheless, participants declare that the project increased their personal safety and
feeling of security.

The beneficiary assessment (See Annex 3.6) is also very positive about the project outcomes, but
does not provide quantitative data.

The results of these studies should be treated with caution and are to some extent preliminary.
Both studies indicate substantial increases in income and employment with important variations.
The magnitudes, however, vary because of the choice of the sample (different type of products
and partnerships) and the methodologies used. In addition, the bulk of the partnerships began

                                                     - 13 -


operating in 2005 or later. They only had a relatively short lifespan to show sustainability. The
age of the partnerships does matter as profitability matures over time. International business
experience shows much higher dropout rates than the 13 percent in this project. However, even
if a partnership fails, the impact on production, income and marketing may still be significant:
producer organizations will have gained experience in dealing with commercial partners and
should be able to identify and negotiate with other commercial partners. The indicators do not
reflect the experience gained.

Finally, the values of the indicator targets are somewhat arbitrary. During project design, the
preparation team had no references to similar experiences elsewhere and could not base target
values on statistical information from other projects.

Table 1: PDO Indicators

The following table contains an assessment in how far the project has reached its objectives.

Original Indicators              Degree of achievement     Revised Indicators      Degree of achievement
Producers participating in       Economic and financial    At the end of a         Same comment as
productive partnerships increase analysis of a sample of   partnership cycle at    original indicator
their income by 20% compared     23 partnerships 9out      least 70 percent of the
to the baseline                  of 136) indicates that    producers participating
                                 average incomes           in productive
                                 increased by 77%.         partnerships have
                                                           increased their income
                                                           by 10 percent compared
                                                           to the baseline of each
                                                           partnership
By the end of the first          Study of a sample of 23
subproject year, small           partnerships (out of
producers have increased their   136) indicates that
income by two monthly            average family annual
minimum salaries (US$ 394)       net income increased by
                                 US$280 while the
                                 annual cash intake is
                                 US$2,504
An increase of 50 percent in     Economic and financial    At the end of the       Same comment as
employment in the participating  analysis mentioned        project, employment in  original indicator
production units of which 40     above indicates that      at least 70 percent of
percent is employment for        employment increased      the partnerships will
women                            by about 0.8 person-      have increased by 10
                                 years per family, a 70    percent
                                 percent increase. 15%
                                 of the partnerships are
                                 with women household
                                 heads, However, no
                                 data were collected on
                                 overall women
                                 employment.


Agricultural productivity in     No productivity
production units increased on    increases measured.
average by 20 percent            Economic and financial

                                                       - 14 -


compared to regional indicators  analysis as well as
                                 beneficiary assessment
                                 indicates significant
                                 productivity increases
                                                             At the end of the        Social impact analysis
                                                             project at least 70      shows that 35 percent of
                                                             percent of the producer  partnerships reached an
                                                             associations will have   adequate IAPA index.
                                                             attained an adequate     Partnerships will need
                                                             social partnerships      time to build trust
                                                             index (IAPA)             Nevertheless, beneficiary
                                                             measuring cohesion and   assessment indicates
                                                             partnership principles   important social
                                                                                      achievements
                                                             Five regional            5 regional NGOs (OGR)
                                                             management               comply and 64 local
                                                             organizations (NGOs)     NGOs (OGA) comply.
                                                             have the capacity to     They are now engaged in
                                                             structure and follow-up  the implementation of the
                                                             productive partnerships; follow-up project
                                                             and 10 NGOs are
                                                             specialized and capable
                                                             of monitoring and
                                                             assisting producer
                                                             organizations involved
                                                             in productive
                                                             partnerships
100 productive partnerships are  136 partnerships are
formalized, consolidated are     formalized and 118 are
operating in a sustainable       operating in a
manner and contain conflict      sustainable manner
resolution schemes

100 productive partnerships      Only 2 partnerships
reimburse their commercial       took bank credit and
bank credit (if any) on time and credit recovery is not
at a recovery rate of 90% or     yet due.
more
Productive partnerships present  The average financial
an internal rate of return of 15 internal rate of return is
percent                          23 percent with
                                 important variations
Project monitoring and           Properly operating and
evaluation system properly       regularly updated since
operating and updated            March 2007

3.3 Efficiency

For the final evaluation, 23 productive partnerships were randomly selected from predefined
strata. Data were obtained in field workshops of producer groups. Independent consultants
conducted workshops with farmer groups in line with a participatory methodology widely
applied and tested by the FAO Investment Center.

                                                        - 15 -


Results NPV and IRR: From the sample of analyzed partnerships, the average financial rate of
return (IRR) is estimated at 23 percent with important variations and the average economic IRR
is 25 percent. Sixty-nine percent of the partnerships could generate an economic IRR higher
than 12%; and 31 percent have an economic IRR lower than 12% ­only 13 percent have a
negative IRR. These returns could have been higher if rainfall had not been significantly below
average, negatively affecting productivity. They could also be higher if input prices had not
reached record level highs in 2008.

If investment costs include project management and pre-investment support, and when net
benefits are reduced to take into account the productive partnerships that are still operational16,
the average incremental financial Net Present Value (NPV) would be US$ 3,009/family and the
financial IRR would be 19%.

Similarly, the average incremental economic NPV17 would be US$ 3,767/family and the
economic IRR would be 20%.

The aggregated incremental project financial NPV would be US$ 35.2 million and the
aggregated economic NPV would be US$ 44.1 million.

Table 2: Net Present Value and Internal Rate of Return

                                                     Financial Flows      Economic Flows
                     Net Present Value              US$ 35.2 million US$ 44.1 million
                     Internal Rate of Return                19%               20%

From the analysis of partnerships with a financial IRR lower than 12%, the following lessons can
be drawn:
          partnership members are powerless against unexpected production cost increases
              (such as fertilizer costs). Though all partnerships face this situation, the impact
              differs according to the type of partnerships; input price increases may be reversed in
              2009, with the decline in oil prices;
          over-supply could be the cause of stagnant or decreasing market-wide product prices
              (faced by some partnerships); hence the importance of up-to-date market information;
          low partnership-specific product prices (faced by few partnerships) may reflect poor
              negotiations with private sector agents when partnerships were created. Some
              renegotiation may be necessary; and
          inadequate or incomplete investments (faced by few partnerships) reflect poor
              partnership project design and/or poor beneficiaries' capacity assessment. Closer
              technical quality control at entry is on order.

GCP analyzed the main reasons why 18 (13%) partnerships failed.18 There are as follows:




16 Up to now, 13 percent of the partnerships have failed.
17 This is the with-project situation minus the without-project situation

                                                        - 16 -


    Social cohesion issues (such as difficulties to cooperate within the producer organization
        played a role in 13 of the failed partnerships.
    Deficiencies in the technical assistance (OGA) to producer organization were important
        in eight cases.
    Commercial reasons (degradation of market conditions) were central in seven of the
        failed partnerships while shortfalls or lateness in financial contributions of partners were
        a factor in five cases.
    Deficiencies in the quality of the pre-investment studies and technical reasons
        contributed to respectively five and seven of the 18 failures.

As several factors intervened at the same time, it is difficult to pinpoint one specific reason in
each case. As in most business ventures, failure is an inherent risk. A 13 percent failure rate is a
rather low figure; though it could go up with time, with reference to other similar business
experiences internationally.

Incremental Income

The annual incremental net income (with-project minus without-project situation) is estimated at
US$ 280/family at present and is projected to be US$ 2,300/family within 3-4 years. This
incremental net income is 77% higher than the without-project level and could be 6.4 times
higher in 3-4 years.

The average family cash intake19 resulting from the partnership is estimated at about US$ 2,504
per family at present and is projected to be US$4,784/family in 3-4 years. This annual cash
intake is 1.0 time the minimum salary (2008)20 at present and 1.9 times in 3-4 years. If the
annual repayment of incentivo modular is subtracted, the average family cash intake in 3-4 years
would be 1.7 times the minimum salary during the five years of repayment. From the 23
analyzed partnerships: 26% would generate a future average annual cash intake per family larger
than two minimum salaries; 30% would generate a future cash intake per family from 1.0-2.0
minimum salaries; and 43% would generate a cash intake per family lower than the minimum
salary.

Employment

Productive partnerships are estimated to generate on average 0.8 person-years additional
employment per family at present. This represents a 70% increase with respect to the without-
project situation. This increase would be equivalent to 0.9 person - year per family in 3-4 years
(a 92 percent increase).

Sensitivity Analysis


18MADR, Apoyo a Alianzas Productivas - Informe Final de Gestión, Septiembre 2008, paragraph 3.4. The report
mentions that eight failed partnerships started before 2003 (including some of the pilot operations) when the
competitive selection process was still not in place.
19The cash intake is the annual net income + the cost of family labor + the opportunity cost of land
20US$197 per month.

                                                       - 17 -



The financial and economic IRR are robust. Strong appreciation of the exchange rate during the
project period had a negative impact on export commodity partnerships but a positive impact on
those partnerships that use imported inputs. The IRR however is sensitive to increases in input
costs such as was the case in 2007/2008. This has created difficulties for several partnerships.

Resource Allocation

The analysis shows an average total investment per family of US$ 7,259 in the sample of 23
partnerships. Infrastructure, equipment, plantations, genetic improvements and start-up inputs
represent 90% of total investment. Sources of funds were the producers (61%), the project grant
(24%) and other collaborates (15%). The project and other partners (including private sector)
funded the bulk of the technical assistance.

The total project contribution per family (including grant and technical assistance) in the sample
was US$ 2,255 or 90% of investment ceiling established at appraisal. The average contribution
in the 136 partnerships of the project was US$1,758 per family or 67 percent of the ceiling21.

Based on the amount of the grant per family, one may wonder whether the project can be up
scaled. The project grant could have been lower if complementary financing would have been
available from the rural finance institutions.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall satisfactory outcome rating is justified for three main reasons:
    (i)      The project objectives remain relevant in the context of the Government and sector
             strategies (paragraph 3.1).
    (ii)     The project development objectives, as measured by the original and revised
             indicators, were achieved by and large (paragraph 3.2). Through different methods of
             measurement (in-depth surveys, financial and economic analysis and beneficiary
             assessment), the project shows a significant impact on family income and
             employment. The project had powerful institution building results and spillover
             effects as well.
    (iii)    The project economic IRR as a measure of efficiency is about 20 percent including
             project management costs and pre-investment support (paragraph 3.3). This IRR
             return coincides with the IRR results of another study using a different methodology
             during preparation of the follow-up project.




21The difference can be explained by the fact that the age of the partnerships in the sample is higher than the
average age as the sample contained partnerships that had completed the investment cycle. GCP has progressively
reduced the grant amount per family for reasons of budget and efficiency.

                                                     - 18 -


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impact. Although this project was not a poverty alleviation project, the project intended
to address the needs of poor smallholders. The Incentivo Modular Decree requires selecting the
beneficiaries of each partnership through a social study. The assets and the income of the
beneficiaries could not exceed certain ceilings. The project targeted poor small holders in
compliance with the Decree. In order to build successful partnerships however, producers need
to have a minimum of assets, in particular minimum levels of education. A number of studies of
projects linking farmers to markets have proven this point and this project is no exception.

Gender Aspects. There are reliable data on the participation of women in the partnerships.
Some 1750 (15 percent of the) beneficiaries were women, heads of households. Other women
have of course also participated in the partnerships as household members.

Social Development. The project made special efforts to generate and implement partnerships in
areas where indigenous, Afro-Colombian and displaced people (special population groups) live.
These social groups had almost the same chances of access to the project resources as other
farmer groups (32 percent). Table 3 reflects the relationship of the project with special
population groups.

Table 3: Participation of Special Population Groups

Groups                                       Number of Partnerships      Percentage of success
                                         Proposed           Approved     approved/proposed
Small farmers                                277               90                32%
Afro-Colombian descendents                   29                9                 31%
Indigenous                                   21                6                 29%
Displaced population                         27                9                 33%
Demobilized population22                      2                1                 50%
Women heads of households                     4                1                 25%
Total                                        360              116                32%

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Although institutional strengthening was not part of the initial objectives, the project had a
significant impact on institution building in the rural areas, as described below.

Regional Management Organizations. To implement the project, MADR contracted Regional
Management Organizations (OGR) to prepare pre-investment studies and to supervise and assist
productive partnerships in the field. The OGR include regional private consulting firms, non-
governmental development organizations, educational institutions and regional chambers of
commerce. As the project evolved, GCP delegated more and more tasks to the OGRs. This
gradual delegation of authority and tasks strengthened their management capacity. Five of those



22Demobilized guerilla or other paramilitary personnel.

                                                   - 19 -


OGRs are now fully in charge of follow-up project implementation under MADR supervision.
They also manage similar programs financed by the Departmental Secretariats of Agriculture or
by external financing organizations.

Local Management Organizations. The project developed the management capacities of about 64
Local Management Organizations (OGA) providing technical assistance and guidance to the
partnerships in organizational, accounting, financial, technical, legal and social matters. This is
the result of the competitive contracting process. Many of these OGA assist producer groups
with the preparation of partnership proposals.23 Under the follow-up project, MADR is training
OGA in transferring managerial capacity to the producer organizations.

Producer Organization Strengthening. The project also succeeded in strengthening the
institutional capacity of the producer organizations; but less than it could or should have done.
At the onset of the project, GCP paid little attention to producer organization strengthening as it
focused on the establishment of the partnerships. By mid-term, it became obvious that without
producer organization strengthening, the project results would not be sustainable. GCP
instructed OGA to build the capacity of producer organizations and their managers through
intensive training and technical assistance. As a result, the follow-up project emphasizes much
more the capacity-building element in the producer organizations and one of the follow-up
project's PDO is to build up rural entrepreneurship within producer organizations.

More than 130 farmer associations are now undergoing further training and monitoring under the
follow-up project. Most of the new associations still struggle with internal organization and
management issues as shown by the relatively low social partnership index (IAPA) which
measures the mutual trust between partners, degree of cohesion and participation.

Secretariats of Agriculture. The project has been instrumental in strengthening the Departmental
SA involved in the identification and pre-selection of the partnerships. Some SA have leveraged
project funds to increase the scope of partnerships.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

A first unintended impact was the significant spillover effects of the partnerships to neighboring
producers. According to the external evaluation, some 75 percent of the neighboring farmers
declare to know the activities of the partnerships. Many of them replicate partnership-introduced
technologies in their fields. In some specific sectors such as blackberry production, the
replication by neighboring farmers created a glut in the market. The spillover effect is so
significant that the external impact evaluation team had to select control groups at distant
locations to measure economic impact of the partnerships.

A second unintended impact is that the project introduced a rural development intervention
model in Colombia that some Departments (such as in Riseralda) and other projects have



23The OGA preparing a partnership proposal does not necessarily assist with the implementation of the partnership:
OGA are selected competitively.

                                                     - 20 -


replicated. It developed operational manuals and strict competitive rules for grant financing and
financial control mechanisms. It also initiated and developed a culture of pre-investment studies
that was lacking in rural Colombia. The Colombian experience has been used as a model for
similar Bank projects such as in Vietnam, Honduras, Bolivia, Panama and Guatemala, as well as
a number of African countries.

A third impact has been socio-psychological. In rural areas struggling with guerilla or
paramilitary activity, the project brought central government support to the rural people,
resulting in an increased feeling of security.24

The project results did not lead to the formulation of an overall strategy for public support for
value chains. Because of the diversity of the partnerships and their regional spread, they have
not been able to influence agricultural support services (such as research or extension). The
MADR's Department of Value Chains was involved in the approval of the partnerships at the
central level. Unfortunately, the project operated under MADR's Rural Development
Department not the Department of Value Chains. This has limited the project's policy impact.

Contrary to the widespread risk common to matching grant financing, the project has very few
examples of producer organizations being formed with the single objective of capturing the
benefits of the project. The extensive pre-investment studies and surveys, the involvement of
local and departmental governments in the partnership selection process and as financing
partners, as well as the participation of the private sector, practically weeded out the possibilities
for grant capturing producer organizations.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A beneficiary survey of 297 people involved in 30 partnerships (producers, private sector,
government officials, and technical specialists) and a focus group discussion with 15 producers'
representatives was carried out for the purposes of this ICR. Amongst the persons surveyed, 60
belonged to partnerships that failed. The main results are presented below.

All survey participants consider that the producers have obtained significant benefits. More than
90 percent of the participants perceive that the program's process has contributed to
empowerment as well as to personal and associative development. Between 40 and 64 percent
see improvements in productivity, income and product quality. Those benefits seem to increase
over time. More than 60 percent perceives that the program contributed to improvements in
security. Sixty-seven percent perceive that the program had a positive impact on living
conditions.

Even the members of the partnerships that no longer operate consider that the productive
partnerships program provided them with many of the above benefits, an evidence of the
capacity-building outcome of the project, over and beyond the partnerships financed by the
project. If the whole process were to start over, 93 percent of the interviewees would again get
involved in partnerships; even 73 percent of the members of failed partnerships state they would


24Econometría, First External Evaluation Report, June 2005; See also Annex 8: Beneficiary Assessment

                                                - 21 -


be willing to repeat the experience. This shows how positive the participants are about the
partnerships model

The commercial partners consider the increase in production as a major benefit, not necessarily
the guarantee of a direct supply from organized producers.
The majority of the interviewees (69 percent) consider that both partners mutually benefit from
the partnership, but 17 percent think that the commercial partners benefit more.

All partnerships face constraints of a very diverse nature. One major constraint is security:
where the partnerships can overcome this constraint, they have a positive spillover effect on the
whole community. Where they cannot overcome this constraint, it often causes partnership
failure.

The sustainability of the partnerships depends largely on the operation of the producer
organizations. The interviewees perceive that there are positive results for the operation of the
organizations, teamwork and financing. Nevertheless, there is a worrying issue: not all the
organizations have been able to all recover the grants (incentivo modular) in a timely manner.

The education level of the producers, the pre-existence of a producer organization and training of
the producer organizations in managerial areas matter: they are each positively correlated with
partnership success.

.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: The risk to development outcomes is moderate.

The main risks are related to the overall economic climate. Partnerships are business
relationships that undergo the fluctuations of business cycles like any other business. The higher
agricultural prices forecasted over the medium term for most commodities would enhance the
financial and economic sustainability of the partnerships. The 2008 financial crisis also reduced
the appreciation of the Colombian currency, making export crops more profitable. It is also
likely that input prices will decline. Although the economic and financial analysis shows a
robust average IRR, the spread around the average is wide. This means that while many
partnerships can flourish, others may flounder. The 25/75 rule of venture capital experience may
also be applicable in this project: 25 percent of the partnerships obtain 75 percent of the returns.

To mitigate the above risks, the follow-up project keeps on monitoring and assisting the
activities of all partnerships, including the ones that were initiated under the first project, in case
some particular events would endanger their sustainability. Moreover, the training programs
provided under the follow-up project will also benefit the partnerships created under the first one.
This long-term follow-up is crucial for their sustainability. The responsibilities and costs of such
follow-up, however, should be born more evenly amongst local and regional institutions. In
addition, the follow-up project will look into other risk management instruments that might

                                                - 22 -


become available in the future such as weather risk insurance and the use of hedging and forward
contracting.

The security risks are diminishing. Most partnerships are no longer in areas controlled by
paramilitary of guerilla forces.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The project design was sound. The project had clear and
single coherent objectives. The design was highly innovative: the Bank had little or no
experience with this type of projects linking farmers to the private sector. Project preparation
integrated the experience of the pilot partnerships into a design and project structure that was
implemented without major changes, only simplifications. The project design was also very
relevant to the country circumstances and sector strategy at the time of preparation.
The initial design, however, had some deficiencies. As an experimental project, it was
financially over-dimensioned and the loan amount had to be reduced by 30 percent. The initial
design was also complex to implement. The quantitative targets of the PDO indicators were
somewhat arbitrary. The large scope of the environmental and social studies (surveys) required
under the initial operational manual, delayed project implementation at the beginning. This
resulted in a very slow start. It took several years to bring the project up to speed.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory.

The supervision team carried out on average two supervisions per year. There were also
procurement ex-post reviews and regular financial management reviews. The Bank team also
reviewed the environmental aspects to ensure fiduciary compliance.

The Bank supervision focused on: (i) ensuring efficiency in the creation of partnerships;
(ii) achieving development outcomes (income generation and employment creation),
sustainability of the partnerships and producer organizations, (iii) incorporating lessons learned
into the operations; and (iv) ensuring institutional development. Its reporting was candid: the
team reduced the PDO ratings to Moderately Satisfactory when the first external evaluation
could not show a statistically significant impact on income and employment. The PDO rating
remained Moderately Satisfactory until the next cohort of partnerships showed results that were
more positive.

Supervision missions visited the field and participated in workshops with the project team to
incorporate lessons learned into the operation. Bank staff attended annual conferences of the
partnerships to listen to the concerns of partnership participants. The task team helped to
improve the quality of the feasibility studies and assisted the project team to reduce the duration

                                                - 23 -


of partnership preparation. The supervision team emphasized simplification, encouraged more
decentralization and promoted pilot initiatives to explore new methodologies.

The close relationship between the Bank supervision team and the GCP helped to generate trust
and flexibility in the operation. It also generated trust with the higher management level in
MADR.

Nevertheless, considering the important changes in loan amount and the adjustments of the
impact indicator targets, the Bank should have done a formal project restructuring to keep the
Board informed.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory. While the Bank Performance Quality at Entry was only moderately
satisfactory, the Bank's quality of supervision largely compensated for the design deficiencies.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

The Government was fully committed to achieving the development objectives and the project
had the support of the consecutive Governments and the National Planning Department. The
project, however, was prepared with the National Planning Department while the main
counterpart during preparation should have been the Ministry of Agriculture, which was to
implement the project. The National Directorate of Planning (DNP) followed up on project
performance and sent a delegate to participate in the supervision missions. DNP had also regular
meetings with the Bank to discuss project implementation issues and overall development
impact. The Government contracted a new $30 million loan in December 2007 to ensure
continuity of the operation within the MADR.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

MADR strongly supported the project throughout. The Government organized annual
consultation meetings of all partnership actors to seek feedback on the project performance and
to generate ideas on implementation issues. From the start onwards, the Government recruited
high quality key staff through competitive processes and kept competent staff. Where possible,
it resolved all implementation issues in a timely manner. It complied with all fiduciary aspects
including financial management. There were no undue government pressures to approve specific
partnerships and the consecutive Ministers respected the rules of the game. Government
provided counterpart funding in accordance with project growth and performance and complied
with all legal covenants. GCP was a strong and highly committed team, excellent at
incorporating lessons learned into the project's operation. The introduction of the monitoring

                                                - 24 -


and evaluation arrangements, however, has been too slow. Another deficiency has been the lack
of a communications strategy positioning the project with the private sector, although there has
been an effort made to improve this at the end of the project. The project has still not developed
an adequate website.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory. As both Government and implementation agency performance are
satisfactory, the overall performance is satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned


General lessons


6.1.The project development objectives should be more closely related to project activities.
    Indicators should measure outcomes that can be directly attributable to the project.
    Such development objectives as increase income and employment should be kept as the
    "contribution of the project to higher level development objectives of the country ". Hence,
    the objectives of the second project are to increase competitiveness, entrepreneurship and
    sustainability of partnerships and producer associations. Such outcomes can be credited
    directly to the project.

6.2. Related to the above: Measuring the impact of such a project present methodological
    difficulties due to the difficulty with identifying valid control groups. Impact evaluation
    requires a rigorous double difference methodology (with/without, and before/after the
    project) to yield robust results. The "without-the-project" group has to have similar socio-
    economic and entrepreneurial characteristics as the ones of the with-project group and be
    involved in the same agricultural activity. Therefore, the control group needs to have
    characteristics such that it could have been selected by the project but was not, for reasons
    exogenous to the group. The project did not exclude any areas of the country, so one may
    not be able to identify such control group. In any case, under such circumstances, a robust
    impact evaluation requires skilled econometricians with a solid expertise in impact
    evaluation, and is quite costly.

6.3.Importance of well functioning sustainable producer organizations (PO) and of
    providing long-term follow-up and support. A well functioning producer organization is
    key to the success of the partnership. POs with a past track record for collaboration
    performed in general better than the newly established organizations, which have a steep and
    costly learning curve. Even existing POs present organizational and managerial weaknesses
    and have to deal with social cohesion issues, such as lack of trust among members and free-
    rider problems. Where new or not so strong POs are involved, the organization that
    accompany the POs should have a solid experience in assisting POs, in particular in the areas
    of management and conflict resolution, while avoiding that the POs become dependent on the
    OGA. This managerial assistance needs to be envisioned over the long term, at least up to
    two years.

                                                 - 25 -


    The project put insufficient quality enhancement effort into training and transfer of business
    skills. In some cases, the project assistance created some producer organizations'
    dependency on the provider. The follow-up project will finance technical assistance and
    training over a period of at least two years for each partnership. Transfer of management and
    organizational skills to partnership managers and members will be the focus of this assistance.
    Dependency symptoms will be closely monitored.

6.4.The private sector does not trust the public sector and is reluctant to engage with small
    holders because of the risks and high transaction costs involved. The private sector
    participates in the project: (i) for reasons of social responsibility; (ii) to get access to new
    productive areas they cannot reach without partnership; and (iii) to diversify their sources of
    supply. To be attractive to the private sector, the partnerships also need to reduce transaction
    costs. The presence of qualified and responsible local private OGA and OGR has
    contributed to building trust between small farmers and the private sector. In the follow-up
    project, more decentralized decision-making will also enhance trust. The requirement that
    partnerships need a manager and a simple accounting system will contribute to reducing
    transaction costs

6.5.Mobilizing credit from financial institutions is difficult at the beginning. Involving
    financial institutions is no doubt important to ensure sustainability and up-scaling. Though
    attempts were made at the beginning, the project did not succeed in involving the banks, for
    two main reasons: (i) the project design did not include features to attract credit; and (ii) the
    banks would want to have some evidence that the operations are financially viable and that
    they can trust the smallholders, new partners for them, before they commit their funds.
    Hence, building credit worthiness for the producers is a challenge, something to be achieved
    over time.

    . The involvement of the banks should be an objective to be achieved during the course of
    the second phase rather than during the first one, once producer organizations have a record
    of accomplishment built up during the project under review. The repayment of the grant into
    a revolving fund managed by the producer organizations is the beginning of building credit
    worthiness. The design of the follow-up project includes mechanisms that provide incentives
    for the producer organizations and those who formulate partnerships to obtain credit from
    financial institutions.


Other lessons

6.6.The partnerships preparation and implementation cycle has proven to be long, complex
    and costly in terms of transaction costs. As a remedy, the follow-up project introduced
    time saving measures such as a framework insurance policy covering all future partnerships.
    It delegates more responsibility to the regional level and to the partners for the pre-
    investment studies and partnership structuring, shortening the preparation cycle. The results,
    up to the time of this ICR preparation are encouraging. Although identifying skilled people
    to prepare partnership feasibility studies remains a challenge

                                                     - 26 -


6.7.A competitive technical selection and approval process based on publicized criteria and
    strict adherence to the "rules of the game" are crucial for projects that finance
    subprojects through grants. Compliance with those rules gave a high level of credibility
    and integrity to the project in rural areas as well as in political circles. It also strongly
    reduced political involvement in the decision-making process.

6.8.A high quality of the partnership feasibility studies ensures a greater probability of
    their success and sustainability. Poor feasibility studies usually result in delays and other
    problems (often requiring restructuring) during implementation. The gradual reduction in the
    complexity of the studies while focusing on the essentials and particularly on risks
    diminished implementation delays and eliminated non-viable partnerships from the onset.

6.9.Projects of this nature need to build local institutional and management capacity. This
    type of projects is very management intensive. To avoid the creation of a parallel project
    bureaucracy, MADR delegated many tasks to the private sector (NGOs and consulting firms).
    Although this paid off in the end, the lack of capable organizations and skilled personnel at
    the sub-national level at the start of the project was a major implementation constraint for
    several years.

6.10. To address the "poor" small farmers, the partnerships should focus on annual crops
    that do not require much investment. Perennial crops that require some medium-term
    investment are not very suitable for poor farmers, as they do not have the financial capacity
    to maintain those crops over the years before seeing the financial results25.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower made comments on two drafts of the ICR. The comments are included into the
final ICR document.

(b) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

The beneficiary assessment comments are in Section 3.6 and Annex 5.




25There have been several attempts to mix perennial crops with annual crops. Not many have succeeded, as this
requires also a commitment from other commercial partners to purchase those annual crops. Moreover, the soils
may not be adequate for annual crops.

                                               - 27 -



Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                           Actual/Latest
            Components               Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
                                      (USD millions)     Estimate (USD
                                                            millions)            Appraisal

1. PREPARATION OF
PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIP                       6.10                3.1               50%
SUBPROJECTS
 2. IMPLEMENTATION OF
PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIP                      40.10               20.6               51%
SUBPROJECTS
3. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                        4.40                4.6              105%


               Total Baseline Cost          50.60               28.30              56%

Physical Contingencies                       0.41                0.00              N/A

Price Contingencies                          0.99                0.00              N/A
                Total Project Costs         52.00               28.30              54%
PPF                                          0.00                1.82              N/A
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.32                0.32             100%
                  Total Financing           52.32               30.44              58%




(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal    Actual/Latest
            Source of Funds               Type of                                 Percentage of
                                        Cofinancing     Estimate      Estimate
                                                      (USD millions)(USD millions) Appraisal

Borrower                                                 20.32           8.44         46%
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                          32.00          22.00         69%

                                                 - 28 -


Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Preparation of Productive Partnerships

The preparation of productive partnerships consists of: (i) information campaigns on the project
with invitations to submit proposals (profiles) for partnerships; (ii) evaluation and selection of
the best proposals; (iii) feasibility studies and structuring of the partnerships; and (iv) approval
process and partnership agreement signature plus legal documentation.

This component has the following outputs:

Table 1: Project Outputs

                                                             Planned     Actual    % Actual/
                                                                                   Planned
Number of invitations launched                                      n/a        7
Expressions of interest received                                   500       852        170%
 Of which from special groups                                       50       125        146%
Number of proposals received                                       300       342        114%
 Of which from special groups                                       30        83        227%
Number of proposals selected                                       225       177         79%
Number of feasibility studies finalized                            150       177        118%
Number of partnerships approved by CI and signed                   100       136        136%
Number of beneficiaries                                        10,000 11,714            117%
 Of which women heads of households                              1,000     1,750        175%
Number of employment to be created                                  n/a 10,000
Amount of modular incentive allocated in agreements                 n/a     19.7
(US$ million)
n/a = non applicable or not available

Component 2: Implementation of the partnerships

The second component consists of the implementation of the partnerships: (i) implementation of
the business plan including the environmental and social plans; (ii) disbursement of the modular
incentive (grant) to the trust accounts and expenditures of the accounts; (iii) technical assistance
by OGA; and (iv) monitoring by OGR;

Table 2: Implementation of Partnerships

                                                   2002  2003   2004   2005  2006   2007   2008   Total
Number of partnerships completing the full            3     4      10     8    20     35      56     136
disbursement cycle
Total disbursements of the modular incentive         1.0   1.6    1.3    1.8   3.7   5.0      5.3    19.7
(US$ million)
Number of partnerships declared unsuccessful                1      5      3     3      2       3       18
Number of OGA contracted                                     8     17    19    37     43      23     147
Number of OGR under contract                                0       3     5     6      9        9       9

                                                    - 29 -



Table 3: Partnerships per product

                            Partnerships        Hectares
        Product
                        No.          %        No.       %

COCOA                       16          12%    3.572    14%

BLACKBERRY                  13          10%      895     4%

MILK                        9            7%     135      1%

NATURAL FIBERS              7            5%      778     3%

PLANTAIN                    6            4%    1.406     6%

CHILI PEPPER                5            4%      517     2%

COFFEE                      5            4%    1.009     4%

PALM OIL                    5            4%    2.682    11%

TILAPIA FISH                5            4%     250      1%

HONEY                       4            3%        0     0%

MANIOC                      4            3%    1.996     8%

RUBBER                      4            3%      818     3%

BEANS                       3            2%      408     2%

CORN                        3            2%    1.950     8%

GMELINA FRUIT               3            2%    1.380     6%

PASSION FRUIT               3            2%      156     1%

SUGAR CANE                  3            2%      436     2%

VEGETABLES                  3            2%      110     0%

ARTISANAL FISHING           2            1%        0     0%

MANGO FRUIT                 2            1%      256     1%

ONION                       2            1%       82     0%

POTATOES                    2            1%      113     0%

SHEEP                       2            1%        0     0%

SHRIMP AQUACULTURE          2            1%       33     0%

STRAWBERRIES                2            1%       33     0%

OTHERS                      21          15%    5.731    23%

TOTAL                     136          100%   24.745   100%


Table 4 (a,b and c): Results per category of production

                                          Crops    Livestock  Aquaculture  Forestry  Total
Number or partnerships                       104           19           10         3   136
Families involved                          9.204        1.707         632       171  11.714
Hectares                                   18.647       4.435         283     1.380  24.745
Total Investments (US$ Millions)            60,3         12,0          4,4       1,3   77,9
Government Grant (US$ Millions)             14,9          3,2          1,2       0,4   19,7

                                                           - 30 -



                                                                 Crops
                                                                                           Total
                                                      Permanent           Annual
Number or partnerships                                           62                  42         104
Families involved                                             6.063               3.141       9.204
Hectares                                                     10.923               7.724     18.647
Total Investments (US$ Millions)                               39,3                21,0        60,3
Government Grant (US$ Millions)                                 9,8                 5,2        14,9


                                                                    Livestock
                                                                                                     Total
                                          Beef           Pork    Sheep      Poultry    Dairy  Honey

Number or partnerships                            1           1         2           2      9       4    19
Families involved                             180          141       112          153    733     388 1.707
Hectares                                    4.300             0         0           0    135       0 4.435
Total Investments (US$ Millions)               1,5          1,8      1,0          0,9    5,5     1,2    12
Government incentive (US$ Millions)            0,4          0,3      0,3          0,3    1,6     0,4   3.0


Private sector involvement

There are 108 private commercial partners for the 118 partnerships still in operation. Most
partnerships work with the only one commercial partner, while 32 partnerships work with more
than one partner. Only 17 partnerships changed partners over time. Two POs did not find
another commercial partner and closed their operation.

Fifty-six percent of the commercial partners are large operators in Colombia, 35 percent are
medium firms and 9 percent are small firms. Fifty-six percent of the partnerships sell to agro-
processors (chocolate manufacturers, fruit juices, milk processors, oil extraction, coffee
processors, rubber manufacturers), 32 percent sell to wholesalers and exporters, 7 percent to
supermarkets and 5 percent to specialized retailers.

                                              Commercial Partner Category




                                              Retailers, 5%

                                     Supermarkets 7%




                                  Wholesale/Export
                                                                     Processors 56%
                                       32%




Seventy-eight percent of the partnerships cater exclusively for the domestic market, while 30
percent export or have the potential to export. Of the total production, 63 percent is primary
produce used in industrial processes and 36 percent is for the fresh market. One percent is
production of seeds.

                                                         - 31 -



                                           Product Destination

                          Agro-processing
                                63%




                                                    Seeds 1%          Fresh product market
                                                                                36%




Of the 118 partnerships in operation, 82 partnership agreements have become effective. The
other 36 have been signed but are not effective yet, awaiting the first harvest or production.

About half of the private sector partners contributed to the partnerships beyond buying produce.
The most common contribution is technical assistance, although there are some cases of working
capital, purchaser credit, inputs, transport and tools or equipment

Table 5: Commercial partners' contribution

 Type of participation of the commercial partner          Number of      % in relation to    % in relation to
                                                         partnerships     partnerships in     the "active"
                                                                         operation (118)      commercial
                                                                                              partners (57)
1. Technical assistance in production.                        25                   21              41
2. Post harvest assistance and logistical support.            38                   32              62
3. Working capital .                                          7                     6              11
4. Infrastructure support.                                    8                     7              13
5. Transport                                                  3                     3               5
6. Seeds and inputs.                                          14                   12              23
7. Tools or equipment                                         15                   13              25
8. Support to the strengthening of the producer               30                   25              49
organization
9. Credit or assistance with obtaining credit.                7                     6              11
10. Grants or activities not related to the                   4                     3               7
partnership

Technical assistance came in the form of workshops, demonstrations and visits to the pre-
processing plants. Some firms provided purchaser credit to farmers (for example, in the cocoa
and sisal sector. Milk processors provided cooling tanks; others equipped the produce collection
center with tools and equipment (scales, storage equipment) or provided packing materials for
fresh produce. The provision of seeds was a common contribution, as the commercial partners
wanted the farmers to plant the right varieties. Some firms assisted the producer organizations
with their internal management and produce marketing. In some cases, the commercial partner
provided credit or helped the producer organization to obtain additional credit. One firm
provided social benefits to the farmers (school supplies for the children, for instance).

                                                - 32 -



Reimbursement of the Grant into the Producer Organization Revolving Fund

Producer organization (PO) members have to reimburse the grant into a revolving fund that
belongs to the PO. Where the PO uses grant reimbursements to purchase inputs for the next
production season, the members quite readily reimburse the grant. When it is not the case, the
reimbursements are behind schedule (whenever reimbursements are already due). PO members
also do not always want to reimburse the cost of the OGA and technical assistance, as they
consider it is the role of the Government to provide such assistance free.
.
Component 3. Project Management

The Project Coordination Group (GCP) consists of a project manager, an economist/ financial
analyst, an agribusiness specialist, a social specialist, an environmental specialist, a monitoring
and evaluation specialist, an accountant, an administrator and three logistical support staff. Staff
turnover has been minimal.

The agencies in charge of procurement and fund administration have been: OEI (Organización
de Estados Iberoamericanos) and IICA (Instituto Interamericano para la Cooperación en
Agricultura)

The Trust Companies in charge of the management of the modular incentive over the whole
project period have been: FIDUBOGOTA and FIDUCOLDEX

The external evaluation was done by Econometría Consultores, Bogotá, Colombia
The annual external auditor was: MGI Páez y Asociados, Bogotá, Colombia

                                                   - 33 -


Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Methodology and conceptual framework

   1. Twenty-three productive partnerships were randomly selected from predefined strata.
      The sample was obtained from a universe of 106 partnerships which had completed
      implementation of at least 50% of funds received, had at least one year of first
      disbursement by September 2008 and were still operational. The selected partnerships
      were analyzed for their financial and economic performance to date (with-project
      situation) and likely performance in future years (future with-project situation).
      Estimates were also obtained for a without-project situation at current prices. Finally,
      incremental benefits and costs (with-project minus without-project costs and benefits)
      were estimated.

   2. Data were obtained in field workshops bringing together producer groups conducted by
      independent consultants in line with a participatory methodology widely applied and
      tested by the Investment Center of FAO26. Field workshops were conducted for 22 of the
      23 selected partnerships. Due to access problems, information from one partnership was
      obtained from the producers' coordinator by telephone.

   3. During field workshops, participants evaluated their crops and activities, by constructing
      average situations (per ha, per farm, per plant, etc.) for each activity or crop. Three
      scenarios were constructed: current results with the partnership (with-project situation);
      likely future results with the partnership once production capacity stabilizes (future 3-4
      years with-project situation); and likely results if partnership investments and support
      would not have been received (without-project situation). Total investment costs and
      annual reserve for future replacement of equipment were also estimated, together with
      capacity to cover average annual repayment of the grant (incentivo modular).

   4. Due to the relatively small selection universe, the results obtained from this analysis
      provide estimations of feasibility at the aggregate level only.

   5. Estimated benefits were essentially sales revenues. Recurrent or operational costs
      include inputs and services, labor costs (including opportunity cost of family labor) at
      market prices. For the analysis of the with-project situation, the opportunity cost of land
      (estimated using the cost that the producer would have incurred if s/he had to rent the
      land) was also included. Investment costs include grants (incentivo modular), technical
      assistance, contributions from other parties (public and private partners) and producers'
      own capital for investment items and initial working capital. The annual discount rate to
      estimate Net Prevent Values (NPV) was 12% both for financial and economic analysis.
      The evaluation period of projected flows was 20 years or less if the life of supported
      investments of productive partnerships was lower. Exchange rate was set at
      Co$/US$ 2,213 for the analysis.



26FAO Investment Centre. Rural Invest: Module 2. http://www.fao.org/tc/tci/ruralinvest_en.asp

                                             - 34 -



  6. Economic prices were calculated for investment and input items subject to value-added
      tax (VAT), namely: animal feeds, seedlings, machinery and equipment. Since current
      VAT rate is 10%, conversion factor used was 0.91. Similarly, the opportunity cost of
      labor was estimated applying a conversion factor of 0.92. This factor results from
      applying market wages to employed rural population and zero to unemployed rural
      population (estimated in 8.6% in 2008). For all other items, financial or market prices are
      very close to economic values.

  7. Finally, a sensitivity analysis of financial and economic results was conducted on several
      factors. The main ones were the exchange rate fluctuations and the input costs.


Economic and Financial Results

  8. The summary table shows the results of the 23 analyzed productive partnerships in 2008
      prices. These data are based on tables 1, 2, 3 and 4 further in the text.

Economic and Financial Results at the Partnerships Level

                        Financial NPV     Financial IRR    Economic NPV per    Economic
                        per family (US$)                   family (US$)        IRR
   With Project                4,600               23%              5,760           25%
   Situation
   Incremental Flows           4,808               23%              5,580           25%



  9. The financial IRR, estimated in ex-ante feasibility studies of selected partnerships, fall
      within the range estimated in the analysis; but the specific values for each partnership
      vary from a few percentage points, as in the case of palm oil production, to several times
      their value.

  10. With Project: From the 23 analyzed partnerships: 61% generated a with-project
      economic IRR higher than 12%; and 39% an economic IRR lower than 12%. Only 9%
      had a negative economic IRR.

  11. Incremental Flows: 69% of partnerships generated an economic IRR higher than 12%;
      and 31% an economic IRR lower than 12%. Only 13% had a negative economic IRR.
      These returns could be higher in the future with normal rainfall conditions and improved
      technical & marketing support would improve. In 2008, rainfall was significantly higher
      than average, affecting productivity of annual and perennial crops.

                                                            - 35 -


Graph 1: Distribution of IRR over sample partnerships


                 8


                 7


                 6
   pshis         5


        nert     4


            par  3
               #
                 2


                 1


                 0
                      1       2       3        4        5        6        7       8

                                                 IRR

                     Legend. 1: IRR<=0; 2: 0<IRR<10; 3: 10<IRR<20; 4: 20<IRR<30; 5:
                         30<IRR< 50; 6: 50<IRR<70; 7: 70<IRR<100; 8: IRR>100



   12. The productive partnerships with lower IRR estimates were: cocoa (one case);
                 mushrooms, blackberry, poultry, stevia and improved artisanal fishing. Significant
                 production cost increases, while sales were stagnating, affected all these partnerships.

   13. Some lessons can be drawn from these less performing partnerships.

                 a. Partnerships members are powerless against unexpected production cost increases
                     (faced by all partnerships). There is hope that relative input prices adjust with recent
                     downward pressures on fuel prices and associated inputs;
                 b. Over-supply causes stagnant or decreasing market-wide product prices (faced by
                     some partnerships). Market studies and market information can avoid over
                     investments in such products. Market promotion may be useful for relatively new
                     products (case of orellana-mushrooms);
                 c. Low specific product prices (faced by two partnerships) may reflect poor negotiations
                     with the commercial partner. If so, this requires revised negotiations or a change of
                     commercial partner; and
                 d. Inadequate or incomplete investments (faced by two partnerships) reflect poor
                     subproject design and/or poor beneficiaries' capacity assessment. Closer technical
                     quality control may help.

Impact on Income

   14. The annual net income with project is around US$ 643/family at present and
                 US$ 2,676/family in 3-4 years, according to estimates obtained from producers involved
                 in analyzed alliances. The annual labor costs with project (generally provided in kind
                 by the producers themselves and their families) are around US$1,666/family at present
                 and US$ 1,913/family in 3-4 years. The average opportunity cost of land (also
                 contributed in kind by producers) is around US$ 196/family. The sum of these three

                                                - 36 -


       elements constitutes the average family cash intake, which is around US$ 2,504/family
       at present and USD 4,784/family in 3-4 years. This annual cash intake is about the
       minimum salary (2008)27 at present and estimated at 1.9 times in 3-4 years. If the annual
       repayment of incentivo modular is deducted from the income, the average family cash
       intake in 3-4 years would be 1.7 times the minimum salary, during the five years
       repayment period (most common amortization period).

  15. From the 23 analyzed productive alliances: 26% would generate a future average annual
       cash intake per family larger than two minimum salaries; 30% would generate a future
       cash intake per family from 1.0-2.0 minimum salaries; and 43% would generate a cash
       intake per family lower than the minimum salary.

  16. The annual incremental net income (with-project minus without-project situation) is
       around US$ 280/family at present and is estimated to be US$ 2,300/family in 3-4 years.
       This incremental net income is 77% higher than the without-project level and is estimated
       to be 6.4 times higher in 3-4 years.

Impact on Employment

  17. In terms of annual employment, productive partnerships generate on average an
       additional 201 person-days per family (equivalent to almost 0.8 person-years per
       family)28 at present. This represents a 70% increase with respect to the without-project
       situation. This could increase to 227 person-days per family (equivalent to 0.9 person-
       years per family) in 3-4 years (according to producers' projections), which would
       represent a 92% increase with respect to without-project situation.

Overall Financial and Economic Results

  18. Given that project management and pre-investment costs contributed to the
       identification, preparation, funding and implementation of productive partnerships, the
       results of the latter represent largely the impacts of the whole process. Therefore, the
       costs of other project components (around US$7.7 million) were extrapolated to the
       actual beneficiary population (around 11,700 families). Moreover, considering that 13%
       of supported productive partnerships are no longer operational, the overall financial and
       economic results of the whole project would be as follows:

                      Financial     Financial   Project     Economic    Economic    Project
                      NPV per       IRR         Financial   NPV per     IRR         Economic
                      family                    NPV         family                  NPV
                      (US$)                                 (US$)
    With Project         2,677        19%                      3,790       21%
    Situation
    Incremental          3,009        19%       US$35.2        3,767       20%      US$44.1
    Flows                                        million                             million



27US$197 per month or US$2,364 per year.
28One person/year = 260 person/days.

                                                       - 37 -


Cost Efficiency and Resource Allocation

    19. The sample analysis shows an average total investment per family of US$ 7,259.
        Infrastructure, equipment, plantations, genetic improvements and start-up inputs amount
        to US$ 6,570 per family and represent 90% of total investment. Sources of funds were
        the producers (61%), the project grant (24%) and other collaborates (15%). Producers
        funded 67% of the working capital and 33% came from the project and other partners.
        Technical assistance amounts to US$ 691 per family or 10% of total investment. The
        project and other partners funded the bulk of this technical assistance.

Graph 2: Contributions to Investment




                            Other 15%




                  Project Grant 24%                    Producers 61%




    20. The total project contribution per family (including grant and technical assistance) in the
        sample was US$ 2,255 or 90% of investment ceiling established at appraisal. The
        average contribution in the 136 partnerships of the project was US$1,758 per family or
        67 percent of the ceiling29.

Grouping and Sensitivity Analysis

    21. To identify possible performance groupings for further in-depth exploration, NPV and
        IRR were analyzed for several categories. However, there were not any clear trends. The
        results are not very sensitive to a one-year implementation delay, as most partnerships
        have taken more than one year to disburse.

    22. Sensitivity analysis on the exchange rate shows the following: A Co$/US$ exchange rate
        revaluation from 2,213 to 1,650 (lowest level during 2008) when the input component of
        imported goods is 75%30 results in an average financial IRR31 of 23%. The most affected
        partnerships were those producing export commodities such as coffee, cocoa, rubber and
        palm oil. However, the losses incurred by these partnerships are gains for many other



29The difference can be explained by the fact that the age of the partnerships in the sample is higher than the
average age as the sample contained partnerships that had completed the investment cycle. GCP has progressively
reduced the grant amount per family for reasons of budget and efficiency.
30There is not sufficient information to determine the more likely proportion of imported inputs, but and educated
guess would suggest that 75% is realistic.
31These are results for the analyzed partnerships not for the whole project.

                                           - 38 -


   partnerships that benefit from reduced input prices, resulting in an overall IRR similar to
    the basic scenario.

23. The results are more sensitive to the cost of input prices. A reduction of real input prices
    to 90% of 2008 level (to simulate recovery of purchasing power lost during 2008) results
    in a financial IRR of 26%. When real input prices are 75% of 2008 level, with-project
    financial IRR is 31%. When the input component of imported goods is 50%, with-project
    financial IRR becomes 39%. At present, we cannot forecast the exact recovery of
    purchasing power in future years. The current financial crisis and global recessional trend
    is putting downward pressure on prices. Considering that some inputs doubled in price
    during 2008, an educated guess would suggest that a 10-25% recovery of purchasing
    power could take place if product demand is not significantly affected.

                                                                                                                                                                   39




Table 1. Feasibility Analysis - Sample of 23 Alliances - Results by subproject or alliance plan - Market prices in Thousand Colombian Pesos (COP) of 2008

                                                               Families                  Quantity of production units                     Net annual income                Annual labor costs         Annual labor (person/days)           Other costs                With Project          Incremental       Ex-ante
          Alliance                    Activity              Without     With Production unit      Without          With      With    Without        With       With   Without       With        With  Without      With      With   Rental  Incentivo    Reserve NPV at 12%         IRR NPV at 12%        IRR    IRR
                                                            Project   Project                      Project      Project   Project    Project     Project     Project   Project    Project     Project Project   Project    Project  cost of  Modular    future re-       ADR                   ADR
                                                                                                                           Future                            Future                           Future                       Future      land           investment
Risaralda -Special Coffee                                                                            166.7       166.7      166.7    11,974     225,720     716,773  324,679    400,232     626,045   18,038    22,235    34,780   125,025    61,469     43,063    2,690,947       44%   3,732,585       80%
                            Special Coffee                      67       67       Hectare                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25%
N. Santander - Milk         Milk                               100      100         Caw              400.0       400.0      800.0   (92,390)     39,100     276,600  225,000    135,000     135,000   22,500     9,000     9,000    20,000   112,052     78,135      (19,128)      12%   1,107,685       23%
                            Milk processing                    140      140      Liters/day          900.0    3,560.4     3,560.4   (22,077)     30,553      30,553        -          -           -       -          -         -        -     11,991     13,740    (196,554)      (0%)     (66,304)        8%
 Subtotal                                                      240      240                             -           -          -   (114,467)     69,653    307,153   225,000    135,000     135,000   22,500     9,000     9,000   20,000    124,044     91,875    (215,682)      11%    1,041,382      21%      26%
N. Santander - Onion and    Onion seed                          70       70       Hectare             52.5        52.5       52.5   455,679     723,275     723,275  420,000    420,000     420,000   21,000    21,000    21,000    26,250    57,000       3,344   3,977,691       60%   1,969,696 Indefinida
Beans                       Beans                               70       70       Hectare             52.5        52.5       52.5   290,416     312,256     312,256   84,000      84,000     84,000    4,200     4,200     4,200    26,250    57,000       3,344   1,724,821       83%      11,503       13%
 Subtotal                                                       70       70                             -           -          -    746,095   1,035,531  1,035,531   504,000    504,000     504,000   25,200    25,200    25,200   52,500    114,000       6,687   5,702,512      65%    1,981,199 Indefinida    22%
Tolima - Cocoa              Cocoa                              110      110       Hectare            220.0       220.0      220.0        -     (581,372)    205,348        -    340,560     644,688       -     18,920    35,816    66,000    78,163     34,382   (1,452,462)        0%  (995,785)         4%    23%
Huila - Orellanas           Orellana (mushroom)                 70       70        Group               8.0         8.0        8.0     2,688       9,280      29,034    8,160       2,934      2,934      408       147       147        -     29,354       4,339   (288,220)         1%  (304,705)         0%
                            Orellana marketing                  70       70     Association            1.0         1.0        1.0     1,500         277         957        -         143        143       -         10        10        -     16,820          -      (17,844)     (2%)     (23,140) Indefinida
 Subtotal                                                       70       70                             -           -          -      4,188       9,557     29,990     8,160       3,078      3,078      408       156       156        -     46,174       4,339   (306,064)        1%   (327,846)      (1%)     35%
Huila - Granadilla          Granadilla (fruit)                 101      101       Hectare             40.0        40.0       40.0        -     (237,497)    226,503        -    116,600     156,600       -      4,664     6,264    24,000    69,464     12,240    (134,054)       11%      32,010       12%     72%
Huila - Coffee and Cocoa    Coffee                              78       78       Hectare             57.5        57.5       57.5    33,005     205,505     205,505  166,750    110,170     110,170    8,338     5,509     5,509    34,500    44,301     30,962      519,409       35%     586,682       44%
                            Cocoa                               26       26       Hectare             35.0        35.0       35.0   (16,485)    (16,485)     41,932   67,060      67,060     79,268    3,353     3,353     3,963    21,000    26,966       3,943   (107,701)         4%    156,466       22%
 Subtotal                                                      104      104                             -           -          -     16,520     189,020    247,437   233,810    177,230     189,438   11,691     8,862     9,472   55,500     71,267     34,904      411,709      24%      743,149      36%      61%
Caldas - Blackberry         Blakberry                           65       65       Hectare             65.0        65.0       65.0   (32,630)     80,860      80,860   54,600    546,000     546,000    2,730    27,300    27,300    11,375    87,673     28,416    (411,472)      (4%)   (220,963)         4%    35%
Bolivar - Honey             Honey                               64       64       Bee-hive           960.0    1,360.0     1,360.0    (6,240)    271,320     271,320   61,440      87,040     87,040    4,096     5,803     5,803        -     53,637     37,473    1,023,549       54%   1,362,316 Indefinida    71%
Antioquia - Rubber and      Cocoa (with platain initially)      88       88       Hectare               -        132.0      132.0        -     (235,158)    671,154        -      38,148    154,836       -      2,244     9,108    13,200    46,704     58,773    1,860,487       24%   1,951,822       24%
Cocoa                       Rubber (with platain initially)     88       88       Hectare               -         60.0      176.0        -     (124,911)    371,008        -      23,460     68,816       -      1,380     4,048    17,600    62,272     54,288      289,764       14%     392,990       15%
                            Platain                             88       88       Hectare             28.0        28.0         -     26,409      26,409          -    54,264      54,264          -    3,192     3,192         -        -          -          -       46,165  Indefinida   (90,081)      82%
 Subtotal                                                       88       88                             -           -          -     26,409   (333,660)  1,042,162    54,264    115,872     223,652    3,192     6,816    13,156   30,800    108,976    113,060    2,196,415      20%    2,254,731      20%      37%
Antioquia - Beans and Milk  Beans                               50       50       Hectare             25.0       150.0      150.0    86,260     639,008     639,008  104,000    624,000     624,000    6,500    39,000    39,000    30,000         -          -    3,612,849       73%   3,259,692       71%
                            Milk                                70       70         Caw              280.0       420.0      420.0     7,966      92,700      92,700   70,560    146,160     146,160    4,410     9,135     9,135    21,000    51,112     27,900       12,988       13%     335,675       51%
 Subtotal                                                      120      120                             -           -          -     94,226     731,707    731,707   174,560    770,160     770,160   10,910    48,135    48,135   51,000     51,112     27,900    3,625,837      52%    3,595,367      66%      26%
Antioquia - Cassava         Cassava                             64       64       Hectare            379.0       379.0      379.0  (175,288)     96,077     209,777  497,248    582,144     582,144   31,078    36,384    36,384   132,650    64,492          -    (546,885)         5%  2,002,754       53%
                            Cassava marketing                   80       80     Association            1.0         1.0        1.0        -      (11,526)         -         -          -           -       -          -         -         -         -          -    (162,790) Indefinida  (162,790) Indefinida
                            Tractor services                    80       80     Association            1.0         1.0        1.0        -       14,200      14,200        -       1,600      1,600       -         50        50        -     23,281       5,400   (126,308)         0%  (114,314)         3%
 Subtotal                                                       80       80                             -           -          -   (175,288)     98,751    223,977   497,248    583,744     583,744   31,078    36,434    36,434  132,650     87,773       5,400   (835,983)        3%   1,725,651      35%      45%
Antioquia - Caña Panelera   Caña de azucar                      53       53       Hectare            100.0       100.0      100.0    45,387     152,298     152,298  117,018    176,196     176,196    7,801    11,746    11,746    20,000         -          -      774,227       69%     694,727     150%
                            Panela de caña                      53       53  Kilograms/month      17,200.0   34,400.0    34,400.0    93,835     100,368     100,368   23,467      45,406     45,406    1,564     3,027     3,027        -     46,983     65,224       71,232       15%   (258,917) Indefinida
 Subtotal                                                       53       53                             -           -          -    139,222     252,666    252,666   140,485    221,602     221,602    9,366    14,773    14,773   20,000     46,983     65,224      845,459      32%      435,811      29%      31%
Cesar - Maracuyá            Maracuyá (fruit)                    33       33       Hectare             33.0        33.0       33.0   349,998     (80,058)    843,942  199,650      52,800     52,800    9,983     2,640     2,640     9,075    25,506     60,562    2,044,614       68%     519,763       26%     17%
Cauca - Chicken             Chicken                             73       73      Units/year       66,354.1  409,968.0   409,968.0    37,204     152,791     170,829   35,040    136,680     136,680    2,920    11,390    11,390        -     88,275     22,537    (260,293)         7%  (417,070)         2%    72%
Cauca - Tomato              Tomato                              53       53    Greenhouse               -         53.0       53.0        -      356,118     356,118        -    117,024     117,024       -      9,752     9,752    12,720    69,012     18,277      396,794       24%     967,238       32%     19%
Cauca - Strawberry          Strawberry                          50       50       Hectare             12.5        12.5       12.5     2,785     594,750     594,750   20,405      80,650     80,650    1,360     5,377     5,377     2,250    57,151          -    1,544,019      102%   1,560,631     112%      81%
Santander - Palm oil        Palma oil fruit                     50       50       Hectare               -        500.0      500.0        -     (861,623)    979,498        -    415,800     369,600       -     18,900    16,800    90,000    78,657    154,419      121,478       12%     744,220       14%     15%
Santander - Milk            Milk                                32       32         Caw               96.0       256.0      256.0    11,040      76,918      90,742   14,515      69,120     82,944      660     3,142     3,770     9,600    44,851     30,827    (535,140)         4%  (477,625)         4%
                            Milk processing                     25       45      Liters/day          700.0    1,800.0     1,800.0   (25,621)    335,880     335,880        -      15,446     15,446       -        702       702        -      7,463       2,100   1,608,984      161%   1,804,803 Indefinida
 Subtotal                                                       32       45                             -           -          -    (14,581)    412,798    426,622    14,515      84,566     98,390      660     3,844     4,472    9,600     52,314     32,927    1,073,844      27%    1,327,178      33%      50%
Cundinamarca - Blakberry    Blackberry                         116      116       Hectare            116.0       116.0      116.0   225,330     281,474     281,474  881,600    918,720     918,720   44,080    45,936    45,936    40,600    93,120    227,486    (831,640)         2% (1,118,358) Indefinida   42%
Cundinamarca - Palm oil     Palm oil fruit                      52       52       Hectare            510.0       510.0      510.0        -     (329,154)  1,148,658        -    479,756     774,928       -     14,538    23,483        -    307,180    166,340      988,326       14%     988,326       14%     21%
Meta - Stevia               Stevia (natural sweetener)           7        7       Hectare              0.5         0.5        0.5        -        (781)       2,069        -       4,350      1,500       -        174        60       150    33,241       1,268   (281,107) Indefinida  (280,326) Indefinida    81%
Choco - Fishing             Artisanal fishing                   30       30    Pounds/month       22,500.0   48,535.7    48,535.7    77,850     127,990     127,990   77,850    127,990     127,990    5,190     8,533     8,533        -          -          -      631,134       64%     301,722       81%
                            Fish marketing                      30       30    Pounds/month             -        393.8      393.8        -        9,026       9,026        -          -           -       -          -         -         -    21,600     17,326    (200,020)      (2%)   (404,741)   #DIV/0!
 Subtotal                                                       30       30                             -           -          -     77,850     137,015    137,015    77,850    127,990     127,990    5,190     8,533     8,533        -     21,600     17,326      431,114      23%    (103,019)        9%     15%
Aggregated                                                  1,728     1,741                                                       1,388,595   2,475,587  10,312,403 3,507,307 6,419,453    7,369,328 203,401   349,381   394,732   753,245 1,826,791   1,206,104  18,685,617       23% 19,548,190        23%

                                                                                                                                                         40




Table 2. Feasibility Analysis - Sample of 23 Alliances - Average results par participating family - Market prices in Thousand Colombian Pesos (COP) of 2008

                                                               Families                   Quantity of production units                Net annual income          Annual labor costs       Annual labor (person/days)          Other costs              With Project         Incremental    Ex-ante
          Alliance                     Activity            Without       With Production unit       Without       With     With   Without      With      With Without     With      With  Without      With      With  Rental Incentivo    Reserve     NPV at       IRR   NPV at        IRR   IRR
                                                            Project   Project                       Project    Project   Project   Project  Project   Project Project  Project    Project Project   Project    Project cost of Modular    future re- 12% ADR           12% ADR
                                                                                                                          Future                      Future                      Future                       Future    land           investment
Risaralda -Special Coffee                                                                              2.5         2.5      2.5      179     3,369   10,698   4,846     5,974     9,344      269       332       519   1,866       917         643    40,163       44%   55,710        80%
                           Special Coffee                       67        67        Hectare                                                                                                                                                                                                   25%
N. Santander - Milk        Milk                                100       100          Caw              4.0         4.0      8.0     (924)      391     2,766  2,250     1,350     1,350     225         90        90     200     1,121         781     (191)       12%   11,077        23%
                           Milk processing                    140        140       Liters/day          6.4       25.4      25.4     (158)      218       218      -        -          -       -          -         -       -        86          98    (1,404)      (0%)   (474)         8%
 Subtotal                                                      240       240                            -           -        -     (477)       290     1,280    938       563       563      94         38        38      83       517         383     (899)       11%    4,339        21%    26%
N. Santander - Onion and   Onion seed                           70        70        Hectare            0.8         0.8      0.8    6,510    10,333   10,333   6,000     6,000     6,000     300        300       300     375       814          48    56,824       60%   28,139   Undefined
Beans                      Beans                                70        70        Hectare            0.8         0.8      0.8    4,149     4,461     4,461  1,200     1,200     1,200       60        60        60     375       814          48    24,640       83%       164       13%
 Subtotal                                                       70        70                            -           -        -    10,659    14,793   14,793   7,200     7,200     7,200     360        360       360     750     1,629          96    81,464       65%   28,303   Undefined   22%
Tolima - Cocoa             Cocoa                               110       110        Hectare            2.0         2.0      2.0        -    (5,285)    1,867      -     3,096     5,861       -        172       326     600       711         313   (13,204)       0%   (9,053)        4%    23%
Huila - Orellanas          Orellana (mushroom)                 70         70         Group             0.1         0.1      0.1       38       133       415     117       42        42       6          2         2       -       419          62    (4,117)       1%   (4,353)        0%
                           Orellana marketing                  70         70      Association          0.0         0.0      0.0       21          4       14      -         2         2       -          0         0       -       240          -      (255)       (2%)   (331)   Undefined
 Subtotal                                                      70         70                            -           -        -        60       137       428    117        44        44       6          2         2      -        660          62    (4,372)       1%   (4,684)       (1%)   35%
Huila - Granadilla         Granadilla (fruit)                 101        101        Hectare            0.4         0.4      0.4        -    (2,351)    2,243      -     1,154     1,550       -         46        62     238       688         121    (1,327)      11%       317       12%    72%
Huila - Coffee and Cocoa   Coffee                              78         78        Hectare            0.7         0.7      0.7      423     2,635     2,635  2,138     1,412     1,412     107         71        71     442       568         397     6,659       35%    7,522        44%
                           Cocoa                               26         26        Hectare            1.3         1.3      1.3     (634)    (634)     1,613  2,579     2,579     3,049     129        129       152     808     1,037         152    (4,142)       4%    6,018        22%
 Subtotal                                                     104        104                            -           -        -       159     1,818     2,379  2,248     1,704     1,822     112         85        91     534       685         336     3,959       24%    7,146        36%    61%
Caldas - Blackberry        Blakberry                           65         65        Hectare            1.0         1.0      1.0     (502)    1,244     1,244    840     8,400     8,400      42        420       420     175     1,349         437    (6,330)      (4%)  (3,399)        4%    35%
Bolivar - Honey            Honey                               64         64        Bee-hive          15.0       21.3      21.3      (98)    4,239     4,239    960     1,360     1,360      64         91        91       -      838         586     15,993       54%   21,286 Undefined     71%
Antioquia - Rubber and     Cocoa (with platain initially)      88         88        Hectare             -          1.5      1.5        -    (2,672)    7,627      -       434     1,760       -         26       104     150       531         668    21,142       24%   22,180        24%
Cocoa                      Rubber (with platain initially)     88         88        Hectare             -          0.7      2.0        -    (1,419)    4,216      -       267       782       -         16        46     200       708         617     3,293       14%    4,466        15%
                           Platain                             88         88        Hectare            0.3         0.3       -       300       300        -     617       617         -      36         36         -       -         -          -        525 Undefined   (1,024)       82%
 Subtotal                                                      88         88                            -           -        -       300   (3,792)   11,843     617     1,317     2,542      36         77       150     350     1,238       1,285    24,959       20%   25,622        20%    37%
Antioquia - Beans and Milk Beans                               50         50        Hectare            0.5         3.0      3.0    1,725    12,780   12,780   2,080   12,480     12,480     130        780       780     600         -          -     72,257       73%   65,194        71%
                           Milk                                70         70          Caw              4.0         6.0      6.0      114     1,324     1,324  1,008     2,088     2,088      63        131       131     300       730         399       186       13%    4,795        51%
 Subtotal                                                     120        120                            -           -        -       785     6,098     6,098  1,455     6,418     6,418      91        401       401     425       426         233    30,215       52%   29,961        66%    26%
Antioquia - Cassava        Cassava                             64         64        Hectare            5.9         5.9      5.9   (2,739)    1,501     3,278  7,770     9,096     9,096     486        569       569   2,073     1,008          -     (8,545)       5%   31,293        53%
                           Cassava marketing                   80         80      Association          0.0         0.0      0.0        -     (144)        -       -        -          -       -          -         -       -         -          -     (2,035) Undefined  (2,035)  Undefined
                           Tractor services                    80         80      Association          0.0         0.0      0.0        -       178       178      -        20        20       -          1         1       -       291          68    (1,579)       0%   (1,429)        3%
 Subtotal                                                      80         80                            -           -        -    (2,191)    1,234     2,800  6,216     7,297     7,297     388        455       455   1,658     1,097          68   (10,450)       3%   21,571        35%    45%
Antioquia - Caña Panelera Caña de azucar                       53         53        Hectare            1.9         1.9      1.9      856     2,874     2,874  2,208     3,324     3,324     147        222       222     377         -          -     14,608       69%   13,108       150%
                           Panela de caña                      53         53   Kilograms/month       324.5      649.1     649.1    1,770     1,894     1,894    443       857       857      30         57        57       -       886       1,231     1,344       15%   (4,885)  Undefined
 Subtotal                                                      53         53                            -           -        -     2,627     4,767     4,767  2,651     4,181     4,181     177        279       279     377       886       1,231    15,952       32%    8,223        29%    31%
Cesar - Maracuyá           Maracuyá (fruit)                    33         33        Hectare            1.0         1.0      1.0   10,606    (2,426)  25,574   6,050     1,600     1,600     303         80        80     275       773       1,835    61,958       68%   15,750        26%    17%
Cauca - Chicken            Chicken                             73         73       Units/year        909.0    5,616.0   5,616.0      510     2,093     2,340    480     1,872     1,872      40        156       156       -     1,209         309    (3,566)       7%   (5,713)        2%    72%
Cauca - Tomato             Tomato                              53         53      Greenhouse            -          1.0      1.0        -     6,719     6,719      -     2,208     2,208       -        184       184     240     1,302         345     7,487       24%   18,250        32%    19%
Cauca - Strawberry         Strawberry                          50         50        Hectare            0.3         0.3      0.3       56    11,895   11,895     408     1,613     1,613      27        108       108      45     1,143          -     30,880     102%    31,213       112%    81%
Santander - Palm oil       Palma oil fruit                     50         50        Hectare             -        10.0      10.0        -   (17,232)  19,590       -     8,316     7,392       -        378       336   1,800     1,573       3,088     2,430       12%   14,884        14%    15%
Santander - Milk           Milk                                 32        32          Caw              3.0         8.0      8.0      345     2,404     2,836     454    2,160     2,592      21         98       118     300     1,402         963   (16,723)       4%  (14,926)        4%
                           Milk processing                      25        45       Liters/day         28.0       40.0      40.0   (1,025)    7,464     7,464      -       343       343       -         16        16       -       166          47    35,755     161%    40,107   Undefined
 Subtotal                                                       32        45                            -           -        -     (456)     9,173     9,480    454     1,879     2,186      21         85        99     213     1,163         732    23,863       27%   29,493        33%    50%
Cundinamarca - Blakberry Blackberry                           116        116        Hectare            1.0         1.0      1.0    1,943     2,427     2,427  7,600     7,920     7,920     380        396       396     350       803       1,961    (7,169)       2%   (9,641)  Undefined   42%
Cundinamarca - Palm oil    Palm oil fruit                       52        52        Hectare            9.8         9.8      9.8        -    (6,330)  22,090       -     9,226    14,902       -        280       452       -     5,907       3,199    19,006       14%   19,006        14%    21%
Meta - Stevia              Stevia (natural sweetener)           7          7        Hectare            0.1         0.1      0.1        -     (112)       296      -       621       214       -         25         9      21     4,749         181   (40,158) Undefined (40,047)  Undefined   81%
Choco - Fishing            Artisanal fishing                   30         30    Pounds/month         750.0    1,617.9   1,617.9    2,595     4,266     4,266  2,595     4,266     4,266     173        284       284       -         -          -     21,038       64%   10,057        81%
                           Fish marketing                       30        30    Pounds/month            -        13.1      13.1        -       301       301      -        -          -       -          -         -       -      720         578     (6,667)      (2%) (13,491)  Undefined
 Subtotal                                                       30        30                            -           -        -     2,595     4,567     4,567  2,595     4,266     4,266     173        284       284      -        720         578    14,370       23%   (3,434)        9%    15%
Average                                                      1,728     1,741                                                          804    1,422     5,923  2,030     3,687     4,233      118        201      227     433     1,049         693    10,733       23%   11,228        23%

                                                                                                                                                      - 41 -




Table 3. Sensitivity Analysis - Sample of 23 Alliances - With Project Situation - Values in Thousand Colombian Pesos (COP) of 2008

                                                                    Social Prices            Market Prices           Market Prices          Market Prices       Market Prices + Exchange rate COP/USD goes from 2213 to 1650          Market Prices + Recovery of purchasing power of inputs
    Subproject - Alliance                    Activity             Execution 1 year          Execution 1 year      Execution 2 years       Without own IWC        IC 50% NC 50%         IC 70% NC 30%          IC 90% NC 10%      Input costs at 90%     Input costs at 75%    Input costs at 50%
                                                                 NPV at 12%         IRR NPV at 12%         IRR NPV at 12%            IRR NPV at 12%       IRR NPV at 12%        IRR NPV at 12%        IRR NPV at 12%         IRR NPV at 12%       IRR NPV at 12%         IRR NPV at 12%         IRR
                                                                        ADR                      ADR                    ADR                    ADR                   ADR                   ADR                    ADR                  ADR                    ADR                   ADR
Risaralda -Special Coffee       Special Coffee                    3,005,380        48%      2,690,947     44%      2,309,671        39%   2,893,867      58%      392,459      18%      510,081      20%       627,704      22%   2,922,117       48%    3,268,873      55%    3,846,799       67%
N. Santander - Milk             Milk                                 54,844        12%       (19,128)     12%       (114,409)       11%      (7,166)     12%      111,049      13%      163,120      13%       215,190      14%      83,210       13%      236,717      14%      492,562       16%
                                Milk processing                     (85,813)         5%     (196,554)     (0%)      (195,983)       (0%)  (139,892)      (1%)     474,466      35%      742,874      47%     1,011,282      58%     330,965       29%    1,122,245      62%    2,441,044      114%
 Subtotal                                                           (30,969)       12%      (215,682)     11%      (310,392)        10%   (147,057)      11%     585,515       16%      905,994      19%     1,226,473      21%     414,176      15%    1,358,962       22%   2,933,605       34%
N. Santander - Onion and        Onion seed                        4,207,826        63%      3,977,691     60%      3,439,084        50%   4,668,741 Undefined  4,793,927       75%    5,120,421      82%     5,446,915      90%   4,619,371       72%    5,581,891      93%    7,186,092      147%
Beans                           Beans                             1,770,848        85%      1,724,821     83%      1,497,424        65%   1,820,055     129%   1,831,767       90%    1,874,546      94%     1,917,324      97%   1,808,896       89%    1,935,009      98%    2,145,197      117%
 Subtotal                                                         5,978,674        68%     5,702,512      65%      4,936,509        53%   6,488,796 Undefined  6,625,694       79%    6,994,967      85%     7,364,239      92%   6,428,267      76%    7,516,900       94%   9,331,289      138%

Tolima - Cocoa                                                   (1,137,733)        3%   (1,452,462)        0%   (1,371,564)        (0%) (1,200,407)      0%  (2,714,810) Undefined  (2,605,198) Undefined (2,495,587) Undefined (1,237,036)       2%    (913,896)        5%   (375,331)         9%
                                Cocoa
Huila - Orellanas               Orellana (mushroom)                (286,612)         1%     (288,220)       1%      (284,755)         0%  (288,220)        1%   (274,315)        2%    (268,752)       2%    (263,190)        2%  (277,288)        2%    (260,890)        2%   (233,560)         4%
                                Orellana marketing                  (17,765)       (2%)      (17,844)     (2%)       (17,272)       (3%)    (16,238)     (3%)      (9,416)       6%      (6,045)       8%       (2,674)     10%     (11,218)       4%      (1,280)       11%      15,283       20%
 Subtotal                                                         (304,378)         1%      (306,064)       1%     (302,027)         0%   (304,458)       1%   (283,731)        2%    (274,797)        2%    (265,864)       3%   (288,507)       2%     (262,171)       3%    (218,277)        5%
Huila - Granadilla              Granadilla (fruit)                  (53,313)       11%      (134,054)     11%       (181,522)       10%     100,087      13%       99,583      13%      193,038      14%       286,493      15%      49,618       13%      325,128      16%      784,310       21%
Huila - Coffee and Cocoa        Coffee                              564,809        37%        519,409     35%        441,918        30%     543,530      38%       34,960      14%       69,548      16%       104,137      18%     587,388       38%      689,357      44%      859,305       53%
                                                                    (65,813)         7%     (107,701)       4%      (106,785)         3%    (97,890)       4%   (299,680) Undefined    (295,735) Undefined   (291,789) Undefined    (99,947)       5%     (88,316)        6%    (68,932)         7%
                                Cocoa
 Subtotal                                                           498,996        27%       411,709      24%        335,133        22%     445,641      26%   (264,720)      (0%)    (226,187)        2%    (187,653)       4%     487,442      27%      601,041       30%     790,373       37%
Caldas - Blackberry             Blakberry                           (34,582)       10%      (411,472)     (4%)      (408,882)       (4%)  (318,207)      (6%)   (310,417)      (0%)    (269,994)       1%    (229,572)       3%   (332,028)      (1%)    (212,861)       3%     (14,249)       11%
Bolivar - Honey                 Honey                             1,059,417        56%      1,023,549     54%        892,176        45%   1,059,050      62%   1,062,724       56%    1,078,394      57%     1,094,064      58%   1,054,346       56%    1,100,542      58%    1,177,535       63%
Antioquia - Rubber and Cocoa Cocoa (with platain initially)       1,930,548        24%      1,860,487     24%      1,527,400        22%   2,005,454      26%      690,134      17%      757,938      18%       825,742      18%   1,993,746       25%    2,193,635       26%   2,526,784       29%
                                Rubber (with platain initially)     321,726        14%        289,764     14%        149,309        13%     461,041      16%    (394,192)        8%    (324,770)       9%    (255,347)      10%     426,204       15%      630,865       17%     971,967       19%
                                Platain                              54,567 Undefined          46,165 Undefined       41,218 Undefined       46,165 Undefined       4,160 Undefined       4,909 Undefined        5,658 Undefined     47,637 Undefined       49,844 Undefined      53,524 Undefined
 Subtotal                                                         2,306,841        20%     2,196,415      20%      1,717,928        18%   2,512,660      22%     300,102       13%      438,077      14%       576,053      14%   2,467,587      21%    2,874,345       22%   3,552,274       25%
Antioquia - Beans and Milk      Beans                             3,954,765        78%      3,612,849     73%      3,133,633        58%   3,914,254     136%   4,579,184       94%    4,965,719     104%     5,352,253     114%   4,372,530       89%    5,512,050      119%   7,411,250      188%
                                Milk                                 49,544        15%         12,988     13%        (12,831)       11%      16,187      13%       49,046      15%       63,470      16%        77,893      17%      41,335       14%       83,856       17%     154,724       21%
 Subtotal                                                         4,004,308        56%     3,625,837      52%      3,120,802        44%   3,930,440      72%   4,628,231       65%    5,029,188      70%     5,430,146      75%   4,413,865      62%    5,595,906       78%   7,565,974      108%
Antioquia - Cassava             Cassava                            (227,904)         9%     (546,885)       5%      (540,515)         4%    (56,681)     10%      100,918      13%      360,039      17%       619,160      21%     (37,617)      11%      726,284       23%   1,999,453       46%
                                Cassava marketing                  (162,790) Undefined      (162,790) Undefined     (153,081) Undefined   (162,790) Undefined   (151,936) Undefined    (147,594) Undefined   (143,253) Undefined  (154,257) Undefined    (141,458) Undefined   (120,126) Undefined
                                Tractor services                   (125,502)         0%     (126,308)       0%      (124,591)         0%  (122,875)        0%   (122,471)        1%    (120,937)       1%    (119,402)        1%  (123,292)        1%    (118,767)        1%   (111,226)         2%
 Subtotal                                                         (516,196)         7%      (835,983)       3%     (818,187)         3%   (342,346)       6%   (173,489)       10%       91,508      13%       356,506      16%   (315,166)       9%      466,059       17%   1,768,100       33%
Antioquia - Caña Panelera       Caña de azucar                      975,466 Undefined         774,227     69%        670,555        56%     853,729     150%      863,507      80%      899,219      84%       934,930      89%     844,414       77%      949,694      91%    1,125,162      121%
                                Panela de caña                      160,451        20%         71,232     15%         38,894        14%      92,549      17%      323,677      26%      424,656      30%       525,634      34%     269,691       24%      567,379      35%    1,063,526       53%
 Subtotal                                                         1,135,917        48%       845,459      32%        709,449        28%     946,278      40%   1,187,184       41%    1,323,874     45%      1,460,564      48%   1,114,105      39%    1,517,073       49%   2,188,688       67%
Cesar - Maracuyá                Maracuyá (fruit)                  2,063,518        68%      2,044,614     68%      1,811,456        60%   2,060,863      71%   2,062,357       69%    2,069,455      69%     2,076,552      69%   2,058,563       68%    2,079,486      70%    2,114,358       71%
Cauca - Chicken                 Chicken                             (64,590)       11%      (260,293)       7%      (293,116)         6%  (233,179)        7%     (98,021)     10%      (33,112)     11%        31,797      13%   (132,724)       9%       58,631       13%     377,555        19%
Cauca - Tomato                  Tomato                              430,757        25%       396,794      24%        304,562        21%     405,580      25%      527,069      28%      579,179      30%       631,289      32%     499,209       27%     652,832       32%      908,870       40%
Cauca - Strawberry              Strawberry                        1,890,148 Undefined       1,544,019    102%      1,355,944        75%   1,616,743     159%   1,675,159      116%    1,727,615     123%     1,780,071     130%   1,647,114      113%    1,801,757      133%   2,059,495      178%
Santander - Palm oil            Palma oil fruit                     402,847        13%        121,478     12%       (149,197)       12%     121,478      12%  (2,396,813)        3%  (2,047,276)       5%  (1,697,738)        6%    808,446       14%    1,838,898       17%   3,556,319       21%
Santander - Milk                Milk                               (532,830)         4%     (535,140)       4%      (542,162)         4%  (531,943)        4%   (496,533)        5%    (481,090)       5%    (465,647)        5%  (504,789)        5%    (459,263)        5%   (383,386)         7%
                                Milk processing                   1,644,057       195%      1,608,984    161%      1,428,858       110%   1,620,606     179%   1,746,614      174%    1,801,666     179%     1,856,717     184%   1,717,181      171%    1,879,476      186%   2,149,969 Undefined
 Subtotal                                                         1,111,227        28%     1,073,844      27%        886,696        24%   1,088,663      27%   1,250,081       29%    1,320,576      30%     1,391,070      31%   1,212,392      29%    1,420,214       32%   1,766,583       36%
Cundinamarca - Blakberry        Blackberry                         (414,007)       11%      (831,640)       2%      (827,843)         2%  (665,834)        3%   (730,183)        4%    (689,601)       5%    (649,018)        6%  (751,880)        4%    (632,241)        6%   (432,842)       11%
Cundinamarca - Palm oil         Palm oil fruit                    1,487,750        15%        988,326     14%        525,235        13%     988,326      14%  (3,216,086)        3%  (2,600,185)       5%  (1,984,284)        7%  2,198,795       17%    4,014,499       21%   7,040,673       27%
Meta - Stevia                   Stevia (natural sweetener)         (280,128) Undefined      (281,107) Undefined     (266,346) Undefined   (280,798) Undefined   (280,766) Undefined    (280,630) Undefined   (280,494) Undefined  (280,839) Undefined    (280,438) Undefined   (279,769) Undefined
Choco - Fishing                 Artisanal fishing                   891,549       146%        631,134     64%        164,113        76%     857,137 Undefined  1,226,162      200%    1,388,059 Undefined    1,549,957 Undefined  1,139,606      186%    1,616,887 Undefined   2,412,355 Undefined
                                Fish marketing                     (404,741) Undefined      (200,020)     (2%)       207,333        17%   (403,445) Undefined   (389,087) Undefined    (382,825)     (6%)    (376,563)      (6%)  (392,434) Undefined    (373,975)      (5%)   (343,209)       (3%)
 Subtotal                                                           486,808        24%       431,114      23%        371,446        21%     453,692      25%     837,075       33%    1,005,234      36%     1,173,393      40%     747,171      30%    1,242,912       41%   2,069,146       59%
Aggregated                                                       23,414,221        25% 18,685,617         23% 14,631,639            20% 21,862,631       26%  11,094,315       21%   14,575,262      23% 18,056,209         24% 25,512,509       26% 35,774,501         31% 52,877,822         39%
IWC = Initial Working Capital. IC = Imported goods component of production inputs. NC = National goods component of production inputs.

                                                                                                                                                        42




Table 4. Sensitivity Analysis - Sample of 23 Alliances - Incremental Flows - Values in Thousand Colombian Pesos (COP) of 2008

                                                                     Social Prices               Market Prices           Market Prices         Market Prices         Market Prices + Exchange rate COP/USD goes from 2213 to 1650            Market Prices + Recovery of purchasing power of inputs
    Subproject - Alliance                    Activity              Execution 1 year           Execution 1 year         Execution 2 years     Without own IWC         IC 50% NC 50%          IC 70% NC 30%          IC 90% NC 10%       Input costs at 90%      Input costs at 75%     Input costs at 50%
                                                                 NPV at 12%           IRR    NPV at 12%        IRR NPV at 12%           IRR NPV at 12%       IRR NPV at 12%          IRR NPV at 12%       IRR NPV at 12%         IRR NPV at 12%         IRR NPV at 12%           IRR NPV at 12%         IRR
                                                                        ADR                         ADR                      ADR                   ADR                  ADR                    ADR                    ADR                   ADR                     ADR                    ADR
Risaralda -Special Coffee       Special Coffee                     3,869,113         82%       3,732,585       80%     3,240,057        67%  3,676,107      72%    1,434,098        44%   1,551,720      48%     1,669,342       52%   3,963,756        90%    4,310,511       107%   4,888,438       150%
N. Santander - Milk             Milk                               1,058,371         23%       1,107,685       23%       890,792        21%  1,077,615      23%    1,230,411        24%   1,279,501      25%     1,328,591       25%   1,204,165        24%    1,348,885        26%   1,590,086        28%
                                Milk processing                       44,437         16%         (66,304)       8%       (78,474)       7%     (25,009)     10%       604,717       43%     873,125      54%     1,141,533       66%     461,216        36%    1,252,495        71%   2,571,294       126%
 Subtotal                                                          1,102,808         22%      1,041,382       21%        812,318       19%   1,052,606      21%    1,835,127       28%    2,152,625      31%     2,470,124      34%    1,665,381        26%    2,601,381        35%   4,161,380        50%
N. Santander - Onion and        Onion seed                         1,969,696 Undefined         1,969,696 Undefined     1,735,579 Undefined   1,697,372     122%    2,785,932 Undefined    3,112,426 Undefined    3,438,920 Undefined   2,611,376 Undefined     3,573,896 Undefined    5,178,097 Undefined
Beans                           Beans                                 11,503         13%          11,503       13%            391       12%     (7,801)     11%       118,449       25%     161,227      30%       204,006       36%      95,578        23%      221,691        38%     431,879        72%
 Subtotal                                                          1,981,199 Undefined        1,981,199 Undefined      1,735,970 Undefined   1,689,571      72%    2,904,381 Undefined    3,273,653 Undefined    3,642,926 Undefined   2,706,954 Undefined     3,795,587 Undefined    5,609,976 Undefined
Tolima - Cocoa                  Cocoa                              (681,056)           7%      (995,785)        4%      (970,659)        4%  (743,730)        5%  (2,258,133) Undefined  (2,148,521) Undefined (2,038,910) Undefined    (780,359)        6%     (457,219)        9%      81,346        13%
Huila - Orellanas               Orellana (mushroom)                (307,569)         (0%)      (304,705)        0%      (299,097)      (0%)  (306,820)        0%   (290,799)         1%    (285,237)       1%     (279,675)       1%    (293,773)        1%     (277,375)         2%   (250,045)        3%
                                Orellana marketing                   (23,062) Undefined          (23,140) Undefined      (21,609) Undefined    (26,617) Undefined    (14,713) Undefined     (11,342)       0%       (7,971)       5%     (16,515) Undefined       (6,577)        6%       9,986        19%
 Subtotal                                                          (330,631)         (1%)      (327,846)      (1%)     (320,706)       (1%)  (333,437)      (1%)   (305,512)         1%   (296,579)        1%    (287,646)        2%   (310,288)         0%    (283,952)         2%   (240,059)         4%
Huila - Granadilla              Granadilla (fruit)                   112,751         13%          32,010       12%       (35,738)       12%    266,151      16%       265,647       15%     359,102      16%       452,557       17%     215,683        14%      491,192        17%     950,374        23%
Huila - Coffee and Cocoa        Coffee                               563,367         43%         586,682       44%       506,684        37%    551,310      38%       102,233       19%     136,821      21%       171,410       24%     654,662        49%      756,630        56%     926,578        69%
                                Cocoa                                161,609         22%         156,466       22%       130,482        21%    161,482      23%      (35,513)         9%    (31,568)       9%      (27,623)      10%     164,220        23%      175,851        23%     195,235        25%
 Subtotal                                                            724,976         35%         743,149      36%        637,166       31%     712,792      33%       66,720       15%      105,253      16%       143,787      18%      818,882        39%      932,481        43%   1,121,813        51%
Caldas - Blackberry             Blakberry                            138,125         18%       (220,963)        4%      (237,872)       3%   (137,024)        5%   (119,907)         7%     (79,485)       9%      (39,062)      10%    (141,518)        7%      (22,351)       11%     176,260        19%
Bolivar - Honey                 Honey                              1,372,866 Undefined         1,362,316 Undefined     1,213,084 Undefined   1,318,082 Undefined   1,401,491 Undefined    1,417,161 Undefined    1,432,831 Undefined   1,393,114 Undefined     1,439,309 Undefined    1,516,303 Undefined
Antioquia - Rubber and Cocoa Cocoa (with platain initially)        2,021,883         25%       1,951,822       24%     1,607,582        23%  2,096,790      26%       781,469       18%     849,273      18%       917,077       19%   2,085,082        25%    2,284,971        27%   2,618,119        29%
                                Rubber (with platain initially)      424,952         15%         392,990       15%       239,650        14%    564,267      17%    (290,966)         9%    (221,544)     10%      (152,121)      11%     529,430        16%      734,091        18%   1,075,193        20%
                                Platain                            (105,569)         88%         (90,081)     82%        (80,026)      70%     (95,185) Undefined  (124,440)       196%    (123,828)    193%      (123,215)     191%     (88,877)       79%      (87,071)       75%     (84,061)       70%
 Subtotal                                                          2,341,266         20%      2,254,731       20%      1,767,205       18%   2,565,872      22%      366,063       13%      503,902      14%       641,741      15%    2,525,635        21%    2,931,991        22%   3,609,251        25%
Antioquia - Beans and Milk      Beans                              3,544,621         75%       3,259,692       71%     2,825,827        57%  3,524,971     125%    4,226,027        94%   4,612,561     104%     4,999,095      115%   4,019,372        88%    5,158,892       120%   7,058,092       197%
                                Milk                                 354,584         53%         335,675       51%       290,471        42%    337,353      51%       371,734       55%     386,157      57%       400,581       58%     364,023        54%      406,543        59%     477,411        68%
 Subtotal                                                          3,899,204         70%      3,595,367       66%      3,116,298       54%   3,862,324     100%    4,597,760       85%    4,998,718      93%     5,399,675     101%    4,383,394        80%    5,565,435       105%   7,535,504       158%
Antioquia - Cassava             Cassava                            2,049,272         54%       2,002,754       53%     1,723,519        45%  2,074,046      61%    2,650,557        75%   2,909,678      86%     3,168,799       99%   2,512,021        70%    3,275,923       104%   4,549,091       230%
                                Cassava marketing                  (162,790) Undefined         (162,790) Undefined      (153,081) Undefined  (162,790) Undefined   (151,936) Undefined     (147,594) Undefined    (143,253) Undefined   (154,257) Undefined     (141,458) Undefined    (120,126) Undefined
                                Tractor services                   (113,489)          3%       (114,314)        3%      (119,031)        1%  (118,331)        2%   (111,347)         3%    (110,160)       3%     (108,973)       3%    (111,981)        3%     (108,482)        3%    (102,651)        4%
 Subtotal                                                          1,772,993         35%      1,725,651       35%      1,451,407       31%   1,792,925      38%    2,387,274       46%    2,651,924      51%     2,916,573      56%    2,245,783        43%    3,025,982        59%   4,326,314        95%
Antioquia - Caña Panelera       Caña de azucar                       831,848 Undefined           694,727      150%       607,065       104%    732,850 Undefined      784,007 Undefined     819,719 Undefined      855,431 Undefined     764,914       190%      870,195 Undefined    1,045,663 Undefined
                                Panela de caña                     (179,369)        (11%)      (258,917) Undefined      (247,202) Undefined  (245,749)     (20%)      (6,471)       12%      94,507      19%       195,485       25%     (60,458)        7%      237,230        28%     733,377        56%
 Subtotal                                                            652,479         56%         435,811      29%        359,863       25%     487,102      34%      777,536       44%      914,226      50%     1,050,916      56%      704,457        40%    1,107,425        59%   1,779,040        91%
Cesar - Maracuyá                Maracuyá (fruit)                     467,186         24%         519,763       26%       451,467        24%    519,478      26%       537,104       26%     544,040      26%       550,977       27%     533,396        26%      553,844        27%     587,925        28%
Cauca - Chicken                 Chicken                            (235,806)           6%      (417,070)        2%      (430,186)        2%  (426,782)        2%   (254,798)          6%   (189,889)       8%     (124,980)       9%    (289,500)        5%      (98,146)       10%     220,779        17%
Cauca - Tomato                  Tomato                             1,015,462         32%         967,238       32%       813,887        27%    979,313      32%    1,151,838        35%   1,225,677      37%     1,299,517       38%   1,112,360        34%    1,330,043        39%   1,692,847        46%
Cauca - Strawberry              Strawberry                         1,901,657 Undefined         1,560,631      112%     1,373,043        81%  1,615,053     159%    1,691,771       129%   1,744,228     137%     1,796,684      145%   1,663,727       125%    1,818,370       149%   2,076,108 Undefined
Santander - Palm oil            Palma oil fruit                    1,025,589         15%         744,220       14%       397,492        13%    744,220      14%   (1,774,071)         6% (1,424,534)       7%  (1,074,997)        8%   1,431,188        16%    2,461,640        19%   4,179,060        23%
Santander - Milk                Milk                               (484,821)          4%       (477,625)        4%      (488,646)        3%  (475,627)        4%   (439,018)         5%    (423,575)       5%     (408,133)       5%    (447,275)        4%     (401,748)        5%    (325,871)        7%
                                Milk processing                    1,839,876 Undefined         1,804,803 Undefined     1,607,362 Undefined   1,803,931 Undefined   1,942,433 Undefined    1,997,485 Undefined    2,052,537 Undefined   1,913,000 Undefined     2,075,296 Undefined    2,345,788 Undefined
 Subtotal                                                          1,355,056         34%      1,327,178       33%      1,118,716       29%   1,328,303      33%    1,503,415       36%    1,573,909      37%     1,644,404      38%    1,465,726        35%    1,673,547        38%   2,019,917        43%
Cundinamarca - Blakberry        Blackberry                         (918,402)        (32%)    (1,118,358) Undefined    (1,068,570) Undefined (1,183,674) Undefined (1,004,541) Undefined    (959,014) Undefined    (913,487)    (22%)  (1,028,881) Undefined     (894,666)      (21%)   (670,973)      (11%)
Cundinamarca - Palm oil         Palm oil fruit                     1,487,750         15%         988,326       14%       525,235        13%    988,326      14%   (3,216,086)         3% (2,600,185)       5%  (1,984,284)        7%   2,198,795        17%    4,014,499        21%   7,040,673        27%
Meta - Stevia                   Stevia (natural sweetener)         (279,347) Undefined         (280,326) Undefined      (265,649) Undefined  (280,018) Undefined   (279,986) Undefined     (279,850) Undefined    (279,713) Undefined   (280,059) Undefined     (279,657) Undefined    (278,988) Undefined
Choco - Fishing                 Artisanal fishing                    329,196         87%         301,722       81%       261,914        64%    318,465     125%       706,466      172%     868,363 Undefined    1,030,260 Undefined     619,910       152%    1,097,190 Undefined    1,892,659 Undefined
                                Fish marketing                     (404,741) Undefined         (404,741) Undefined      (387,331) Undefined  (403,445) Undefined   (389,087) Undefined     (382,825)     (6%)     (376,563)     (6%)    (392,434)     #NUM!     (373,975)       (5%)   (343,209)       (3%)
 Subtotal                                                           (75,545)         10%       (103,019)        9%     (125,417)        8%     (84,979)       9%     317,379       21%      485,538      25%       653,697      29%      227,475        18%      723,216        31%   1,549,450        50%
Aggregated                                                       22,699,694          25%     19,548,190       23% 15,558,412           21% 20,408,581       23% 12,024,570         21% 15,523,621        22% 19,022,672         24% 26,425,099          26% 36,740,463          31% 53,932,735         40%
IWC = Initial Working Capital. IC = Imported goods component of production inputs. NC = National goods component of production inputs.

                                          - 43 -



Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

         Names                      Title              Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                     Specialty
Lending

Martien van Nieuwkoop Sr. Natural Resource Economist LCSAR   Task Manager before
                                                             negotiations

Pierre Werbrouck      Lead Agricultural Economist     LCSAR  Task Manager from
                                                             Negotiations
Natalia Gomez         Operations Officer              LCSAR Institutional Assessment
Jairo Arboleda        Sr. Social Scientist            LSCEO Social Assessment

Manish Bapna          Economist                              Economic and Financial
                                                             Analysis

Kirsten Oleson        Operations Analyst              LCSES  Environmental
                                                             Assessment
Carmen Nielsen        Procurement Analyst             LCSES Procurement Aspects

Luis Schwarz          Financial Management
                      Specialist                      LCSFM FM assessment

Mariana Montiel       Legal Counsel                   LEGLA Negotiations
Erika Feliz-Castaneda Project Assistant (DC)          LCSES Program Assistant
Clemencia Medina      Project Assistant (Colombia)    LCCCO Program Assistant
Cornelis van der Meer Peer reviewer                    RDV   Marketing
Ryo Eguchi            Peer reviewer                   CAGGR Production
Shelton Davis         Peer reviewer                   LCSES Social Development



Supervision/ICR
Marie-Helene Collion      Lead Economist                   LCSAR Task Manager ICR
Pierre Werbrouck          Sr. Agricultural Economist       LCSAR Task Manager
Natalia Gomez             Rural Development Specialist     LCSAR Co-Task Manager
Jairo A. Arboleda         Consultant                       LCSHS Social Specialist
Ann Jeannette Glauber     Environmental Specialist         LCSEN Environment
Kirsten Oleson            Operations Analyst               LCSEN Environment

Jean-Claude Balcet        Senior Agriculture Economist     LCSAR  Monitoring/Evaluat
                                                                  ion

Jeannette Estupinan       Financial Management Specialist  LCSFM  Financial
                                                                  Management
Jose M. Martinez          Sr Procurement Spec.             LCSPT Procurement
Dianelva Montas           Program Assistant                LCSAR Processing

                                  - 44 -




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks    US$ Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY95                                                           27.80
  FY96                                                          174.31
  FY97                                                           86.64
  FY98                                                           68.93
  FY99                                                           46.01
  FY00                                 25                        58.34
  FY01                                 34                       106.91
  FY02                                 12                        29.75
                        Total:         71                       598.69
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                            0.22
  FY03                                 18                       236.50
  FY04                                 18                        66.37
  FY05                                 25                       101.94
  FY06                                 21                        83.30
  FY07                                 17                        94.48
  FY08                                   6                       25.56
                        Total:        105                       608.37

                                          - 45 -



Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

   1. Econometría Consultores, the consulting firm that evaluated 17 partnerships also
      carried out a beneficiary assessment in two stages: (i) a survey of 297 participants
      of 30 partnerships (139 producers, 34 producer organizations' leaders, 16
      commercial partners, 25 representatives of OGA and 28 representatives of OGR
      as well as 55 public servants); and (ii) a consultation of focus groups. Amongst
      the persons surveyed 60 belonged to partnerships that failed.

Survey Results:

   2. The education level of the producers, the pre-existence of a producer organization
      and training in producer organizational matters are each positively correlated with
      the success of the partnerships.

   3. All survey participants consider that the producers have obtained significant
      benefits. More than 90 percent of the participants perceive that the program's
      process has contributed to empowerment as well as personal and associative
      development. Between 40 and 64 percent see improvements in productivity,
      income and product quality. Those benefits seem to increase over time. More
      than 60 percent perceives that the program has contributed to improvements in
      security. Sixty-seven percent perceive that the program had a positive impact on
      living conditions. Even the members of the partnerships that no longer operate
      consider that the productive partnerships program has provided them with many
      of the above benefits.

   4. The benefits for commercial partners are not as significant as the benefits of the
      producers. The commercial partners consider the increase in production as a
      major benefit. The producers consider that the guarantee of their supply is an
      important benefit for the commercial partners. However, the latter do not see this
      the same way, as they are never sure that the producers will deliver: their concern
      is that they may sell to someone else.

   5. The majority of the interviewees (69%) consider that both partners mutually
      benefit from the partnership, but 17 % thinks that the commercial partners benefit
      more. Indeed many producers who benefit from the partnership also start from a
      very disadvantaged position.

   6. All partnerships have important constraints of a very diverse nature. The success
      or failure of the partnerships and the accumulation of benefits depend on the way
      the partners manage the constraints. One major constraint is security: where the
      partnerships can overcome this constraint, they have a positive spillover effect in
      the whole community. Where they cannot overcome this constraint, it often
      causes failure.

                                          - 46 -


  7. The sustainability of the partnerships depends largely on how well producer
      organizations operate and are managed. The interviewees perceive that there are
      positive results in the operation and management of the organizations, social
      cohesion and financing. Nevertheless, the possibilities that the organizations
      expand beyond their initial size are few: and some see a reduction in the
      membership. This is to be expected as social cohesion and trust among members
      is more difficult to achieve in large organizations. There is a worrying issue: the
      organizations do not uniformly recover the grants (incentivo modular) in a timely
      manner.

  8. Finally: 93 percent of the interviewees would again get involved in the
      partnerships if the whole process would have to start over; even 73 percent of the
      members of failed partnerships state they would be willing to repeat the
      experience. This shows how positive program participants are about the
      partnerships model.

Focus Group Results

  9. The focus group (15 producers) answered some relevant questions following the
      Delphi method. The main results are summarized below:
          It confirmed the results mentioned under paragraph 3 above.
          The process may create some "producer dependency" to state assistance
             and to the consultants that provide technical assistance.
          The involvement of local governments was disappointing, most likely
             because the central government managed the project. The decentralization
             undertaken in the follow-up project would create more local government
             involvement.
          The weak management capacity of the producer organizations is a major
             obstacle to success.
          Another major obstacle seems to be the co-financing from other sources:
             poor timeliness and last minute budget shortfalls in local government.
          Producers have to make formal commitments towards their associations
             before starting the partnership.
          One of the risks for the sustainability of the partnerships is the slow or
             non-reimbursement of the grant (incentivo modular)
          Some changes should be made in the follow-up project but there is no
             consensus on which are the key changes to be introduced.

                                          - 47 -



Annex 6. Summary of Results of the External Impact Evaluations


  1. The three external evaluations of the project's impact have been carried out by
     Econometria Consultores, Bogotá.

  2. The first impact evaluation of 8 partnerships (first cohort) took place in 2005.
     The consulting firm developed a survey methodology comparing the income and
     employment of the target group with those of a control group. It carried out
     extensive surveys in each partnership and control group. The firm, however,
     could not identify significant differences between the two groups. Several
     partnerships in this cohort dated from the period of the project when the
     partnerships were not selected competitively, had weak feasibility studies and
     were still early in implementation. Moreover, selecting relevant control groups
     proved to very difficult. In particular, the methodology could not isolate the
     spillover effects. It was also difficult to identify groups with similar
     agroeconomic conditions, levels of entrepreneurship and products as the ones,
     which had been selected to receive project support. One conclusion however was
     that families participating in partnerships felt significantly more secure than the
     control group families.

  3. The second impact evaluation was based on the recreation of an extensive
     baseline study of five partnerships (cohort II) and two types of control groups:
     the neighboring ones and those located further from the partnership. They carried
     simultaneously an interim evaluation that would have to be repeated several years
     later. This time the spillover effects on neighboring producers were isolated and
     the impacts on income and employment between the target groups and the control
     groups were clearly discernable. Unfortunately, two of the partnerships failed
     after the evaluation. At that time, the IAPA index measuring the adoption by the
     partners of the partnership principles (mutual trust, degree of cohesion and
     participation) was introduced and measured.

  4. In June 2008 Econometría delivered an impact evaluation report of a cohort of
     seven partnerships approved in 2004. The methodology of Cohort 1 was used
     again because of the cost and the time required to re-establish a baseline. Again,
     two types of control group were introduced: (i) a neighboring group of farmers;
     and (ii) a control group living far from the target group. The IAPA was also
     measured. The report presented similar results as under cohort II, including lower
     levels of the IAPA index.

  5. In June 2008, Econometría presented quantitative and qualitative results as well as
     a number of final recommendations.

  6. These evaluations provided important feedback to the project team, but with
     doubt shed by the methodological issues, and also at a high cost of US$525,000

                                          - 48 -


    equivalent. As the survey methodologies were not identical, the three reports are
    not comparable. In addition, it is rather difficult to extract precise quantitative
    results.

7. Evaluating impacts on income and employment are difficult in a partial setting.
    Moreover, as the project lasts only six years and partnerships take time to emerge
    and to be implemented, good evaluation results can only be available after the end
    of the project. If the evaluation results have to be used to justify a follow-up
    project, results after the project's closing come too late. Hence, the evaluations
    have to be carried out earlier in less favorable circumstances and the results are
    less robust.

8. The quantifiable conclusions are presented in the main text of this ICR. Below
    are more qualitative conclusions:

9. Relationship between target population and crops (products) supported under the
    project. The consultants conclude that there needs to be a correlation between the
    financial capacity of the farmers and the type of crops to be supported under the
    project. Small farmers do not normally have the financial investment capacity to
    sustain crops with long-term maturity such as tree crops. The consultants
    recommend that, to reach small farmers, the project should focus on annual crops
    or short-term investments rather than long-term crops.

10. Importance of the producer organizations. Producer organizations with a past
    track record for collaboration perform in general better than the newly established
    organizations, which have a steep and costly learning curve. Where new
    organizations are involved. the OGA that accompany the association should be
    very experienced in assisting POs.

11. Strategic role of commercial relationships. In a rural world where agricultural
    prices fluctuate very heavily with lots of other market uncertainties, the
    partnerships provide security to the producers. Even if the prices are not fixed,
    the producers know there will be a market for their produce and they can
    concentrate on producing the required quantities and qualities. Over time, the
    relationship with the private sector improves and the farmers learn to negotiate
    more equitable trading conditions.

12. Conditions of the economic environment. The macro-economic context in
    particular the agricultural price fluctuations in the international markets, credit
    crunches and currency depreciation and appreciations as well as general climatic
    (rainfall) conditions have an important impact on the operation of the partnerships.
    The partnerships have to learn to take into account the changing environment, but
    too drastic and abrupt changes can also lead to failure.

13. Sustainability of the partnerships. A long period of OGA support is necessary in
    most cases. Where the POs are weak or the partnership relations are deficient,

                                  - 49 -


strong OGA can compensate for many weaknesses and deficiencies, although too
much handholding creates dependency. Where partnerships have performed well
over some period the project could look at expanding the business of the existing
partnerships during the follow-up project.

                                             - 50 -


Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
1. El Gobierno Colombiano y el Banco Mundial       1. The Government and the Bank prepared
   prepararon este proyecto en un plazo muy           the Project over a very long period.
   largo. Desde 1996 se venía identificando el        From 1996 the Project was identified
   Proyecto, con énfasis en procesos de reforma       with an emphasis on land reform. With
   agraria. Con el cambio de gobierno en 1998,        the change in Government in 1998, the
   se dio una nueva orientación hacia el              Project was reoriented towards the
   mercado consolidándose la idea de proyectos        market consolidating the idea of a Project
   productivos en alianza entre el sector privado     to promote partnerships between the
   y los campesinos.      En este momento se          private sector and the small farmers. At
   formularon 5 alianzas piloto en diferentes         that moment, five pilot partnerships were
   regiones del país.    Solamente en abril de        formulated in several regions of the
   2002, cuando faltaban a penas 4 meses para         country. The loan was only signed in
   un nuevo cambio de gobierno, se firmó el           April 2002, four months before another
   contrato de préstamo, y hasta ese momento          change in Government. Only four of the
   solamente cuatro de las cinco alianzas piloto      five partnerships were financed at that
   pudieron ser financiadas, generándose un           moment generating a loss of Project
   gran desgaste en la credibilidad del Proyecto      credibility in those rural communities.
   en esas comunidades, la quinta alianza se          The fifth partnership was only financed
   financió un año después.                           one year later.

2. Por otra parte, el Proyecto permaneció          2. Moreover, during the whole period of
   durante toda su formulación muy lejos del          Project preparation the preparation team
   ente ejecutor del Proyecto, sin un contacto        remained at a far distance from the
   formal a nivel directivo. Cuando ya estaba         implementing agency without formal
   lista la negociación, pocos meses antes de         contact at the upper management level.
   firmar el contrato de préstamo, el ejecutor se     When the negotiations were finalized and
   vio obligado a recibir el equipo del Proyecto,     a few months before the start of the
   a asignarle espacio físico, computadores y         Project, the implementing agency was
   espacio fiscal para una propuesta con la que       obligated to provide physical and fiscal
   no tuvo mayor participación, lo que generó         space to the project creating some
   alguna resistencia a.                              resentment.

3. Afortunadamente, la estrategia de inicio de     3. Fortunately, the initial implementation
   ejecución funcionó de manera que el                strategy helped the Project to be known
   Proyecto     comenzó      a   ser    conocido      in the rural areas. At the outset, the
   regionalmente, inicialmente con propuestas         partnership proposals were poorly
   de alianzas débiles en su formulación pero         formulated but improved during
   que durante su ejecución fueron fortalecidas.      implementation.

4. A partir de enero de 2003, se fortaleció el     4. From January 2003 onwards, the
   equipo de implementación y se prepararon           implementation unit was strengthened
   los términos para la primera convocatoria de       and a first invitation for proposals was
   alianzas productivas inicialmente en 6             launched in six Departments. Up to the
   departamentos. Hasta el 2007, se realizaron        end of 2007, five invitations for
   en total 5 convocatorias de la primera fase        proposals took place; 224 proposals were
   del Proyecto, se formularon 224 propuestas         formulated and 136 were approved. At
   de   las  cuales   136    fueron   finalmente      present, the project enjoys great
   aprobadas. Hoy el Proyecto goza de gran            credibility, commitment from the
   credibilidad, de compromiso por parte de los       implementing actors and an institutional
   ejecutores    y   de    una    infraestructura     structure that allows decentralized

                                             - 51 -


Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
   institucional que le permite su operación de      operation in 27 Departments. For this
   manera desconcentrada en 27 departamentos         reason, the Government and the World
   del país.     Por esta razón el Gobierno          Bank agreed to develop a second phase
   Nacional y el Banco Mundial acordaron             of the Project.
   desarrollar una segunda fase del Proyecto que
   se encuentra iniciando ejecución.               5. The risk factors of the project are: (i) the
                                                      delays in the project formulation which
5. Podemos concluir que los factores de riesgo        were resolved during the preparation of
   del Proyecto son: (i) las demoras en la            the second phase; (ii) the little
   formulación del Proyecto, que se subsanó           involvement of the implementing agency
   ampliamente en la formulación del segundo          during project preparation; (iii) the small
   Proyecto,    (ii) la poca participación del        initial budget allocation during the first
   ejecutor en la fase de formulación del             years of the Project; (iv) the requirement
   Proyecto, (iii) la apropiación de recursos del     to use the budget in a specific budget
   presupuesto de inversión en los primeros           year which does not always correspond
   años del Proyecto mientras iniciaba en forma       to the dynamics of project
   de ejecución de recursos. (iv) la exigencia en     implementation, an aspect that will
   la ejecución del Presupuesto en su año de          become more problematic during the
   apropiación que no está acorde con las             second phase; (v) the changes in the
   dinámicas    propias    de   cada    proyecto      Departmental and Municipal
   productivo, aspecto que se acentuará durante       Governments that make it necessary to
   al segunda fase del Proyecto. (v) los cambios      strengthen the dissemination and
   de    los   gobiernos    departamentales    y      communications strategy of the Project;
   municipales, que obligan a reforzar la             (vi) the changes in the national
   estrategia de divulgación y presentación del       government which can modify the policy
   Proyecto. (vi) los cambios en los gobiernos        priorities and orientations (although 2006
   nacionales que pueden modificar prioridades        was an exception); (vii) the delays in the
   y    orientaciones    de    política,  aunque      formulation of the partnerships which
   excepcionalmente este cambio no se produjo         discourage the partners, a factor that
   en el 2006, (vii) las demoras en la                hopefully will be corrected in the second
   formulación de las alianzas que desmotivan a       phase.
   los proponentes, factor que se espera corregir
   en    el  nuevo     esquema    que   se   está  6.  The success factors of the Project are:
   implementando en la segunda fase.                  (i) clarity, a single objective and
                                                      simplicity in the project concept; (ii)
6. Los factores de éxito del Proyecto son: (i)        learning capacity and flexibility to
   claridad, objetivo único y simplicidad en el       correct mistakes in the operation of the
   concepto del Proyecto, (ii) capacidad de           Project; (iii) continuity in the team
   aprendizaje y flexibilidad para corregir           implementing the Project; (iv)
   errores en la operación del Proyecto, (iii)        strengthening of the regional institutional
   continuidad en el equipo de implementación         capacity through the operators; (v)
   del Proyecto, (iv) fortalecimiento de las          linkage and active participation of the
   capacidades regionales a través de los             Departmental Governments through the
   operadores, (v) vinculación y participación        Secretariats for Agriculture; (vi) strict
   activa de los gobiernos departamentales a          adherence to the procedures of
   través de las Secretarías de Agricultura, (vi)     invitations to submit proposals,
   cumplimiento estricto de los procedimientos        evaluations and selection of proposals;
   de convocatorias, de evaluaciones y de             (vii) continuity and support by the
   selección de las propuestas, (vii) continuidad     MADR; (viii) perfect coordination
   y respaldo permanente de las directivas del        between the World Bank task team and

                                             - 52 -


Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
   ejecutor, (viii) perfecta coordinación entre el   the implementation team.
   equipo del Proyecto en el Banco Mundial y
   el equipo de implementación en el ente          7. During Project preparation (1996-2001),
   ejecutor.                                          the World Bank team together with the
                                                      Government developed a somewhat
7. Durante la formulación de Proyecto, entre el       complex project proposal difficult to
   año 1996 y 2001, el equipo del Banco               implement as this unfortunately happens
   Mundial, desarrolló, conjuntamente con el          often. From 2001 onwards and in a
   Gobierno, una propuesta de Proyecto un poco        speedy manner, thanks to changes in the
   compleja y muy difícil de ejecutar, como           Government and Bank teams, was it
   ocurre       con        alguna      frecuencia     possible to simplify the operational and
   desafortunadamente. A partir del 2001 y de         conceptual framework to arrive at Project
   manera muy rápida, gracias a cambios               negotiations with a more practical and
   internos en los equipos tanto del Banco como       implementable Project. From that
   del Gobierno, se logró simplificar el marco        moment onwards, the support, trust,
   operativo y conceptual para llegar a la            integration, coherence and commitment
   negociación del Préstamo en noviembre de           of the Bank team under the leadership of
   2001, con un Proyecto más concreto y               the task team leader, made it possible
   ejecutable.   A partir de este momento, el         that the Project was implemented in a
   apoyo, confianza, integración, coherencia y        very satisfactory manner for the National
   compromiso del equipo del Banco liderado           Government. The continuity of this team
   por su gerente, lograron que el Proyecto se        was decisive in the achievement of the
   ejecutara de manera muy satisfactoria para el      objectives. During the whole Project, the
   Gobierno Nacional. La continuidad de este          National Government, through the
   equipo hasta la fecha fue decisiva en el logro     implementation team, felt that it had the
   de los objetivos. Durante todo el Proyecto, el     World Bank's support.
   Gobierno Nacional, a través del equipo de
   implementación, se sitió acompañado y           8. The quality of the Bank's contribution
   respaldado por el Banco Mundial.                   was excellent for the development of the
                                                      Project. On the one hand, the technical
8. La calidad de la contribución del Banco fue        assistance received by the Government's
   excelente para el desarrollo del Proyecto. La      implementation team as well as the
   asistencia técnica que recibió el Gobierno         orientation and trust in its
   Nacional,     a   través    del   equipo    de     implementation capacity made it possible
   implementación, y la orientación y confianza       to carry out the preparation studies of the
   en su desempeño, le permitieron, por una           second phase, building local capacity to
   parte, desarrollar los estudios de apoyo a la      formulate this type of projects. On the
   formulación de la segunda fase del mismo,          other hand, the team was allowed to
   generando     la  capacidad    nacional   para     participate in the development of similar
   formular este tipo de proyectos.      Por otra     projects in Panama, Guatemala, Bolivia,
   parte, le permitieron divulgar el Proyecto y       Perú, Ecuador, Haiti, Angola and
   participar en la formulación de proyectos          Vietnam. The Productive Partnerships
   similares en Panamá, Guatemala, Bolivia,           model is now part of the vocabulary of
   Perú, Ecuador, Haití, Angola y Vietnam. El         the managers of agricultural and
   modelo de Alianzas Productivas hace parte          livestock projects in the country.
   del lenguaje de los ejecutores de proyectos
   productivos agropecuarios en el país.

                                          - 53 -


Comments on the Draft ICR

Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents


MADR, Apoyo a Alianzas Productivas, Informe Final de Gestión, Septiembre de 2008

Econometría Consultores, Evaluación de Impactos del Proyecto de Apoyo Alianzas
Productivas, Cohorts 1, 2 and 3 and final report.

Econometría Consultores, Beneficiary Assessment, February 15, 2009

FAO/CP, Economic and Financial Analysis, January 31, 2009

       - 54 -


MAP

