                                 Document of
                                World Bank




                                                  Report No.: 99886




            PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                        REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

      PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS SUPPORT PROJECT, PHASE I

                          (LOAN NO. IBRD 70970)


                               October 26, 2015




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                  ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit = Colombian Pesos (Co$)

2002                     US$1.00                   Co$2,844
2003                     US$1.00                   Co$2,771
2004                     US$1.00                   Co$2,404
2005                     US$1.00                   Co$2,286
2006                     US$1.00                   Co$2,225
2007                     US$1.00                   Co$1,972
2008                     US$1.00                   Co$2,200


Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CIAT        International Center for Tropical Agriculture
CPS         Country Partnership Strategy
DNP         National Planning Department
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IAPA        Index measuring Social Cohesion
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IEG         Independent Evaluation Group
IEGPS       IEG Public Sector Evaluation
INCODER     Colombia Institute for Rural Development
INCORA      Colombian Institute for Land Tenure Reform
IRR         Internal Rate of Return
MADR        Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
NPV         Net Present Value
OGA         Local Management Organization
OGR         Regional Management Organization
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PPAR        Project Performance Assessment Report
PO          Producer Organization
SA          Departmental Secretariats of Agriculture
SISBEN      Database System of Potential Beneficiaries of Social Programs
TA          Technical Assistance

Fiscal Year

Government:              January 1- December 31

Director-General, Independent Evaluation                    :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                      :   Mr. Marvin Taylor-Dormond
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                       :   Ms. Marie Gaarder
Task Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                  :   Ms. Lauren Kelly
Consultant, Author                                              Ms. Ebru Karamate
                                                                    v



Contents
Abbreviations and Acronyms ............................................................................................. ii
Principal Ratings ............................................................................................................... vii
Key Staff Responsible....................................................................................................... vii
Preface................................................................................................................................ ix
Executive Summary ........................................................................................................... xi
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
   Methodology ................................................................................................................... 3
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 3
   Project Objectives and Design ........................................................................................ 3
   Relevance of Objectives ................................................................................................. 4
   Project Design ................................................................................................................. 5
   Monitoring and Evaluation ............................................................................................. 6
   Relevance of Design ....................................................................................................... 8
3. Key Features of the Implementation Experience ............................................................ 9
   Safeguards Compliance ................................................................................................ 10
   Financial Management and Procurement...................................................................... 11
4. Efficacy ......................................................................................................................... 11
   Analysis of the Partnership Types, by commodity ....................................................... 13
   Achievement of Project Objectives .............................................................................. 16
       Unintended Outcomes ............................................................................................... 20
5. Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 20
6. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 21
   Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 22
       Learning from Failure ............................................................................................... 22
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 25
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 27
7. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 28
References ......................................................................................................................... 29
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 31
Annex B. List of Persons Met ........................................................................................... 35
This report was prepared by Ms. Ebru Karamate, Consultant, IEG. The assessment was overseen by Ms.
Lauren Kelly, Senior Evaluation Officer, Peer Reviewed by Jack W. Van Holst Pellekaan, Senior
Consultant, and Panel Reviewed by Christopher Nelson, Senior Evaluation Officer in the Independent
Evaluation Group of the World Bank. Marie Charles provided administrative support.
                                                          vi


Annex C. Borrower Comments......................................................................................... 37



Boxes
Box 1: The Anatomy of Failed Partnership ...................................................................... 24


Tables
Table 1: Partnerships and Proposals Supported by the Project......................................... 12
Table 2: Partnership Type, by Commodity Type.............................................................. 13
Table 3: Composition of Value of Agricultural Production (1991-2012) (percent) ......... 13
Table 4: Additional Employment Created Through the Project ....................................... 17
Table 5: Mapping the Location of Project Beneficiaries .................................................. 18
Table 6: Failed Partnerships by Crop................................................................................ 22

Figures
Figure 1: Outcome Indicators (Original and Revised) ........................................................ 7
                                                              vii


Principal Ratings
                                       ICR*                         ICR Review*                       PPAR
 Outcome                            Satisfactory                     Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory
 Risk to                            **Likely                           **Likely                        Significant
 Development                     (Sustainability)                   (Sustainability)
 Outcome
 Bank Performance                   Satisfactory                     Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory
 Borrower                           Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
 Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR Review is an
intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
                                                                Division Chief/
 Project                Task Manager/Leader                     Sector Director                   Country Director
 Appraisal
                           Pierre Werbrouck               J. Redwood / M. Cackler                Olivier Lafourcade

 Completion             Marie-Helene Collion                   Ethel Sennhauser                Axel van Trotsenburg
                                                          viii


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                                ix


Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) of the Colombia Productive
Partnerships Support Project (IBRD-70970) which was approved on January 22, 2002, became
effective on May 15, 2002, and closed on September 30, 2008. The project performance
assessment considers, but does not formally assess, the progress made under the follow-on
Colombia Second Rural Productive Partnerships Project (IBRD-74840) that was approved on
August 21, 2007 and became effective on January 17, 2008. The Second Phase project closed
on June 30th, 2015. The total project cost at appraisal was US$52.32 million. The IBRD loan
amount was US$32.00 million of which US$22.00 million was disbursed by the extended
closing date of September 30, 2008. The final total project cost was US$30.40 million. Project
financing was reduced considerably in 2003 due to slow implementation and a reduction in the
borrower contribution due to unanticipated shortfalls in the Government budget.

IEG selected this project for a field assessment for three reasons. First, to verify that the World
Bank’s activities are producing anticipated and expected results. Second, to assess risk to
development outcomes, or sustainability, over time. And third, to support an improvement in
directions, policies and procedures through the dissemination of lessons drawn for future Bank
support in the area of rural development in Colombia and globally. The assessment will also
be included in IEG’s Macro-Evaluation of the World Bank Group’s Support for Inclusive
Growth of the Rural Non-Farm Economy (forthcoming).

This assessment is based on a desk review of project documents, including the: Project
Appraisal Document, legal documents, Implementation Status Results Reports, Aid-Memoires
and Back to Office reports, Reporting on Environment and Social compliance, and the
Implementation Completion and Results Report. The IEG assessment also utilizes the
Management Information System, Monitoring and Evaluation Database, and external impact
assessments of the project. A Field Mission was conducted between the dates of February 7th
– 22nd, 2015 that included interviews with Government officials, former project staff, and
implementing NGOs. Site visits to seven Producer Organizations located in six separate rural
departments and two private commercial partners were also conducted to obtain beneficiary
feedback. Interviews were also held in Washington DC with relevant Bank staff.

The mission expresses its appreciation for the time, attention and support of the Borrower and
all concerned parties, particularly the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and the
Project Implementation Unit. It also wishes to thank Gipsy Bocanegra and Cristina Gutierrez
Barragan, who provided research and logistical support for the mission. The assessment was
Peer Reviewed by Jack W. Van Holst Pellekaan, Senior Agricultural Specialist and Consultant
in IEG, and Panel Reviewed by Christopher Nelson, Senior Evaluation Officer, IEG. A full list
of persons met is provided in Annex B.
                                             x


Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft report were sent to government
officials and agencies. Government comments – taken into account in making revisions to this
assessment - are attached in full in Annex C of this document.
                                               xi


Executive Summary
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) of the Colombia Productive
Partnerships Support Project (IBRD-70970), which was approved on January 22, 2002 and
which became effective on May 15, 2002. The total project cost at appraisal was US$52.32
million. The Credit was US$32.00 million, out of which US$22.00 million was disbursed by
the extended closing date of September 30, 2008. The final total project cost was US$30.40
million. Following a request by the Government in 2003, project financing was reduced. The
Government reduced its contribution by US$11.9 million and consequently the World Bank
loan reduced its credit by US$10 million. The reasons provided for the reduction in borrower
financing included slower than anticipated implementation and severe pressures on the
Government’s fiscal situation.

The objective of the Colombia Productive Partnerships Support Project - the relevance of
which is rated Substantial by this assessment --was to generate income, create employment
and promote social cohesion of poor rural communities in an economic and environmentally
sustainable manner through the development and implementation of a demand-driven,
productive partnership scheme with the private sector. The objective of reactivating the rural
economy was aligned with the aim of the peace building processes in Colombia’s conflict
affected rural areas. Integrating the rural poor into the productive economy, especially in areas
effected by conflict and violence, was a top priority of the Government of Colombia at the time
of project design. The project objective relevantly aimed to reach deep into Colombia’s poor
rural communities- those remote communities lacked access to markets, agro-processers and
buyers, and rural finance. The objective statement could have been strengthened by clarifying
the definition and scope of the project’s social cohesion aim.

The Relevance of Project Design is rated Modest. The designed components and project
processes were partially consistent with the stated objectives and the results framework. The
project set out to achieve its objective by helping low-income farmers to improve production
of agricultural crops, and to market output collectively - thereby helping them to increase
incomes and create employment opportunities. However, in order to verify the generation of
incomes and the creation of employment for poor rural communities - greater attention should
have been paid to the monitoring and tracking of employment and income generation outcomes
for the rural poor within the groups organized within the project targeted communities. The
implementation experience also revealed that more information, awareness raising and training
was needed for the commercial partners to work more effectively with the project supported
small-scale farmer organizations. The financial needs of the agro-processors were also not
adequately considered with regard to the capital investments needed as a result of the supply
increase from the smallholders. Project design could have also benefitted from specific and
differentiated capacity development for both the producer organizations and commercial
partners, including in areas where there was the trust deficit was higher.
                                               xii


The extent to which the objective of generating employment of poor rural communities
was achieved is rated Substantial. As reported in the external impact evaluation, employment
levels increased between 5 to 50 percent within 17 sampled Producer Organizations, varying
according to partnership type. Further evidence is provided by the project’s economic analysis
conducted by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) that reported that,
on average, incomes increased by 70 percent (matching the project’s revised target and
exceeding the appraisal target of 50 percent). On average, additional employment generation
due to the project was estimated by FAO to be 0.8 person/year/farm. Feedback from
beneficiary interviews conducted after project close reaffirmed these project findings.
Beneficiaries attested that support from the project enabled them to hire additional labor,
mostly for off-farm activities. Like the reporting on incomes, while there is substantial
evidence that the project supported additional employment in rural poor areas, a lack of
disaggregated data limited the assessment’s ability to know whether the additional employment
had an impact on the rural poor.

The extent to which the objective of generating income of poor rural communities was
achieved is rated Substantial. The project helped to establish productive partnerships for 136
producer organizations, of which 85 were still in existence seven years after project closing
(the cumulative failure rate at the time of this assessment was 37.5 percent). The project
provided, on average, US$1,681 of credit to each of the 11,714 farming families targeted. An
independent impact assessment of 20 partnerships showed that for 17 of these, the average
income of smallholders in the partnerships increased between 12 and 32 percent. Issues with
the methodology used to construct the control groups prevented a comparison with non-project
beneficiaries however. A separate economic analysis conducted by the United Nations Food
and Agriculture Organization, using a random stratified sample of 23 productive partnerships,
reported that, on average, participant incomes increased by 77 percent during the project period
but with significant variation depending on the commodity associated with the partnership.
For the 62 percent of the partnerships that survived, it is likely that members are continuing to
benefit from the increased incomes derived from engagement in the partnerships. However,
since the project did not include disaggregated reporting of benefits, it is unclear whether the
poor are equally benefitting from the reported increases in income, or whether the partnerships
that have survived were equally comprised (of rural poor participants) as the partnerships that
have failed along the way.

Poverty and Environmental Sustainability were cross-cutting themes, embedded in the
objective statement of this project. While the project did not collect HH level data on
poverty, incomes or employment, it targeted communities in areas that were, on average, poor.
Studies conducted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development indicate that the
majority of persons participating in the project were likely to be poor. By comparing the
project beneficiary groups (for both Phase I and II of the project) to the Social Welfare Roster
(Red Unidos), the study found that 75 percent of the persons registered as participants in the
                                              xiii


productive partnership projects were also participating in the social welfare programs. Of
these, 61 percent were also physically located in remote poor rural areas, and a third of this
group was registered as poorest of the poor.

Environmental sustainability was mainstreamed in the project, but there is a need to
continue to support strengthened environment management capacity and mainstreaming
in the agriculture sector. In both the ICR and subsequently in a report provided to the PPAR
team, there was a concern expressed about environmental compliance at the subproject level.
However subsequent comments received from the Bank and the Government revealed that
every sub-project included environmental screening and a full environmental plan and that for
the 85 partnership that still exist, 81 percent continue to implement their environmental plan.
The Final Project Management Report concluded that it is important to broaden environment
management engagement, beyond the environment experts, to include sensitization of the
project’s participating communities.

The extent to which the objective of promoting social cohesion of poor rural communities
was achieved is rated Modest. The project used the term social cohesion in various ways, at
times referring to (a) the cohesion within the producer organizations and between these
organizations and commercial partners, and (b) the general cohesiveness of society in a country
affected by violence and conflict. This affected the ability of the project to ring-fence its
definition and to apply appropriate measurement tools. While no baseline was established, the
project measured social cohesion during implementation with the use of a Social Partnerships
Index (Impact Evaluation, 2008) that was designed to unilaterally capture farmers’ perceptions
about the degree of social cohesion within producer groups and between these groups and their
commercial partners. Using this methodology, the project reported that only 35 percent of
partnerships received an adequate score (i.e. scores higher than the 2nd quintile) while the
project, as designed, had aimed for 70 percent. The low scores are attributed to the lack of
mutual trust and lack of direct contact between producers and commercial partners. The
increasing failure rate of the producer groups over time (from 13 percent to 37.5 percent) could
have been in part influenced by these dynamics.

Economic efficiency is rated Modest, mainly due to weaknesses in reporting. The
economic analysis conducted by FAO at project close of 23 partnerships reported that the
project achieved an internal rate of return of, on average, 20 percent (with a high variation
between partnerships). Sixty-nine percent of partnerships had an economic rate of return higher
than the discount rate of 12 percent, 31 percent had an economic rate of return lower than 12
percent and 13 percent had a negative IRR. There were shortcomings associated with the
assessment of the efficiency of this project in the ICR however. The methodology used to
conduct the rate or return analysis used recall data to determine project attributable change in
income over time. Income data was collected at the level of the group, so that average incomes
were estimated against the earnings of a few of the group members, or estimated on the basis
of these members’ understanding of the average change in income for all members over time.
                                               xiv


Another area related to efficiency that deserves further attention and study is the value for
money associated with this project’s service delivery model. On average, it cost the project
US$657 per family to form a partnership (including all project management support) to deliver
US$280 of additional income per family in the first year, with a projected additional US$2,300
annual incremental income within three to four years after project close. Given the failure rates,
the cost estimates collected at project close, as well as actual gross sales figures provided by
the Government, the basis for the projected incremental benefits per family of US$2,300 is
weak.

The Outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory. While the project objective is rated
substantially relevant, and while the project substantially met two out of the three project aims,
design – rated modest - had several weaknesses and efficiency is rated modest owing mainly
to the insufficient methods that were used to measure and report on the economic analysis at
project’s close. Value for money also appears to be somewhat undermined by the costs of
service delivery compared to the estimated gross revenues attributable to the project support.
Overall, the project modestly achieved efforts to promote social cohesion of poor rural
communities, as determined by an index implemented by the project.

Bank Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory, based on a moderately satisfactory
quality at entry and satisfactory supervision. The model of productive partnerships - that
brings together small scale farmer producer organizations and commercial entities with the
support of Government and civil society was a new and innovative operation. The validity of
the model was borne out by the implementation of a pilot project including 6 partnerships that
were successfully implemented. For these to be implemented at scale, more attention was
needed for capacity building and technical assistance, especially in the absence of robust
extension services. Quality at entry could have also benefitted from a deeper investigation of
the needs of commercial buyers to ensure more effective market relevant partnerships. A
project designed to measurably increase incomes and employment, quality at entry was also
weakened by the absence of a baseline to track project attributable change. The project’s social
cohesion aim required greater specificity and more meaningfully tools to monitor, track and
correct for issues related trust or cooperation challenges that undermined effectiveness at the
group and project level. Project supervision was flexible, adaptive and responsive. While
weaknesses in the monitoring and evaluation system were not wholly corrected, supervision
made several adjustments in response to the project mid-term review that improved
performance. These included an improvement of partnership profiles through simplification of
requirements and attention to strengthening the capacity of local governments. After mid-term,
the project also increased the participation of the private sector through prioritizing projects
that had a higher private sector investment contribution.

Borrower Performance is rated Satisfactory based on satisfactory performance by the
Government and the Implementing Agency. The National Planning Department and the
Ministry of Agriculture fully complied with the project’s legal covenants. The Ministry of
                                                xv


Agriculture recruited a Project Implementation Unit made up of experienced and committed
experts, most of whom stayed with the project and provided continuity in project management
and implementation. On the other hand, faced with an unexpected deterioration in its fiscal
position caused by a combination of endogenous and exogenous factors the Government
reduced its financial contribution. Despite the considerable reduction in financing, the Project
Implementation Unit, in tandem with the Bank, helped to effectively oversee implementation
of the core aspects of the project. The project’s financial management and procurement
performance were satisfactory. The Government’s commitment and strong interest in the
productive alliance model was further demonstrated by their support for a second phase.

Lessons

In Productive Partnership Projects, sufficient attention needs to be paid to the needs of
both farmers and buyers. In the case of this first phase of the Colombia Productive
Partnership project, more attention was paid to the productive capacity of the smallholders than
to the commercial entities, the latter requiring greater awareness about the new opportunities
for engagement created by the project.

Revolving credit mechanisms in rural areas should be designed in line with the capacity
of the user. In the first phase Colombia Productive Partnership project, revolving funds were
an effective tool for mature producer organizations for accessing essential financing.
Established relationships and trust within existing organizations led to the effective use of these
funds. Less mature partnerships however were unable to effectively utilize these fund
mechanisms. Given the very limited repayment rates of immature partner organizations, a grant
scheme would have been a more relevant tool, as the project’s design had originally proposed.

Producer Alliances require a differentiation in design that takes into account trust,
relationships, and maturity to determine the level of value added that a productive
partnership project is likely to generate. Coffee producers, for example, already had mature
linkages through the Federation of Coffee Producers, while some other alliances had access to
Government financing. In these cases the value added by the project may have been minimal,
and the funds may have been put to better use in less mature producer organizations. Likewise,
the project could have been grounded in a better understanding of the effects that conflict has
on trust when forming alliances in conflicted affected areas.

Productive partnership projects are more likely to succeed when they are part of an
integrated rural development approach. Such an approach would include attention to
binding constraints in the rural space that limit the income earning potential of the farmer
alliances. In Colombia, these constraints included poor rural infrastructure (storage roads and
power) and weak extension services. These constraints were particularly felt by productive
partnerships engaged in the production of perishable items, where the lack of cold storage and
the high costs of transport limited their income earning opportunities.
xvi
                                              1


1. Background and Context
Background

1.1     Colombia’s diverse climate and topography permits the cultivation of a wide
variety of crops. The country’s main agricultural products are coffee, cocoa, sugar cane,
coconuts, bananas, plantains, rice, corn, cotton, tobacco, cassava, flowers, beef and dairy
cattle. The sector is dominated by small-scale productive units with roughly 68 percent of
owners possessing land plots that are 5 hectares or smaller representing just 4 percent of
all agricultural land. Less than one percent of farmers (0.4 percent), on the other hand,
possess land holdings that are 500 hectares or greater that together account for 47 percent
of all agricultural land use. Small family farms typically produce annual crops (wheat,
potato, beans, and vegetables) as well as perennial crops (cassava, cocoa, plantain, fruit,
and panela cane). The links between smallholders and agro-industry are most notable in
the cases of coffee, milk, and palm oil, but they have also been intensifying for some fruits,
panela, and potatoes.

1.2      The development of the smallholder sector has been hampered by several
constraints. While access to electricity is high (94 percent of the total population had access
to electricity in 2009), road connectivity is poor, especially with regard to secondary and
tertiary roads critically needed for expanding commercial opportunities in the agricultural
sector. One fifth of the secondary road network and one third of the tertiary network are
characterized as “bad” (OECD, 2015 a). Since appraisal, the mobile phone network has
expanded considerably, with 98 percent of the population now having access to a mobile
phone. However only 40 percent of the population has access to the internet, with access
rates in rural area being much lower, affecting farmers’ ability to access critical commodity
pricing and other types of market information.

1.3    At the time of project appraisal Colombia’s rural areas had various difficulties as
summarized below: untapped agricultural potential primarily due to violence in rural areas,
poverty, conflict and rural violence, unequal access to land and lack of access to finance.

1.4    Agriculture. Although agriculture’s share in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was
declined from 18 percent in 1990 to 14 percent 1999, at appraisal, agriculture employed 23
percent of the labor force and also contributed to 28 percent of foreign exchange earnings
(PAD, p. 4). Colombia had abundant unutilized lands in spite of its rich natural resource
endowments. In 2001, of the 18 million ha of potential agricultural land, only 4 million ha
was cultivated. Between 1985 and 2001, about 1 million ha of land was converted from
cropping to grazing areas. This dynamics are linked to the high level of violence that was
taking place in the country’s rural areas that stymied investment in agriculture and also
limited the delivery of agricultural services (Agricultural and Rural Competitiveness
Report, 2003).

1.5    Poverty. In the late 1990s, the extreme poverty rate in Colombia was high at 20
percent (1997) and the incidence of poverty was 3 times higher in rural areas (CAS FY 97).
The poverty rates increased further in early 2000s, with rural poverty at a level of 75
percent and extreme rural poverty at about 30 percent (OECD, 2015 a). Income inequality
was also an issue with a Gini Coefficient of 0.50 (Poverty Study, 2000). A farmer
                                              2


household survey on agricultural producers was carried out as part of the project
preparation process and found that poverty among this group was approximately 80
percent. Seventy percent of the population that had incomes below subsistence levels lived
in rural areas.

1.6     Unequal Access to Land. Colombia’s agricultural landholdings have been highly
concentrated in the hands of a small proportion of the population for hundreds of years.
Although, more than US$3.5 billion was spent on land reform between 1961 and 1999,
resulting in 1.5 million hectares being redistributed to 102,000 rural families, further
concentration of landholdings has occurred (Agricultural and Rural Competitiveness
Report, 2003). In the early 2000s, land inequality in Colombia was one of the highest in
the World, with a Gini coefficient of 0.85 (Deininger, Lavadenz, 2004); about 78.8 percent
of farms had less than 10 ha of land (Agricultural and Rural Competitiveness Report,
2003). Inefficient rural land markets, as well as benefits provided to large-scale holdings,
through tax advantages, access to credit, and inflation protection, have perpetuated this
pattern of inequality and misuse (Agricultural and Rural Competitiveness Report, 2003).
Unequal concentration of land has produced widespread land underutilization. Larger
holdings had been extensively used for livestock operations and only 30 percent of land
suitable for agriculture was utilized for crops (Deininger, Lavadenz, 2004).

1.7     Rural Violence. The conflict and political struggles between Liberals and
Conservatives in Colombia has been an ongoing phenomenon. In the 1960s, guerilla
movements promoting agrarian land reform routinely attacked government forces in rural
areas. In the 1980s, the dynamics of the conflict changed when the onset of the illegal drug
trade and right wing paramilitary groups started to clash with guerilla movements. This
resulted in approximately 1.9 million people being displaced in the 1990s (PAD page 4).
In the early 2000s, violent events and criminal activities started to decline due to increased
military and police-force power and demobilization of paramilitary groups. (Fernandez,
Ibanez, Pena, 2011, page 10-11).

1.8      Armed conflict, population displacement, and the cultivation of illicit crops has
negatively affected agricultural production, its contribution to growth, and smallholder
welfare. A report by OECD (2015 a.) has found that these factors have reduced agricultural
GDP by 3-6 percent. The conflict further exacerbated land inequality by shifting more of
it into the hands of drug traffickers and the elite. Land holdings over 500 ha increased from
32 percent of total land in 1984 to 45 percent in 1997. (PAD page 4). Cropping patterns
during these violent periods were also affected as small farmers reverted to less risky, but
less profitable, crop choices.

1.9     A Lack of Access to Finance. Access to finance is limited and segmented in rural
areas. At the time of project design, it was estimated that roughly 8 percent of rural
households had access to formal credit and access to deposit services was about 20 percent.
At the time of design, the rural credit market was also very fragmented: Banks typically
only loaned large amounts to large- and – medium-scale farmers. Public support to
agricultural credit mainly benefited the well off. According to the PAD (p. 5), lack of credit
was a particular issue for small scale farmers who had little or no collateral and for those
producers interested in making long-term investments. And despite the existence of 80
                                             3


percent government guarantees on loans to farmers, banks were still reluctant to lend to
this group.

Project Context

1.10 The origins of the project date to the mid-1990s when the Borrower and the Bank
assessed the possibility of a market-based land reform project. But after the elections, in
1999, the new Government changed priorities. The Borrower decided to drop the idea of a
market-based land reform project - in spite of a successful NGO led pilot experience – and
expressed interest instead in a project linking farmers to market. This decision coincided
at the time with the thrust of the Government’s countrywide program geared towards
promoting agricultural value chains. The Productive Partnership Project was designed to
align with this new policy initiative. The project design has since been replicated in many
other countries in the Latin America Region. Currently there are about 18 World Bank
projects in Latin America Region that utilize the productive partnership approach.

Methodology

1.11 The project performance assessment applied a mixed-methods approach that
included a desk review, interviews with the Government, project and Bank staff, a review
of available evaluative evidence (evaluations conducted by Econometria Consultares,
FAO, the Center for Tropical Agriculture, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development) and, to a limited extent, beneficiary feedback. In order to learn lessons about
project implementation, IEG conducted group interviews of a non-representative sample
of 7 of the 23 Producer Organizations that were randomly selected from the groups
interviewed by the economic analysis exercise. The group of seven included one failed
partnership. Time and resource constraints limited the assessment’s engagement with
producer organizations. Two commercial agro-processor partners were nevertheless
interviewed to obtain a better sense of this constituencies concerns and needs. Regional
implementing agencies and NGOs involved in the project were also interviewed. In
Bogota, the team met with the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD)
as well as with the Project Implementation Unit staff in MARD, the Ministry of Finance,
donors, the Impact Evaluation Consulting Company and the Trust Fund Company,
FIDUCOLDEX.


2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
Project Objectives and Design
2.1     The Loan Agreement (p. 24) and the Project Appraisal Document (p. 2) stated the
same project development objectives, which were "to generate income, create employment
and promote social cohesion of poor rural communities in an economic and
environmentally sustainable manner through the development and implementation of a
demand-driven, productive partnership scheme with the private sector.” IEG divides this
objective into the following three sub-objectives and treats the economic and
environmental sustainability of these aims as cross-cutting themes:
                                             4


   1. Generate incomes for poor rural communities
   2. Generate employment for poor rural communities
   3. Promote social cohesion for poor rural communities.

2.2     Targeting: The PAD noted that “the project was to contribute to: (i) reactivating
the rural economy; (ii) improving the living conditions of poor rural inhabitants; and (iii)
generating an enabling environment for peace” (page 2). The project was also described
in the PAD as a poverty targeted intervention. The target population consisted of “low -
income smallholders with underexploited land plots, rural day laborers without land and
displaced families” (PAD, p. 13).

2.3     Definition: The project aim was to be achieved by supporting the development and
implementation of demand-driven, productive partnership schemes with the private sector
A "productive partnership " is defined as "any collaborative arrangement between an
organization of small producers and an agribusiness or commercial enterprise with the
objective to improve productivity and marketing efficiency in a particular value chain"
(ICR, p. 1).

Relevance of Objectives
2.4    The objective of generating income, creating employment and promoting social
cohesion of poor rural communities in an economic and environmentally sustainable
manner (through the development and implementation of a demand-driven, productive
partnership scheme with the private sector) was and remains substantially relevant.

2.5     The objective of reactivating the rural economy was aligned with the aim of the
peace building processes in Colombia’s conflict affected rural areas. Integrating the rural
poor into the productive economy, especially in areas effected by conflict and violence,
was a top priority of the Government of Colombia at the time of project design. The project
objective relevantly aimed to reach deep into Colombia’s poor rural communities- those
remote communities lacked access to markets, agro-processers and buyers, and rural
finance. The objective statement could have been strengthened by clarifying the definition
and scope of the project’s social cohesion aim.

2.6     Alignment with Country Strategies: Specifically, the project development
objectives were aligned with the 1997 Country Assistance Strategy which focused on
overall growth, poverty reduction, improving social conditions and sustainability of
development actions, although the project was not specified as part of its lending program.
The project was included in the base-case lending program for Colombia in the CAS
Progress Report (R99-201) that was presented to the Board on November 18, 1999. It
contributed to the CAS objectives by helping to improve agricultural production geared
towards increasing the incomes and creating employment opportunities for the small scale
agricultural sector and thereby promoting rural development. During the life of the project
the objectives remained relevant to subsequent Country Strategies. The project
development objectives were closely linked to the Poverty Alleviation and Equity of
Opportunity Pillar of the CPS FY08-12 that aimed to support agriculture competitiveness
and rural poverty reduction. IEG’s Country Partnership Completion Review of Colombia
                                              5


(2011) rated the outcome of this pillar as Moderately Satisfactory, noting that the
intervention was overly ambitious and the M&E framework was weak.

2.7     Alignment with Government Priorities: The project development objectives
were aligned with the priorities set out in Colombia's National Development Plans 2002-
2006 and 2006-2010 and the Ministry of Agriculture's Agro–Ingreso Seguro Program
(2007). The Government's rural strategy (2002-2006) included support for vertical
integration in supply and marketing chains; strengthening the role of the private sector in
providing services to producers; creating employment opportunities in rural areas;
supporting improved access to land for small farmers; and providing basic infrastructure
and services in rural areas. The Government’s follow up rural strategy was to integrate the
rural sector into the national economy by increasing its competitiveness, equality and
sustainability as well as by pursuing a peace process. The Government‘s policy framework
had four pillars: (i) providing incentives for rural capital investments; (ii) subsidizing land
improvements; (iii) reducing risks through crop insurance; and (iv) increasing access to
rural finance. The objectives of the 2007 “Agriculture Income Security Program” were to
improve the competitiveness and productivity of the agricultural sector and to contribute
to reducing inequalities in rural areas.

Project Design
2.8     The project was designed to unblock barriers for small farmers by linking them
with commercial buyers. It aimed to increase the quality and consistency of the agricultural
outputs within a select group of agricultural partnerships, to generate increased demand,
value added and higher prices, and associated, increased incomes and additional
employment. It aimed to do this in poor rural areas. The project provided grants and
technical assistance to producer organizations to support increased investment in farm
infrastructure, machinery, equipment, inputs, and labor, etc. These grants were intended
to increase and improve the quality of production of farm goods which in turn would
support more effective and sustainable producer linkages.

The project included three components:

    Preparation of Productive Partnership Sub-projects (appraisal estimate,
     US$6.1 million; actual cost: US$3.1 million, or 51 percent of appraisal
     estimate) The component financed technical assistance and training for activities
     that were associated with: (a) Information sharing about the project to stakeholders;
     (b) Mobilization and screening of applications; (c) Pre-investments studies, which
     are ex-ante evaluation of sub-project proposals that included technical, commercial,
     financial, environmental and social feasibility studies for each partnership prepared
     by regional management organizations OGRs and consulting firms.

    Implementation of Productive Partnership Sub–projects (appraisal estimate,
     US$40.1 million; actual cost, US$20.6 million, or 51 percent of appraisal
     estimate). The component was comprised of: (a) Payment of a subsidy as a grant
     ("Modular Incentive") of up to 40 percent of the total sub-project cost (not to
                                            6


       exceeded US$2,600 equivalent per sub-project, and if land was purchased not to
       exceed US$7,600). The funds were used for on-farm infrastructure, machinery and
       equipment, vegetative materials, fertilizers, chemicals, labor costs, studies, and
       surveys; (b) Technical assistance to productive partnership participants by OGAs
       from one to three years. This included the setting up of the PO and overseeing
       implementation of the investments.

    Project Management (appraisal estimate, US$4.4 million; actual cost, US$4.6
     million, or 105 percent of appraisal estimate). The component financed: (a)
     Creation and operation of a Project Coordinating Group, located in the Ministry of
     Agriculture and Rural Development; (b) Management Information System; and (c)
     Design and implementation of M&E.

Monitoring and Evaluation
2.9     M&E Design: The M&E system planned at appraisal had five elements: (i)
technical assistance providers would monitor implementation of productive partnerships;
(ii) an independent consulting firm would be hired to conduct an impact evaluation
involving baseline and follow -up surveys; (iii) focus groups comprising participants in
productive partnerships would assess whether sub -project objectives have been realized;
(iv) fiduciary oversight would be ensured through annual audits; and (v) six-monthly Bank
supervision missions would review progress toward annual operating targets. The details
of M&E were not fully developed at the design phase, as they should have been. A
qualified M&E specialist was not recruited until 2005 and the system only began operating
adequately in March 2007, five years after the project was approved. Lack of baseline data
prevented beneficiary tracking, with regard to change in employment and incomes. The
indicators to measure the outcomes defined at the time of appraisal (PAD, p. 2) and at mid-
term are provided in Figure 1.
                                                                 7


Figure 1: Outcome Indicators (Original and Revised)
               Original Outcome Indicators                                          Revised Outcome Indicators
 During 2002-2006 producers participating in productive        At the end of a partnership cycle at least 70 percent of the producers
partnerships increase their income by 20 percent               participating in productive partnerships have increased their income by
compared to the baseline;                                      10 percent compared to the baseline of each partnership;
 By the end of the project, an increase of 50 percent in
                                                               At the end of the project, employment in at least 70 percent of the
employment in the participating production units of which
                                                               partnerships will have increased by 10 percent;
40 percent is employment for women;
By the end of the project, agricultural productivity in
production units has increased on average by 20 percent        Dropped
compared to regional indicators;
100 productive partnerships are formalized, consolidated
and are operating in a sustainable manner and contain          Intermediate Outcome Indicator
reimburse conflict resolution schemes;
100 productive partnerships pay their commercial bank
credit (if any) on time and at a recovery rate of 90 percent   Dropped
or more
Productive partnerships investment generate an internal
                                                               Dropped
rate of return of 15 percent;
Project monitoring and evaluation system properly
                                                               Intermediate Outcome Indicator
operating and updated.
                                                               At the end of the project at least 70 percent of the producer
                                                               associations will have attained an adequate social partnerships index
                                                               measuring cohesion and adoption of partnership principles; and

                                                               Five regional management organizations (NGOs/ Service Firms and
                                                               Institutions) have the capacity to structure and follow-up productive
                                                               partnerships; and 10 local management organizations (NGOs / Service
                                                               Firms and Institutions)) are specialized and capable of monitoring and
                                                               assisting producer organizations involved in productive partnerships




2.10 M&E Implementation: The project supported an impact assessment that
constructed comparisons, but spillover effects and a lack of historical data limited its ability
to measure and compare welfare. The economic analysis was used to track partnership
performance, but the methodology was weak (the economic analysis used recall data to
track change income and employment over several years). Some outcome indicators and
several targets were revised at mid–term. The income and employment targets were
reduced owing to the explanation that partnership formation took longer than planned and
therefore sub-project implementation started later. The productivity indicator was dropped
since it was found that regional productivity statistics were not comparable or reliable, and
that in lieu of this, the income indicator could reveal productivity gains. New indicators
were added to assess the capacity of NGOs to monitor and assist with the development of
the productive and the execution of sub-projects. A social index was introduced to measure
social cohesion, as no indicator was identified to measure that objective at the time of
project preparation and appraisal (ICR, page 2).
                                             8


2.11   The M&E system overall had the following shortcomings:

      The M&E framework lacked adequate indicators to measure social cohesion. The
       PAD defined social cohesion at three levels: at the rural community level among
       different communities, at the partnership level between producers and commercial
       partners, and at the producer organization level among farmers. It also stated that
       “the emphasis on forming partnerships -- especially with traditionally
       marginalized groups - produces stronger social and economic bonds among
       different institutional actors within and between communities.” And that, “this
       enhanced social cohesion may help reduce rural violence“(PAD p. 12). With these
       aims in mind, the project lacked a system at design to qualitatively measure group
       behavior and dynamics. At mid-term, the project introduced a social partnership
       index to measure social cohesion, that adopted a measurement of such partnership
       principles as the identification of common objectives and interests, a sense of
       belonging, the adoption of formal and informal rules, constructive conflict
       management, level of trust, participation etc.

      Employment and income data was collected at the group level with average
       effects reported. This method does not allow for a more granular understanding of
       how the poor befitted from the productive partnership model. Data on
       employment was not specific and did not include information on wages or quality
       of employment.

      The project dropped its gender indicator, related to the employment of women.

      The project overall lacked a baseline and the economic analysis which reported on
       project attributable change in income over time relied on recall methods that were
       reported by a few members of each group that was sampled as part of the analysis.

Relevance of Design
2.12 The Relevance of Project Design is rated Modest. The primary concern that led
IEG to downgrade the relevance of design to modest compared with the ICR includes (i)
the inability to understand how the poor benefitted (how the benefits were shared by the
poor, who were the winners and losers in this program) and (2) a lack of a comprehensive
results framework that prohibits learning about what works for the poor and the transfer of
these lessons to the larger alliance program.

2.13 The design components and processes were only partially consistent with the stated
objectives and the results framework. The project set out to achieve its objective by helping
low-income farmers to improve production of agricultural crops, and to market
collectively; thereby helping them to increase incomes and create employment
opportunities. If the project was aimed at generating incomes and creating employment of
poor rural communities, then the project would have required greater attention to
monitoring and tracking of the poor within these communities. While the program did
attempt to target the poor as evidenced by their high rate of participation in this program,
design was hampered by the inability to adequately monitor and track the relative success
                                              9


of the poorer groups in the program, or their relative participation in the groups that failed.
Overall, the project lacked a comprehensive results framework that linked inputs to outputs
to outcomes and impacts. Project revisions at the mid-term review did not address this
issue. In the absence of a baseline, outcome indicators on income, employment and social
cohesion were ambiguous and/or targets were arbitrary.

2.14 The implementation experience also revealed that more information, awareness
raising and training was needed for the commercial partners to work more effectively with
the project supported small-scale farmer organizations. The financial needs of the agro-
processors were also not adequately considered with regard to the capital investments
needed as a result of the supply increase from the smallholders. Project design could have
also benefitted from specific and differentiated capacity development for both the producer
organizations and commercial partners, including in areas where there was the trust deficit
was higher.

2.15 In order to more effectively achieve the project objectives, the project would have
also had to consider the enabling environment more broadly, namely the types of services
and complementary investments that were additionally needed to sustainably increase the
incomes of poor farmers in the project areas. This assessment concurs with an OECD report
(2015) that points to the need for essential complementary programs that would include
rural infrastructure, particularly roads, strong agricultural extension services for farmers,
as the quality of extension services was heterogeneous across regions, and production
systems in the project area. (OECD, 2015b).

2.16 It should be noted that the project introduced a couple of sound design features that
helped with implementation: (i) Using private trust fund companies to transfer funds to the
beneficiaries and thereby by-passing the government procurement cycle helped to instill
reliable and credible financial management of funds. (ii) The project helped to create
private sector capacity for sub-project feasibility assessment by training local NGOs and
consultants. The use of objective pre-investment (feasibility) studies for sub-project
selection and more involvement of private sector NGOs in project implementation at the
local level particularly in the 2nd Phase Project helped to decrease inclusion of grant
capturing interests.


3. Key Features of the Implementation Experience
3.1     Early on in the project cycle (by mid- 2003) project counterparts expressed a
concern with the slow pace of implementation in terms of selecting and setting up the
partnerships. Citing this, as well as an unanticipated shortfall in the annual budget
allocation for agriculture, the Government of Colombia reduced its contribution from US$
20.3 million to US$8.4 million and requested cancellation of a sizeable portion of the
World Bank loan, reducing the loan amount from US$32 million to US$22 million. A
project designed to support the development of social cohesive partnerships, including the
development of new relationships that required trust building, it is not clear why the project
was not allowed more running room in the early implementation period. World Bank rural
livelihood and community driven development projects implemented recently (IEG 2014a,
                                              10


2014b, 2015) have demonstrated the effectiveness of delaying disbursements while
capacity and relationships are developed, when working through groups or partnership
approaches, during the first one to two years.

3.2     The Mid-Term review recommended several implementation performance
corrections, some of which were taken up during the second half of the project period.
These included (a) an improvement of partnership profiles through simplification of
requirements, and strengthening the capacity of local governments; (b) strengthening
capacity of the producer organizations through intensive training and TA; (c) increasing
participation of the private sector through prioritizing projects that had higher private sector
investment contribution; and (d) testing some innovative approaches including
decentralization of decision-making, private sector led identification of partnerships, the
involvement of medium-sized producers, and differentiating the approach by providing
technical assistance, rather than funding, to some partnerships. The project addressed
recommendations (a) and (c) leaving (b) and (d) for Phase II.

3.3     There were several other changes made during implementation that should be
noted. Of foremost importance was the decision by the project to abandon its aim to help
purchase land for landless farmers due to the complexities of the land market (very long
processing times) and the lack of government budget (fiscal space). This was unfortunate,
as this was one of the means to reach landless farmers and therefore poorer segments,
envisioned in design.

3.4     The Revolving Fund system was also redesigned. As of 2008, the Ministry of
Agriculture revised the project operating manual to require that the grants issued by the
project be reimbursed through the revolving fund (in effect, changing the grants to loans).
The aim of the redesign was to promote the growth and the longevity of the revolving
funds. While this aim is understood, the decision to change project design during the last
year of implementation had implications for overall project management, including the
assistance and type of advice that required financial literacy, and the trust that was being
built among and between the producer organizations. In effect, the rules of the game were
changed mid-stream, without adequate consultation or upfront consideration of the type of
support that would be needed to effectively facilitate the design change. The IEG mission
found that as a consequence some farmers were not in a position to pay back the grants.

Safeguards Compliance
3.5    The Project was classified as Category B in terms of environmental safeguards that
required: (i) an environmental assessment (OP. 4.01); and (ii) pest management (OP. 4.09).
In terms of the environmental assessment criteria set out in the PAD (paragraph 5.3), only
B and C type sub-projects were considered for financing. Each productive partnership
made an Environmental Impact Assessment and had to prepare and implement an
Environmental Management Plan with a specific budget, and the implementation of these
was monitored by the local and regional management organizations.

3.6    In both the ICR and subsequently in a report provided to the PPAR team, there was
a concern expressed about environmental compliance at the subproject level. However
                                              11


subsequent comments received from the World Bank and the Government of Colombia
revealed that every sub-project included environmental screening and the development of
a full environmental plan and that for the 85 partnership that still exist, 81 percent continue
to implement their environmental plan. The Final Project Management Report concluded
that it is important to broaden environment management engagement, beyond the
environment experts, to include sensitization of the project’s participating communities.

Financial Management and Procurement
3.7     Project funds were transferred into a trust fund account that was paid in three
tranches to the Producer Organization. A private trust company supervised the trust
account and controlled the use of the grant funds including compliance with procurement
rules. The ICR (page 9) noted that the use of Trust Fund Companies for the transfer of
funds brought credibility regarding funds management as they are independent parties that
ensure compliance with the competitive procurement procedures and reduce
mismanagement of funds. Nonetheless, POs and the member beneficiaries had to go
through numerous formal procedures that caused delays (approximately 6-8 months) in
disbursements.

3.8      There has been a learning experience on financial management from implementing
the first phase of the project as reflected in the revisions in the second phase. For example
one reason for the delays in the first phase – the need to have an individual insurance policy
for each beneficiary in order to protect government funds transferred to the private sector
against misuse – was resolved through the use of a framework insurance policy covering
all beneficiaries and their organizations.

3.9     The final financial management review rated the performance of the financial
management system as moderately satisfactory, reflecting delays in disbursements to
productive partnerships, leading to a buildup of undisbursed funds in the various trust
accounts (ICR page 11). However, the ICR noted that the building up of funds in the Trust
Fund account is unavoidable, since all the funds needed for implementing the partnership
had to be disbursed into the trust accounts prior to the beginning of the implementation to
ensure that funds were available. Indeed this is a sound feature of the trust fund as it ensures
the timely provision of the funds to the POs and the beneficiary members as needed.

3.10 Procurement of goods and services under the productive partnership subprojects
was carried out by the Productive Partnership Steering Committee with the support of
technical assistance providers contracted under the project. The procedures were price
comparison of three price quotations, allowing sole-sourcing in cases where only one
supplier existed in the area. Contracting and payment of service providers and suppliers
were done by the trust companies. No procurement irregularities were identified.



4. Efficacy
4.1    The project development objectives were: "to generate income, create employment
and promote social cohesion of poor rural communities in an economic and environmental
                                            12


sustainable manner through the development and implementation of a demand -driven,
productive partnership scheme with the private sector”. IEG divides this objective into the
following three sub-objectives, while also considering the economic and environmentally
sustainability commitment embedded in the objective. The three sub-objectives are:

      Generate income of poor rural communities
      Create employment of poor rural communities
      Promote social cohesion of poor rural communities

4.2     The main evidence on outcomes and impacts is derived from the Management
Information System, an Impact Evaluation conducted by Econometria Consultores in 3
cohorts, Economic and Financial Analysis conducted by FAO, 2008; a Beneficiary Survey
by Econometria Consultores, 2008; and several external research undertakings (the Center
for Tropical Agriculture-CIAT, 2014 and MADR, 2014 on poverty targeting), mission
interviews with MADR and PIU staff, group interviews with the members of a sample of
7 POs, and other relevant stakeholders.

4.3     Achieved Outputs: The project exceeded its output targets. It helped to establish
136 productive partnerships against a target of 100 partnerships benefitting 11,714
households against a target of 10,000 households (See Table 1). The partnerships
encompassed several commodity types, including vegetables, cocoa, coffee, livestock,
milk, and aquaculture (See Table 2). Crops accounted for 76 percent of the partnerships,
livestock 14 percent and aquaculture and forestry 10 percent. By project close, the project
had helped to link 118 of the 136 producer organizations to 108 private commercial
partners. Of these, by project close, 57 were reported to have been actively purchasing from
the producer organization and 32 worked with more than one partner.


Table 1: Partnerships and Proposals Supported by the Project
 Project Outputs                                                    Phase I
                                              PLANNED           ACTUAL AS OF END OF 2008


 Number of Proposals Received                     300                    342
 Number of Proposals Selected                     225                    177
 Number of Feasibility Studies Finalized          150                    177
 Number of Partnerships approved and              100                    136
 implemented
 Number of beneficiaries                         10,000               11,714

 Number of partnerships declared                                          18
 unsuccessful
  percent of partnerships declared                                       13.2
 unsuccessful

 Number of OGAs contracted                                               147
 Number of OGRs contracted                                                 9
                                             13


Table 2: Partnership Type, by Commodity Type
 Product                                          Phase I Partnerships
                                               NUMBER            %
 Cocoa                                           16             11.8
 Fruits                                           29           21.32
 Coffee                                            5            3.68
 Livestock (incl. honey)                          15           11.03
 Vegetables (incl. beans and corn)                18           13.24
 Aquaculture (Fisheries)                           9            6.62
 Palm                                              5            3.68
 Rubber and Natural Fibers                        11            8.09
 Other                                            28           20.59
 Total                                            136          100.00
Sources: ICR Annex 2 and M&E Data



Analysis of the Partnership Types, by commodity
4.4     In Colombia, the diverse climate and topography facilitates growth of a variety of
agricultural goods, including coffee, plantains, rice, potatoes, banana, sugar cane, palm oil,
cassava, maize, and tomatoes, dairy and meat cattle. Over the last decades, due to the armed
conflict, the relative value of crop production has declined and the value of livestock
production has increased (See Table 3).

  Table 3: Composition of Value of Agricultural Production (1991-2012) (percent)
                                                                1991      2000       2012
 Crops, including:                                              64.7      59.6       53.8
 Coffee                                                         11.2       9.2        7.7
 Palm Oil                                                        1.1       2.2        3.3
 Livestock , including:                                         35.3      40.4       46.2

 Cow Milk                                                       10.3      13.4       13.7

 Total                                                          100        100       100
  Source: OECD, 2015 a.



4.5     Coffee. There were five coffee partnerships supported by the project. Colombia is
the third largest coffee producer in the world, following Brazil and Vietnam and it is the
leading producer of the Colombian mild Arabica variety. Coffee is also the most important
crop in Colombia in terms of value, contributing 7.7 percent of total agricultural production
value. Being a labor intensive crop, it provides the highest share of employment, generating
about 40 percent of direct jobs in agriculture. Being the main export product in agriculture,
                                            14


coffee producers can easily market their products, as the marketing channel involves
purchasing points through producers’ co-operatives, official coffee storage warehouses,
and the National Federation of Coffee Growers. National regulatory entities represent the
associations and other national entities, providing support to farmers through activities
such as research, training, and promotion, and determining a stable system of internal
prices, among others (OECD d. 2015).

4.6     IEG visited two of the five coffee partnerships supported by the project. IEG
learned that in 2002, when the producer organization was established, the coffee producers
were already producing and selling coffee. Project funds were mainly used to augment
production, through the purchase of inputs. Already mature, the main benefit that was
reported to have been enjoyed by these groups, was easier and swifter access to finance
through the use of the project-supported revolving funds. The groups already had access to
marketing channels. One of the organizations visited reported that with project support they
established formal procedures, employed a lawyer, and recovered about 88 percent of the
project credit funds and then continued to provide additional credit to members at market
rates. Although many producers could also access finance from other providers, they
preferred the revolving fund for its ease of access and speed. The visit to the coffee
producers raised the question as to the value added of the project for these producers, and
the opportunity costs of supporting these partnerships over less mature ones.

4.7     Dairy. There were nine dairy partnerships supported by the project. Colombia
ranks fourth among Latin American countries in cattle farming, and it is the ninth-largest
producer of beef in the world. Six percent of cattle are raised for dairy purposes (1.5
million), 58 percent are raised for meat (13.7 million), and 36 percent for both meat and
milk (8.2 million). Productivity in Colombia’s dairy sector is among the lowest in the
region, which stems from high input prices, poor transport infrastructure, and the high
number of intermediary agents. In terms of marketing, the links between small scale
farmers and the milk processing firms are quite close (OECD d. 2015 a.) IEG visited one
milk PO among the nine milk POs that were supported by the project. Established 18 years
ago, the PO reportedly improved its operations through the project. Before the project they
were selling the milk to the intermediaries, and with the help of the project they made an
agreement with the milk agro-processor that was located in the main city, two hours away.
Project funds were used for inputs (fertilizer, cattle food, TA and agricultural extension),
as well as for buying a milk collection truck. The recovery of the funds for the revolving
fund was very low (34 percent). The farmers reported that farm sizes and incomes of the
members varied and smaller size members had a hard time paying back the funds.

4.8     Palm Oil. The project supported 5 palm producer organizations. Palm oil
production has been increasing over the last decades as a result of changing government
policies (elimination of government purchases as well as more increased imports of short
cycle products such as cereals). Therefore, more farmers switched to more profitable crops
including palm oil (in addition to palm oil other crops farmers preferred were cacao,
plantain, and fruits). The area allocated to palm oil grew significantly between 1991-2012
by 221 percent and its share in total crop area increased from 1.9 percent to 7.4 percent
(OECD, 2015, a). IEG visited one of the five palm oil producing partnerships supported by
the project. The PO was established in 2000. At first, the farmers were supported by the
Magdalena Medio Peace Development Program of the government. The program helped
                                             15


them to switch from subsistence crops (rice, corn and cassava) to palm for increased
earnings. The project funds provided inputs (fertilizer and pesticides), as well as
agricultural extension and TA services on social and environmental aspects. The IEG
mission found that the value added of the Bank project was unclear for these producers,
since they had been receiving similar support from the Government.

4.9     The pam oil producer interviewed changed its initial commercial partner due to the
long distance and high transportation costs. Recovery rate of the revolving fund was low
(47 percent). The producers reported that due to variable soil quality in the area, yields
changed considerably (from 24 t/ha to 14 t/ha) and therefore some producers earned lower
levels of income and were unable to pay back the revolving fund amounts. The producers
also noted that with additional producers switching to palm in the region, there was a
surplus of the product and another agro-processor was needed in the region to utilize all
the production. This was an indication that future projects in this area should have a dual
approach; ensuring the availability of sufficient agro-processing capability and commercial
partners by for example collaborating with different organizations and financiers, including
IFC. The farmers were also thinking of ways to diversify their production.

4.10 Fruits and Vegetables. The Project supported 47 fruits and vegetable partnerships
out of a total of 136 partnerships. Fruits and vegetables are important in Colombia’s
external trade balance as they enjoy the advantage of continuously increasing world
demand, therefore net exports have been increasing. They are also among the crops that
generate the most employment per hectare and, therefore, they are valuable crops from a
poverty-alleviation perspective. Bananas, Colombia’s third-largest agricultural export after
coffee and flowers, alone generate an estimated 34,543 direct jobs. Recently, exports of
other fruits such as plantain, mandarin oranges, lemons, and strawberries has increased.
Beans and asparagus are other significant export crops. Uchuva is now Colombia’s third-
most-important fruit export, after bananas and plantains. Granadilla, lulo, passion fruit,
berries, and papaya, are among other fruit crops that have potential in the international
market. There are direct links between small-scale producers and exporters especially for
fruits such as plantain, granadilla, and uchuva products (World Bank, 2003 and OECD,
2015, a).

4.11 The fruits and vegetable partnerships were the most fragile. Sixty percent of these
established partnerships failed. IEG interviews sought to probe some of the underlying
drivers for partnership failure in this area, including in interviews with commercial
partners. Poor quality or insufficient quantity were frequent reasons cited for partnership
failure. The poor road network was a constraining factor for the development of small-
holder fruit and vegetable outgrower schemes. A lack of cold storage facilities was also a
constraint. IEG visited a strawberry and a blackberry producer organization. While both
organizations were functioning, they had both endured difficult times.

4.12 The strawberry producer organization experienced difficulties with establishing a
fair pricing scheme with the commercial partner; it took several years to find another buyer
(large scale food company). The organization was satisfied with the financial support it
received that allowed it to hire workers to clean and transport the berries, as well as to buy
seeds and other inputs. However, the organization was less satisfied with the technical
assistance it received. During the second phase, the organization reportedly received the
                                             16


technical assistance it had requested. The blackberry producer organization experienced
difficulties when there was a surplus in the market (and an associated price decline). The
producers incurred substantial losses during that time and were therefore unable to
replenish the revolving fund. The commercial partner, a big supermarket, only bought 20
percent of the production, the rest was sold in the wholesale market but for significantly
lower prices. The PO was in search of another big commercial partner, so that better prices
could be received for the remaining 80 percent of production but was unable to find one
located close by.

4.13 Honey. Four honey partnerships were supported by the project and IEG visited
one PO that was established in 2004. This was not a new product for the farmers but,
through the project, they increased the number of beehives (900 additional beehives were
procured). The PO does not have a single market partner. Industriously, it established its
own simple packaging system and started marketing its own product to both retail stores
and wholesalers. The PO also provides technical assistance to other producers in the
region. A key success factor was the careful selection of alliance participants. They applied
to the 2nd Phase project as the commercial partner this time, but the plan was rejected.

4.14 Flowers. Flowers are the second biggest agricultural export product in Colombia
after coffee and Colombia is the world’s second largest exporter of cut flowers in the world
(following the Netherlands). The project supported only one PO that decided to get together
to produce heliconias, a tropical flower that is mainly exported. However, the partnership
failed due to the inability to form strong and trusting bonds, lack of access to extension
services, weak technical assistance provided by the local management organization, and
low quality products. Both the producer and the buyer had to close operations. The location
of the production was a major factor in the failure. The partnership was formed in a
cropping area that had been affected by years of conflict where more attention to
relationship and trust building would have been needed, in addition to technical support.

Achievement of Project Objectives
4.15 The achievement of the objective of generating income of poor rural
communities is rated Substantial. The project helped to establish productive partnerships
for 136 producer organizations of which 85 survived seven years after closing the
cumulative failure rate at the time of the assessment was 38 percent). The project provided,
on average, US$1,681 of finance to each of the 11,714 farming families targeted.

4.16 An independent impact assessment conducted by Econometría, Consultores of 20
partnerships showed that for 17 of these, the average income of smallholders in the
partnership increased between 12 and 32 percent (the remaining three had failed). Issues
with the methodology used to construct the control groups prevent a comparison to non-
project beneficiaries however.

4.17 A separate economic analysis conducted by the United Nations Food and
Agriculture Organization (2008), using a random stratified sample of 23 productive
partnerships, reported that on average, participant incomes increased by 77 percent during
the project period but with significant variation depending on the commodity. By project
end, it was estimated that households on average received US$280 in additional income,
                                            17


and that in 3-4 years’ time these households would earn an average of US$2,300 in
additional income annually, in line with the average economic rates of return projected for
the partnerships (see efficiency section).

4.18 For the 62 percent of the partnerships that survived, it is likely that members are
continuing to benefit from the increased incomes derived from engagement in the
partnerships. However, since the project did not include disaggregated reporting of
benefits, it is unclear whether the poor are equally benefitting from the reported increases
in income, or whether the partnerships that have survived were equally comprised (of rural
poor participants) as the partnerships that have failed along the way.

4.19 The achievement of the objective of generating employment of poor rural
communities is rated Substantial. According to the impact evaluation conducted for 17
Producer Organizations, employment levels increased between 5 to 50 percent, varying
greatly according to the partnership. The FAO economic analysis estimated that
employment had, on average, increased by 70 percent (matching the project’s revised target
and exceeding the appraisal target of 50 percent). On average, employment generation was
estimated by FAO to be 0.8 person/year/farm.

4.20 This finding was echoed in IEG field site visits where six of the seven groups visited
by IEG attested that the project had enabled them to hire additional labor, and that most of
this work was for on-farm activities. Commercial partners interviewed by IEG also attested
that there was additional labor hired due to the project. Anecdotally, the buyers suggested
that this represented an additional 10-15 percent of their workforce. Like the reporting on
incomes, while there is substantial evidence that the project supported additional
employment in rural poor areas, a lack of disaggregated data limits the assessment’s ability
to know whether it effectively reach the poor (See Table 4).


 Table 4: Additional Employment Created Through the Project
                                            Additional Outside Employment (person /
  Producer Organization                                   household)
                                           ON FARM            NON-FARM         TOTAL
  Honey, Bolivar                             0.25                0.70            0.95
  Milk, N. Santander                           2                 0.12            2.12
  Palm, Santander                            1.25                  0             1.25
  Flower, Cundinamarka*                       n/a                 n/a             n/a
  Coffee, Cacao, Huila                       0.67                  0             0.67
  Strawberry, Cauca                          0.00                0.83            0.83
  Black Berry, Cundinamarka                    1                 0.02            1.02
  Agroprocessor:
                                                           10 percent increase in
  Milk Agroprocessor                                       employment
                                                           15 percent increase in
  Palm Oil Processor                                       employment
*The PO was dissolved.
 Source: IEG Mission Group Interviews
                                               18


4.21 Poverty and Environmental Sustainability were cross-cutting themes,
embedded in the objective statement of this project. While the project did not include
disaggregated data collection, the project was implemented in very rural poor areas.
Analysis conducted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development suggests that
the majority of the persons participating in this project were likely to be poor. The analysis
sought to compare the beneficiary status of the productive partnership project with the
roster of persons receiving social benefits, through the government’s social welfare
program. The analysis found that, as of December 2013, 75 percent of the persons
registering as participating in the productive partnership projects were also participating in
the social welfare programs (the analysis was conducted for phase 1 and 2 of the project).
Of these, 61 percent were also physically located in remote poor rural areas (see Table 5).
However, roughly only a third of this cohort are registered as the poorest of the poor, as
identified by registration in the Government’s Red Unidos Program. Further analysis
shows that about eight percent of the project beneficiaries that are receiving project benefits
from SISBEN were also receiving benefits from a program called, ‘Más Familias en
Acción’, a conditional cash transfer program for very poor households.

4.22 An independent study carried out by the International Center for Tropical
Agriculture of the partnerships (for phases I and II) found that the program reaches the
marginal (Afro-Colombian and indigenous) and displaced populations at levels near to or
in excess of the weight of these populations in Colombia (participation in the program for
displaced population was 8,8 percent, Afro 8,5 percent and indigenous 9,9 percent).


Table 5: Mapping the Location of Project Beneficiaries

Productive Partnership Project Beneficiaries

                     SISBEN AREA                          NUMBER                  %

1 (Major cities w/o metropolitan areas)                     595                  1.85%

2 (Other towns)                                            11,889               36.90%

3 (Remote rural areas)                                     19,737               61.26%

Total                                                      32,221              100.00%
Source: MADR, 2014



4.23 Environmental sustainability was mainstreamed in the project, but there is a
need to continue to support strengthened environment management capacity and
mainstreaming in the agriculture sector. In both the ICR and subsequently in a report
provided to the PPAR team, there was a concern expressed about environmental
compliance at the subproject level. However subsequent comments received both by World
Bank and the Government of Colombia reveal that every subproject included a screening
and a development of full environmental plan and that for partnerships that for the 85
partnership that still exist, 81 percent continue to implement their implement
environmental plan. The Final Project Management Report (MADR 2008) concluded that
                                             19


it is important to sensitize and educate not only the environmental experts but also the
participating communities on conservation and sound utilization of environmental and
natural resources.

4.24 The achievement of the objective of promoting social cohesion of poor rural
communities is rated Modest. The project used the term ‘social cohesion’ in various
ways, at times referring to the cohesion of the groups and at others the general cohesiveness
of society in a country affected by violence and conflict. This affected the ability of the
project to ring-fence its definition and to apply appropriate measurement tools. While no
baseline was established, the project measured social cohesion during implementation with
the use of a Social Partnerships Index (Impact Evaluation, 2008) that was designed to
capture only farmers’ perceptions about the degree of social cohesion within and between
the farmer and commercial groups. Using this methodology, the project reported that only
35 percent of partnerships received an adequate score (scores higher than the 2nd quintile)
while the project, as designed, had aimed for 70 percent. The low scores are attributed to
the lack of mutual trust and the lack of direct contact between producers and their
commercial partners. This assessment finds that the project could have provided more
lessons on the need for differentiated approaches to support more cohesive relationships
between (1) farmers and commercial agents; (2) community members interesting in
forming a new collective; and (3) groups in areas that have been deeply affected by
protracted conflict or violence.

4.25 The impact evaluation found that farm households had difficulty in identifying
themselves as members of an apex organization defined as ‘productive partnerships’.
Households interviewed were not familiar with members of the partnerships or their precise
role. Fifty-four percent of the households included in the impact assessment did now know
the name of their business partner, for example, and 67 percent of beneficiary farmers do
not know their corresponding OGA. The impact assessment posited that the partnership
scheme is understood and handled only by a minority in the producer organization. The
impact assessment also pointed to a lack of compliance with the partnership agreements,
and the resulting effects that this had on trust. The impact assessment also pointed to an
unevenness in perceptions with regard to the attitudes of the commercial partners.
Interviews with sixteen commercial partners revealed that the perception of benefits by the
commercial partners were not as significant as the producers. The ICR reported that the
producers considered that the guarantee of their supply was an important benefit for the
commercial partners; but the commercial partners did not think that their supplies were
guaranteed (ICR page 45). Private agro-processors also expressed a preference to buy their
supplies from large producers due to lower transaction costs and lower risks. When agro
processors deal with small producers, it is because of social responsibility, to diversify
resources or to gain preferential access to primary produce where produce is scarce (ICR
page 8).

4.26 A study by The International Center for Tropical Agriculture (2015) noted that
productive alliances perform well when the relationship established creates value for both
the small producers (and their PO) and for the commercial partner. Value generation
                                            20


depends on the competitiveness, efficiency and sustainability of the business. Also, based
on semi-structured interviews with 10 commercial partners, CIAT concluded that the
reasons that commercial partners participate in productive partnerships are to: develop the
supply of quality products, create long-term commercial relationships, build efficiencies in
the supply chain, and therefore achieve reduction of supply costs and uncertainties.

4.27 The IEG mission revealed that there is a need for special attention to partnerships
operating in conflict affected areas, especially when switching to new crops and when the
POs are newly established organizations. Group interviews revealed that there was a
difference between indigenously formed partnerships –partnerships formed by the farmers
themselves – versus those that were formed by the project, or with the goal of accessing
project resources. The time needed to build cohesive and trusting partnerships, to link
suppliers with buyers, to support new crop development and associated linkages, may be
longer in a conflict affected area where trust has been frayed.

4.28 Nevertheless, the impact assessment pointed to a sense of security enjoyed by
households participating in the program. Seventy-nine percent of famers interviewed
reported that belonging to the producer organization brought security and safety.

Unintended Outcomes
4.29 The external impact assessment noted a strong, positive spillover effect of the
project. Neighboring producers not enrolled in partnerships replicated partnership-
introduced technologies. The spillover effects can be described in the following ways: (1)
there was demand for support services from producer organizations outside of the
partnerships; (2) there was increased investment in similar crops by neighboring farmers;
(3) the commercial partners expanded their purchases from farmers outside of the
partnerships in the same villages or communities; (4) training extended to others, or
farmers training each other; and (5) local governments implementing similar programs with
other resources.


5. Efficiency
5.1     The ex-ante economic analysis was in general sound, based on six farm models that
included partnerships producing a variety of crops/products, including palm oil, cacao,
dairy, agro-forestry and vegetables. The analysis was based on data collected from field
observations and discussions with the farmer cooperatives and agribusiness and it included
estimates of the fixed costs related to the preparation and improvement of the land and the
variable costs associated with the cultivation of the crops. The benefits were determined
based on estimates of long-term productivity and crop prices. The estimated economic rate
of return exceeded the discount rate of 15 percent, ranging from 18 percent-cacao to 156
percent-vegetables.

5.2    Ex-post Economic and Financial Analysis was based on a random stratified sample
(according to crop and region) of 23 productive partnerships (out of a total of 106 which
had completed implementation of at least 50 percent of funds received, and were at least
                                             21


one year after the first disbursement still operational). The 23 partnerships represented
1,741 families, covering 24,745 ha of primary sector activities. The main assumptions
were: (i) Estimated benefits were sales revenues and operational costs included inputs and
services, labor costs (including opportunity cost of family labor) at market prices; (ii) The
opportunity cost of land (estimated using the cost that the producer would have incurred
if s/he had to rent the land) was included; (iii) Investment costs included grants (modular
incentive), technical assistance, contributions from other public and private partners and
producers’ own capital; (iv) Discount rate was changed to 12 percent and duration was 20
years (Assessment of Financial and Economic Results, FAO).

5.3     The ICR reported an incremental income for the farm household of US$280 at the
end of the project, representing an increase of 77 percent over the baseline. The analysis
also estimated that in 3-4 years’ time annual incremental income would reach US$ 2,300
per family, which was 6.4 times the baseline. However there was a high variation among
partnerships with IRR values ranging from 169 percent to -34 percent (69 percent of
partnerships generated positive returns, and 39 percent had less than opportunity cost of
capital and among them 13 percent had negative returns). The ICR noted that the gap
between the ex-ante and ex-post rates of return was partly the result of lower-than-average
rainfall in some areas and record high input prices for many commodities; and also
reflected the weak design of some productive partnerships and inadequate training of
participants (ICR, p. 15). The productive partnerships with lower IRR estimates were:
cocoa, mushrooms, blackberry, poultry, stevia and artisanal fishing; and significant
production cost increases, and stagnating sales negatively impacted all these partnerships.
5.4     There were two main shortcomings associated with the efficiency of this project.
The first was the methodology used to conduct the rate or return analysis. The analysis
used recall data to determine income over time. This data was collected at the level of the
group, so that average incomes were estimated by a few of the group members, thus
limiting our understanding of individual household returns.

5.5      Second, the cost of delivering services – inclusive of group formation - was high.
On average, it cost the project US$657 per family to form a partnership (including all
project management support) to deliver US$280 of additional income per family in the first
year, with a projected additional US$2300 annual incremental income within three to four
years after project close. Additional evidence provided by the Government of Colombia
attests to the sustainability and strength of overall alliance gross sales. However, the sales
figures provided demonstrates that the incremental income flows estimated by the ICR
were overly estimated.



6. Ratings
6.1    The Outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory. While the project objective is
rated Substantially Relevant, and while it substantially met two out of the three project
aims, design – rated modest - had several weaknesses and efficiency is rated modest owing
many to the insufficient methods that were used to measure and report on the economic
analysis at project close. Value for money also appears to be somewhat undermined by the
costs of service delivery compared to the estimated gross revenues attributable to the
                                             22


project support over The project modestly achieved efforts to promote social cohesion of
poor rural communities, as determined by a scoring index implemented by the project.

Risk to Development Outcome
6.2     Sustainability of partnerships: The sustainability of partnerships declined over time.
As of 2008, the number of failed partnerships supported by the project was 18 (13.2
percent); by 2014, the number had increased to 51 (37.5 percent) partnerships (ICR page
30 and IEG mission interviews). The M&E data suggests that POs that produce perishable
products have higher failure rates (more than 50 percent) compared to non-perishable,
easily stored products. According to Table 6, failures occurred with partnerships that
produce vegetables (61 percent in vegetable POs), fruits (59 percent in fruit POs), and
aquaculture (fisheries) (56 percent in aquaculture POs). On the other hand lower failure
rates were observed in non-perishable, easily stored crops such as cocoa (25 percent),
rubber (36 percent) and palm (40 percent). Furthermore, no failure was observed in coffee
producing POs.

Table 6: Failed Partnerships by Crop
                                                           Total
                                                                        Failed     % Failed
 Main Crop                                                Number
 Cocoa                                                      16             4         25%
 Fruits                                                     29            17         59%
 Coffee                                                      5             0          0%
 Livestock (incl. honey)                                    15             2         13%
 Vegetables (incl. beans and corn)                          18            11         61%
 Aquaculture (Fisheries)                                     9             5         56%
 Palm                                                        5             2         40%
 Rubber and Natural Fibers                                  11             4         36%
 Other                                                      28             6         21%
 Total                                                      136           51         38%
Source: Project M&E



LEARNING FROM FAILURE

6.3     There were several reasons reported by various stakeholders during the IEG
mission for the failure of partnerships supported by the project. Commercial entities
reported not being satisfied with the quantity or quality of the crops that they had agreed
to purchase. Farmers reported receiving inadequate extension and training, especially for
new crops. Commercial entities also requested specialized assistance for managing the
risks associated with engaging smallholder organizations. Producer Organizations that
produced fresh fruits and vegetables pointed to the poor road infrastructure and lack of
storage.
                                              23


6.4     The Beneficiary Assessments conducted by the impact assessment also provided
context to understanding partnership failure. The education level of the producers, the pre-
existence of a producer organization, and training in producer organizational matters are
all positively correlated with the success of the partnerships. Also, the sustainability of the
partnerships depends largely on how well producer organizations are operated and are
managed. The inconsistencies and difficulties in recovering modular incentive funds is
seen as a key shortcoming (ICR page 45-46). Other reasons for failure reported by the ICR
included decreasing market prices due to over-supply, poor negotiations with private sector
agents when partnerships were created, inadequate or incomplete investments (faced by
few partnerships) reflecting poor partnership project design and/or poor beneficiaries’
capacity assessment.

6.5     CIAT (2015), noted that a productive alliance performs well when the relationship
established creates value both for small producers (and their PO) as well as for the
commercial partner (CP). Value generation depends on the competitiveness, efficiency and
sustainability of the business. CIAT also reported that commercial partners participate in
the partnership because they primarily want to reduce supply costs and uncertainties. If this
is not happening, commercial partners leave the partnership. CIAT interviews with the
commercial partners also drew the following recommendations for future programs: (i)
Continue to build PO capacities as commercial actors; (ii) Improve coordination between
public sector rural development programs; (iii) Engage more with the commercial partners
in project design, particularly in technical design.

6.6     An analysis done by the World Bank in 2012 looking at some 16 productive
partnership projects implemented in Latin America Region revealed that on average about
30 percent of the partnerships were unsustainable. It is important to note that there has been
several adjustments to the project in its 2nd Phase which should lead to improved
sustainability of the partnerships. Some of these revisions are as follows:

      Since strong Producer Organizations are key for partnership sustainability, the
       project started providing long term technical assistance (up-to two years) to the
       producer organizations on management.
      The decentralization of project implementation (partnership selection and
       monitoring) and full time hiring of OGRs for project implementation, which are
       overseen by the PIU, contributed to increased objectivity of selection process. The
       OGRs currently employ full time staff on various areas, hire and train OGAs for
       technical services provision and monitor the partnerships. These improved
       selection as well as implementation processes contribute to establishing better
       functioning partnerships.
                                                     24


    Box 1: The Anatomy of Failed Partnership
IEG conducted a group interview with one failed partnership in Cundinamarca Region. The interview
revealed that the partnership faced several challenges in terms of weak social cohesion and inadequate
beneficiary selection, as well as weak TA support and issues with the commercial partner. However,
located in a conflict area, being a newly formed PO, and producing a new crop, these issues became even
more challenging. In such situations a strong OGA and longer handholding, and even complementing the
productive partnership project through other government programs is necessary
According to an OECD Review on Colombia’s Agriculture (2015), the rise of illicit drug-related
activities created new jobs particularly in cultivating and processing the coca plant. Also, earnings were
often as much as twice what could be earned in the production of legal crops (OECD, 2015 a). The
PPAR mission visited one productive partnership located in such an area in Cundinamarca Region, which
was previously controlled by a drug cartel, which provided jobs to a significant number of rural
households. When the drug cartel was taken out by government forces, many households in the area lost
their primary income source. The group of farmers interviewed by the IEG mission reported that after
the cartel had been eradicated, the local government introduced the Productive Partnerships Support
Project in the area in order to help the small farmers to generate new income opportunities. A Producer
Organization was established in 2005 by 42 farmers in order to cultivate and collectively market
heliconias, a tropical flower that is exported. The PO applied for support from the project, signed an
agreement with a local commercial partner, and 31 farmers became project beneficiaries. It took 2 years
to implement the project and the productive partnership failed shortly after the project was implemented.
Several reasons were provided to explain the partnership failure. There were issues with the formation of
the PO, particularly a lack of social cohesion among PO members, as well as issues with the design of the
sub-project, i.e. social assessment for beneficiary selection. The producers claimed that they did not
know many of the project beneficiaries. They believed that the social assessment to select the
beneficiaries was misconducted and some beneficiaries, who were only interested in the project grant,
were included into the project. The group of farmers noted that these were the beneficiaries who
disappeared after receiving the project grant.
The crop was also a new crop and the farmers were not provided with sufficient technical assistance,
which negatively affected quality of the product. The agricultural engineers that were supposed to
provide agricultural extension advice on the product were not knowledgeable about the crop. The
commercial partner reportedly did not buy the entire production due to quality issues. Consequently, the
commercial partner closed down its business in the area in 2008. Some members (they did not benefit)
lost their money and their crops.
In addition, shortly after implementing the project, the beneficiaries learned that they had to pay back the
money to the revolving fund. That was reportedly when they decided to dissolve the PO in 2008.
While the partnership and the PO failed, some farmers still continued to produce and sell the flowers. It
was reported that one of the farmers found a couple of retail flower shops at close by municipalities that
bought her production. Realizing there was extra demand, the farmer arranged 7 other producers to sell
their products to her, becoming an intermediary between these remaining producers and the retail shops.
In addition it was reported that three other farmers were still producing and selling the product
individually.




    6.7    Revolving Funds: The Ministry of Agriculture required that the beneficiaries
    reimburse their grants into a revolving fund managed by the producer organization. This
    was introduced at the end of 2008, to enable POs to grow their business and to provide
    continuous support to their members. The expectation of the beneficiaries when the project
                                              25


started was to receive grants but the policy was changed at project closing and the grants
were turned into credits that had to be paid back. This was not fair for farmer beneficiaries
who initially thought that they were receiving grants not credits. Indeed, during the IEG
mission, some farmer beneficiaries complained that they were not able to pay back.
According to the M&E results, as of end of 2014, the amount recovered /programmed
amount was 55 percent for Phase I and 61 percent for Phase II (for completed projects),
which is quite low when compared to loan recovery rates on rural lending by financial
providers. The M&E system did not provide information about how many times the
recovered amounts were used for additional loans and how much the funds got multiplied.

6.8     Macroeconomic and Market Risks, Significant: The productive partnership
model is not immune to business cycle downturns or changes in the macroeconomic
conditions. For example international prices for exported commodities are important for
products such as cocoa, rubber, or flowers. Similarly exchange rate fluctuations affect the
input prices or sale prices of exported commodities. Furthermore, surplus of crops in
certain years negatively impact many producers particularly fresh fruit producers. More
information about markets are needed but these risks cannot be easily mitigated in general
by the small farmers.

6.9     Social Risk: The social cohesion assessment done for the first phase revealed very
low results in terms of social cohesion. There are issues in terms of mutual trust and direct
contact between producers and the producer organization. The commercial partners do not
perceive the benefits from the partnership as significantly as the producers. More
involvement of commercial partners during project selection and approval is necessary.
More technical assistance and handholding is necessary for the PO management
particularly for the newly established partnerships.

6.10 Financial Risk: While access to finance remains a risk, one of the key contributions
of the project was the introduction of a pre-investment culture in the small holder
agribusiness sector in Colombia that would contribute to lower the financial risk.

6.11 Institutional Risk: The establishment of private sector capacity for pre-investment
analysis and project implementation has been an important contribution of the project.
While the integration of the PIU into the MADR has not yet been achieved, the Government
has put a transition strategy in place that seeks to tend to the needs of the partnerships after
the closing of the second phase.

6.12 The risk to development outcome for the partnerships supported under the First
Phase is rated Significant, owing to the increased number of failed partnerships reported
since project close, the teething problems experienced by many newer or less mature
groups with the revolving funds, and the persistence of some of the financial and
transitional risks that are referred to above.

Bank Performance
6.13 Quality at entry. The productive partnership model - that brings together small
farmer producer organizations and commercial partners with the support of Government
                                              26


and civil society was a new and experimental concept. The validity of the model was borne
out by pilot project implementation experience from 6 partnership pilots. The project’s
design was sound, with the public sector coordinating the project and decentralized
implementation, carried out by the private sector NGOs. The project design adequately
identified risks and mitigation measures. One key risk identified was the interruption of the
program by armed groups. This risk was mitigated through geographic dispersion of the
project portfolio. Another risk that was identified was power asymmetry between the
commercial entities and the small producer organizations. The project included a public
information campaign and training that was mainly directed towards supporting the
producer organizations, to counter that risk. Ironically, by project close, it was recognized
that more attention was needed to solidify the support of the commercial side of the
program. There was a need to have generated more buy-in of the commercial entities at
design, to convey the added benefits of the program, and to formulate partnerships that
were better aligned with market demand.

6.14 Quality at entry could have been strengthened had it recognized and allowed for the
time and resources needed to establish effective partnerships, to build relationships and
trust that include mechanisms to resolve grievances. The cancellation of a significant
amount of Borrower and Bank financing from the early part of this project signifies that
one or both parties to the project may not have been prepared to forego disbursement
pressure while tending to the project’s social demands.

6.15 The design of the Monitoring and Evaluation included a management information
system that tracked inputs and outputs; it also included an Impact Evaluation that was
intended to develop a baseline, midline and to conduct an end-line survey (although a
baseline was not collected). The lack of a coherent definition of social cohesion as it applied
in this project had an effect on the ability of the project to meaningfully measure that part
of the project objective.

6.16   Overall, Quality at entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

6.17 Supervision. Project supervision was flexible, adaptive and responsive. While
weaknesses in the monitoring and evaluation system were not wholly corrected,
supervision made several adjustments in response to the project mid-term review that
improved overall performance. These included an improvement of partnership profiles
through simplification of requirements and attention to the strengthening the capacity of
local governments. After mid-term, the project also increased the participation of the
private sector through prioritizing projects that had higher private sector investment
contribution. Supervision reporting was candid and did not seek to gloss over the slow
progress and mixed results at the start of the project. For example when the results of the
first cohort impact evaluation did not show significant impacts on income and employment,
the project was downgraded. Then upgraded again with the improved impacts measured
by the second and third cohorts.

6.18 The supervision team carried out on average two supervisions per year. There were
procurement ex-post reviews and regular financial management reviews. The supervision
                                           27


teams should have paid greater attention to oversight of the Bank’s environmental policies
however.

6.19   Quality of supervision is rated Satisfactory.

6.20 Taking into account the quality at entry and the supervision ratings, overall Bank
Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. It is important to note that there was a
mistake made in the ICR and the ICR Review with regards to Bank Performance. The
harmonized IEG-OPCS ICR guidance refers specifically to a MS and S joint rating
resulting in a MS overall Bank performance rating. This was correctly picked up by the
PPAR.

Borrower Performance
6.21 Government Performance. The Government, specifically, the National Planning
Department and the Ministry of Agriculture complied with the legal covenants of the
project. The Ministry of Agriculture recruited a Project Implementation Unit which was
made up of experienced and committed experts, most of whom stayed with the project and
provided continuity in project management and implementation. However, faced with an
unexpected deterioration in its fiscal position caused by a combination of endogenous and
exogenous factors, a large amount of borrower financing early on in the project cycle was
cancelled. Given the considerable reduction in overall financing, the Project
Implementation Unit, in tandem with the Bank, helped to effectively oversee the core
aspects of the project. The Government’s commitment and strong interest to the productive
alliance model was further demonstrated by the implementation of the second phase
project.

6.22   Government performance is rated Satisfactory.

6.23 Implementing Agency Performance. The PIU acted swiftly and effectively to
resolve implementation problems and incorporated lessons learnt into project
implementation. It was due to the timely analyses conducted by the PIU that several
improvements in project design were incorporated. Financial management and
procurement were satisfactory. However more attention should have paid to environmental
safeguards.

6.24   Implementing agency performance is rated as Satisfactory.

6.25 Taking into account the government and implementing agency ratings, overall
borrower performance is rated Satisfactory.
                                              28


7. Lessons
7.1    There are four main lessons from the project that were derived from this project
performance assessment:

7.2    In Productive Partnership Projects, sufficient attention needs to be paid to the
needs of both farmers and buyers. In the case of the first phase of the Colombia
Productive Partnership project, more attention was paid to the productive capacity of the
smallholders than to the commercial entities, the latter requiring greater awareness about
the new opportunities for engagement created by the project.

7.3      Revolving credit mechanisms in rural areas should be designed in line with the
capacity of the user. In the first phase Colombia Productive Partnership project, revolving
funds were an effective tool for mature producer organizations for accessing essential
financing. Established relationships and trust within existing organizations led to the
effective use of these funds. Less mature partnerships however were unable to effectively
utilize these fund mechanisms. Given the very limited repayment rates of immature partner
organizations, a grant scheme would have been a more relevant tool, as the project’s design
had originally proposed.

7.4     Producer Alliances require a differentiation in design that takes into account
trust, relationships, and maturity to determine the level of value added that a
productive partnership project is likely to generate. Coffee producers, for example,
already had mature linkages through the Federation of Coffee Producers, while some other
alliances had access to Government financing. In these cases the value added by the project
may have been minimal, and the funds may have been put to better use in less mature
producer organizations. Likewise, the project could have been grounded in a better
understanding of the effects that conflict has on trust when forming alliances in conflicted
affected areas.

7.5     Productive partnership projects are more likely to succeed when they are part
of an integrated rural development approach. Such an approach would include attention
to binding constraints in the rural space that limit the income earning potential of the farmer
alliances. In Colombia, theses constraints included poor rural infrastructure (storage roads
and power) and weak extension services. These constraints were particularly felt by
productive partnerships engaged in the production of perishable items, where the lack of
cold storage and the high costs of transport limited their income earning opportunities.
                                                  29


References
CIAT (2015). Preliminary Findings. Evidence from the Productive Alliances in Colombia, (Lundy, M.).

Cuevas, C. (2003). Colombia Rural Finance, Access Issues Challenges and Opportunities, World Bank
        Report No. 27269-CO.

Deininger K. and Lavadenz I. (2004). Colombia Land Policy in Transition, World Bank Report October
        2004 No. 55.

Econometria Consultares (2008) Impact Evaluation of Colombia Productive Partnership Project, Bogota.

Econometria Consultares (2008) Beneficiary Assessment of Colombia Productive Partnership Project,
       Bogota.

Fernandez M., Ibanez A., Pena X. (2011). Adjusting the Labor Supply to Mitigate Violent Shocks Evidence
        from Rural Colombia, Policy Research Working Paper No 5684.

Francescutti D., Olarte M. and Munoz G. (2008. Assessment of Financial and Economic results of
        Productive Investments Using a Participatory Methodology, FAO Working Paper LAC 05/10

Independent Evaluation Group (2014a), Project Performance Assessment Report Nigeria, Fadama Phase II
        Project, The World Bank, 2014.

Independent Evaluation Group (2014 b). Lessons from a Decade of Village Development in Sri Lanka. A
        Project Performance Assessment of the Gemi Diriya Phase I Project in Sri Lanka. World Bank
        2014.
Independent Evaluation Group (2015), Project Performance Assessment Report India, Ten Million Women
        and Counting. An Assessment of World Bank Support for Rural Livelihood Development in
        Andra Pradesh, India, The World Bank, March 30, 2015.

Marc, A., Willman A., and Ghazia A. (2013). Societal Dynamics and Fragility, Engaging Societies in
        responding to Fragile Situations, World Bank, Washington DC.

Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Republic of Colombia (2014). Income Generation
         Program An Empirical Analysis (Angulo R., Gómez N., Ramírez, C.) Bogota.

OECD (2015 a), Review of Agricultural Policies Colombia, OECD 2015.

OECD (2015 b), Policy Priorities for Inclusive Development, OECD, January 2015.

Reardon, T., Berdegue J., Escobar G. (2001). Rural Non-Farm Employment and Incomes in Latin America,
        Overview and Policy implications, World Development Volume 29, No. 3. pp. 395-409.

Soler, A. (2003). Colombia Agricultural and Rural Competitiveness, World Bank Paper No: 27523-CO.

Wodon, Q. (2000). Poverty and Policy in Latin America and the Caribbean, World Bank Technical Paper
       No 467.

World Bank project documents (including the Project Appraisal Documents, legal agreements,
       Implementation Completion Reports and supervision reports of both projects).
                                            31                                    ANNEX A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
COLOMBIA - Productive Partnerships Support Project (IBRD-70970)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                            Appraisal          Actual or        Actual as % of
                                            estimate        current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total project costs                           52.3                30.4                58.1
Loan amount                                   32.0                22.0                68.7
Co-financing                                   n/a                n/a                 n/a
Cancellation                                   n/a                n/a                 n/a


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                      FY02       FY03        FY04         FY05       FY06      FY07          FY08
Appraisal estimate     1.3        4.6        11.3         19.4       26.1      31.2          31.2
(US$M)

Actual (US$M)           2.3       2.9         5.3          8.5          13.1   19.3          22.0

Actual as % of         176.9      63.0       46.9          43.8         50.1   61.8          70.5
appraisal

Date of final disbursement: December 2007


Project Dates
                                                     Original                    Actual
Concept Review                                                                 11/17/1999

Negotiations                                                                   11/19/2001

Appraisal                                                                      03/26/2001

Board approval                                                                 01/22/2002

Signing                                                                        04/03/2002

Effectiveness                                                                  05/15/2002

Mid-term Review                                  05/31/2005                    06/17/2005

Closing date                                     09/30/2007                    09/30/2008
ANNEX A                               32


Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank budget only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     US$ 000s (including travel
                                  Staff Weeks (number)
                                                             and consultant costs)

Lending

FY95                                                                 27.80

FY96                                                                 174.31

FY97                                                                 86.64

FY98                                                                 68.93

FY99                                                                 46.01

FY00                                       25                        58.34

FY01                                       34                        106.91

FY02                                       12                        29.75

                         Total:            71                        598.69



Supervision/ICR

FY02                                                                  0.22

FY03                                       18                        236.50

FY04                                       18                        66.37

FY05                                       25                        101.94

FY06                                       21                        83.30

FY07                                       17                        94.48

FY08                                        6                        25.56

                         Total:            105                       608.37
                                               33                ANNEX A



Task Team members
          Name         Title (at time of appraisal and    Unit        Responsibility/
                            closure, respectively)                    Specialty

Lending

Martien van           Sr. Natural Res. Economist         LCSAR   Task Manager before negot.
Nieuwkoop

Pierre Werbrouck      Lead Agric. Economist              LCSAR   Task Manager from negot.

Natalia Gomez         Operations Officer                 LCSAR   Institutional Assessment

Jairo Arboleda        Sr. Social Scientist               LSCEO   Social Assessment

Manish Bapna          Economist                          AFCW2   Econ. and Fin. Analysis

Kirsten Oleson        Operations Analyst                 LCSES   Environmental Assessment

Carmen Nielsen        Procurement Analyst                LCSES   Procurement Aspects

Luis Schwarz          Fin. Mgmt. Spec.                   LCSFM   FM assessment

Mariana Montiel       Legal Counsel                      LEGLA   Negotiations

Erika Feliz-Castaneda Project Assistant (DC)             LCSES   Program Assistant

Clemencia Medina      Project Assistant (Colombia)       LCCCO   Program Assistant

Cornelis van der Meer Peer reviewer                      RDV     Marketing

Chukwudi H. Okafor    Peer reviewer                      CAGGR   Production

Shelton Davis         Peer reviewer                      LCSES   Social Dev.



Supervision/ICR

Marie-Helene Collion Lead Economist                      LCSAR   Task Manager ICR

Pierre Werbrouck      Sr. Agricultural Economist         LCSAR   Task Manager

Natalia Gomez         Rural Development Spec.            LCSAR   Co-Task Manager

Jairo A. Arboleda     Consultant                         LCSHS   Social Specialist

Ann Jeannette Glauber Environmental Specialist           LCSEN   Environment
 ANNEX A                                        34

 Kirsten Oleson          Operations Analyst                       LCSEN             Environment

 Jean-Claude Balcet      Sr. Agriculture Economist                AFCW2             Monitoring/Evaluation

 Jeannette Estupinan     Financial Management Spec.               LCSFM             Financial Management

 Jose M. Martinez        Sr Procurement Spec.                     LCSPT             Procurement

 Dianelva Montas         Program Assistant                        LCSAR             Processing



 Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Ministry of Finance and Public Credit / Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development

Follow-on Operations

Operation                                            Credit no.     Amount            Board date
                                                                  (US$ million)


Second Rural Productive Partnerships Project         IBRD-74840     US$ 30.0        August 21, 2007
                                           35                                ANNEX B


Annex B. List of Persons Met
Issam Abousleiman, Country Manager, World Bank

Daniel Sellen, Program Leader, World Bank

Anibal Fernandez de Soto Camacho, Vice Minister, Ministry of Agriculture

Alejandro Mesa Nieto, PIU Coordinator, PIU

Gerardo R. Espita, Advisor, Ministry of Finance

Marcela Ureña, Director of Rural Development Phase 1, Ministry of Agriculture

Andres Silva, Director of Productive Capacities and Income Generation, Ministry of
Agriculture

Alejandro Mesa Nieto, PIU Coordinator, PIU

Gonzalo Parades Hernandes, Business Expert, PIU

Alvaro Villareal, M&E Expert, PIU

Adriana Soto, Coordinator of Fiduciary Businesses, Fiducoldex Trust Fund Phase 1

Jose Nelson Camello, Social Action Program, Social Protection Directorate

Jesus Rivera, Technical Director , Asufrucol (Fruit Producers Association)

Luis Ariel Borbon, General Manager, Incoder

Emiro Perez, Agricultural Engineer, Local NGO (OGA)

Manibel Diaz, Administrative Director, LA MEJOR Agro-processor

Yamile Quintero, Coordinator, PALMA DEL CESAR Agro-processor

Carolina Rieda and Ricardo Guiterrez, Project Coordinator and Technical
AdvisorRegional Implementing NGO (OGR)

Jaime Casanova, Gabriel Solano, Jose Quintero, Coordinator and Experts Regional
Implementing NGO (OGR)

Marcela Chaves, USAID

Juan Gonzalo Flores, IFC

Arturo Garcia, Econometria Consultores
ANNEX B                                36




Group Interviews with the Producer Organizations

Honey Producer Organization Members     25 Members Bolivar

Milk Producer Organization Members      50 Members Norte Santander

Palm Producer Organization Members      20 Members Santander

Flower Producer Organization Members    20 members   Cundinamarca

Coffee Producer Organization Members    25 members   Huila

Strawberry Producer Organization Members 40 Members Cauca

Black Berry Producer Organization Members 20 members Cundinamarca
                      37     ANNEX C


Annex C. Borrower Comments
ANNEX C   38
39   ANNEX C
ANNEX C   40
41   ANNEX C
ANNEX C   42
43   ANNEX C
ANNEX C   44
45   ANNEX C
ANNEX C   46
47   ANNEX C
ANNEX C   48
49   ANNEX C
ANNEX C   50
51   ANNEX C
ANNEX C   52
