                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank


                                                          Report No: ICR3015




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (IBRD-4712 IBRD-7758 IBRD-7905)



                                      ON LOANS

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$171 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                       FOR THE

  JAVA-BAL1 POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AND STRENGTHENING PROJECT




                                     June 25, 2014


Infrastructure Sector Unit
Indonesia Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 31, 2013)
                  Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (IDR)
                           IDR 1,000 = US$0.088
                            IDR 11,428 = US$1
                              FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 – December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB       Asian Development Bank
AMDAL     Analysis of Impacts on the Living Environment
ANDAL     Environmental Impact Analysis
BKSDA     Office of Natural Resources Conservation Center
BPKP      Board of Supervisors Finance and Development
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CHESS     Community/Health/Environment/Systems/Sustainability
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DGEEU     Directorate General of Electricity and Energy Utilization
DRC       Disaster Recovery Center
DIVSIM    IT Shared Services Unit
EIRR      Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
ERP       Enterprise Resource Planning
ESAMP     Environmental & Social Assessment and Management Plan
FMR       Financial Management Reports
GOI       Government of Indonesia
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDC       Interest During Construction
IPO       Initial Public Offering
IPP       Independent Power Producer
IPTD      Indonesia Power Transmission Development
ISR       Implementation Status Report
IT        Information Technology
JBIC      Japan Bank for International Cooperation
LARPF     Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework
LRMC      Long-run Marginal Cost
MOU       Memorandum of Understanding
NJOP      Taxable Value of Property
NPV       Net Present Value
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCAR      Procurement Capacity Assessment Report
PDO       Project Development Objective
PET       Project Environmental Team
PGN       PT Perusahaan Gas Negara
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PLN       PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara
PMU       Project Management Unit
PSHP      Pumped Storage Hydropower Project
PSO       Public Service Obligation
QPR       Quarterly Progress Report
RFP       Request for Proposals
RKL/RPL   Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan
ROW       Right of Way
SLA       Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SPN       Specific Procurement Notice
TA        Technical Assistance
UKL UPL   Environmental Management Monitoring Procedures
UKLAJPL   Environmental Management and Monitoring Procedures Report



               Vice President:            Axel Van Trotsenberg
               Country Director:          Rodrigo Chaves
               Sector Manager:            Nathan M. Belete
               Project Team Leader:       Dhruva Sahai
               ICR Team Leader:           Dhruva Sahai
                                             REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

  JAVA-BAL1 POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AND STRENGTHENING PROJECT
                                 AND
                      ADDITIONAL LOAN FOR THE
   EXTENDED DEPLOYMENT OF AN ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING SYSTEM
                          IN SUPPORT OF THE
  JAVA-BAL1 POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AND STRENGTHENING PROJECT



                                                       CONTENTS


Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information .......................................................................................................v
  B. Key Dates ....................................................................................................................v
  C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................v
  D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... vi
  E. Bank Staff.................................................................................................................. vi
  F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................... vii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .....................................................................x
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ xi
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. xi

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...............................................7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ...........................................................................................16
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .........................................................29
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................30
  6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................34
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...........35

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...........................................................................36
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ..................................................................................37
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................42
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............47
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................50
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...................................................51
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................53
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................62
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................63
  MAP...............................................................................................................................64
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Java-Bali Power Sector
Country:                Indonesia                Project Name:             Restructuring and
                                                                           Strengthening Project
                                                                           IBRD-47120,IBRD-
Project ID:             P063913                  L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                           77580,IBRD-79050
ICR Date:               06/25/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           INDONESIA
Original Total
                        USD 141.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 150.77M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 158.3M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara
PT Perusahaan Gas Negara (Persero) Tbk
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/28/2000      Effectiveness:          07/07/2004           07/07/2004
                                                                                   06/19/2008
Appraisal:            03/10/2003      Restructuring(s):                            12/22/2009
                                                                                   12/29/2011
Approval:             06/26/2003      Mid-term Review:                             06/16/2008
                                      Closing:                12/31/2008           12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                                         None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       20                    10
Transmission and Distribution of Electricity                            80                    90


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                  50                    80
Other public sector governance                                          50                    20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Axel van Trotsenburg                 Jemal-ud-din-Kassum
Country Director:            Rodrigo A. Chaves                    Andrew Steer
Sector Manager:              Nathan M. Belete                     Mohammad Farhandi (acting)
Project Team Leader:         Dhruva Sahai                         Mohammad Farhandi
ICR Team Leader:             Dhruva Sahai
ICR Primary Author:          Sudhee R. Sen Gupta
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives

The development objective of the Project is to improve the performance of the power sector in
Java-Bali by (a) supporting the State power company (PLN) to implement its financial and
corporate restructuring plan, and to strengthen key elements of the Java-Bali electricity supply
system; and (b) assisting the State gas company (PGN) to prepare the groundwork for
restructuring its gas transmission and distribution operations, given the importance of natural gas
for power generation.


Revised Project Development Objectives
The revised development objective of the project is to improve the reliability and efficiency of the
power system in Java-Bali and strengthen PLN and PGN’s management capabilities.



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval         Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years
                Natural Gas Pricing and PGN's restructuring and partial privatization studies
Indicator 1 :
                completed.
                                           Natural Gas
                Natural Gas Pricing and Pricing and PGN's
Value
                PGN's restructuring and restructuring and
quantitative or                                                              Studies Completed
                partial privatization have partial
Qualitative)
                not been undertaken.       privatization
                                           studies completed.
Date achieved 06/04/2003                   12/31/2008                        11/14/2008
Comments
                Fully achieved. Natural Gas Pricing and PGN's restructuring and partial
(incl. %
                privatization studies were completed in November 2008.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Increased dispatch capability of generation units in East Java.
                                           Additional 2000
Value           Around 2000 MW of          MW of dispatch                    Additional 2,322
quantitative or dispatch capability in     capability by                     MW of dispatch
Qualitative)    2002                       project closing                   capability.
                                           date.
Date achieved 06/04/2003                   12/31/2008                        12/31/2013
                Exceeded Target. Dispatch capability for generation units in East Java has been
Comments
                increased. Due to shifting demand patterns, a Bank financed transformer from S.
(incl. %
                Surabaya S/S was relocated and it shall be replaced upon completion of the
achievement)
                Grati-S Surabaya T/L.
Indicator 3 : Reduced substation loadings at key Java-Bali 500kV and 150kV substations.
Value           The majority of            The majority of                   The majority of
                                              Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                  approval           Target         Completion or
                                                 documents)          Values         Target Years
quantitative or   substations have loadings substations have                     substations have an
Qualitative)      at 80% of the capacity or loadings at 50%-                     average loading of
                  more in 2002.              60% of the                          68.5% of capacity.
                                             capacity.
Date achieved     06/04/2003                 12/31/2008                          12/31/2013
                  Achieved. Due to power demand growth being higher than originally
Comments
                  anticipated, average substation loadings are larger than the original target value.
(incl. %
                  However, the Java-Bali system retains appropriate reliability levels per precise
achievement)
                  available information.
Indicator 4 :     Improved voltages at key 150kV substations in southeastern Java.
                                             The majority of
                  The majority of key
                                             key 150kV
Value             150kV substations
                                             substations                         Majority operating
quantitative or   voltages are operating at
                                             voltages are                        at 100 % capacity
Qualitative)      90% of capacity, or at
                                             operating at 100%
                  135kV in 2002.
                                             of capacity.
Date achieved     06/04/2003                 12/31/2008                          12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Fully achieved.
achievement)
                PLN issues reconciled financial statements for the Java-Bali, Sumatra, and
Indicator 5 :
                Sulawesi Systems within 45 days upon the completion of the fiscal year.
                                                              PLN issues
                                                              reconciled
                                                              financial
                                                              statements for
                                                              Java-Bali,
Value                                     45 days since ERP                   45 days from full
                90 days when performed                        Sumatra, and
quantitative or                           fully deployed in                   deployment of ERP
                manually                                      Sulawesi
Qualitative)                              Java-Bali System.                   system.
                                                              systems within
                                                              45 days upon
                                                              the completion
                                                              of PLN’s
                                                              fiscal year.
Date achieved 06/19/2008                  12/31/2008          12/31/2013      12/31/2013
Comments        Fully achieved. PLN is issuing reconciled financial statements for Java-Bali,
(incl. %        Sumatra, and Sulawesi systems within 45 days upon the completion of PLN’s
achievement) fiscal year.
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                                Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                    approval                      Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                 documents)                        Target Years
                  Implementation milestones and the commissioning dates of 500kV substation
Indicator 1 :
                  expansions.
Value                                         Completed by                      Completed by
(quantitative     Component not begun. project closing                          revised project
or Qualitative)                               date.                             closing date.
Date achieved     06/04/2003                  12/31/2008                        12/31/2013
                  All substations completed and commissioned. Due to shifting demand patterns, a
Comments
                  Bank financed transformer from S. Surabaya S/S was relocated and shall be
(incl. %
                  replaced at a later date by PLN using its own budget, upon the completion of the
achievement)
                  Grati-S Surabaya T/L
                  Implementation milestones and the commissioning dates of 150kV substation
Indicator 2 :
                  expansions and uprated lines.
                                                                                The substation
                                                                                expansions have
Value                                         Completed by
                                                                                been completed and
(quantitative     Upgrade not begun.          project closing
                                                                                two of the seven
or Qualitative)                               date.
                                                                                150 kV lines have
                                                                                been completed.
Date achieved     06/04/2003                  12/31/2008                        12/31/2013
Comments          Five transmission lines are delayed due to issues with land acquisition from
(incl. %          private landowners, and with obtaining Ministry of Forestry's clearances.
achievement)      Negotiations with landowners under a new land acquisition law are ongoing.
                  ERP system deployed to entire Java-Bali System after completing initial pilot
Indicator 3 :
                  roll-out.
                                                                  ERP           ERP system
                                                                 successfully successfully
Value
                  PLN does not employ         ERP successfully completed in completed and
(quantitative
                  ERP system.                 completed.         Java Bali,     deployed in Java,
or Qualitative)
                                                                 Sumatra and Bali, Sumatra, and
                                                                 Sulawesi.      Sulawesi.
Date achieved     06/04/2003                  12/31/2008         12/31/13       12/31/13
                  The ERP pilot in Java-Bali was completed by October 2008 and the ERP system-
Comments
                  wide rollout was completed by January 2009. The extended deployment of the
(incl. %
                  ERP system in Sumatra and Sulawesi was completed by December 31, 2013.
achievement)
                Progress report on PLN TA - Supplemental Study on Upper Cisokan Pumped
Indicator 4 :
                Storage Project to increase peak power generation capacity.
                                                                            Study on Upper
                                                                            Cisokan PSP (as a
Value
                                                                            means of increasing
(quantitative   TA has not begun.          TA completed.
                                                                            peak power
or Qualitative)
                                                                            generation
                                                                            capacity)
                                                                             completed.
Date achieved 06/04/2004                    12/31/2008                       06/29/2007
Comments        The TA was completed in June 2007, It was a critical input in the preparation of
(incl. %        the Upper Cisokan PSP project, approved May 26, 2011, and now under
achievement) implementation.
Indicator 5 : Progress on TA studies for PGN.
                                                                             TA studies
                                                                             completed through
                                            TA studies                       combined use of
Value
                                            completed by                     PGN and loan
(quantitative   TA studies not begun.
                                            project closing                  funds. Balance of
or Qualitative)
                                            date.                            Higher education
                                                                             program cancelled
                                                                             in 2009.
Date achieved 06/04/2003                    12/31/2008                       11/14/2008
                The Gas Pricing, and the Restructuring and Privatization studies were completed
Comments
                on time. PGN decided to use its own funds to finance the balance of the TA
(incl. %
                activities, primarily the Higher Education Program. The unused loan balance
achievement)
                was cancelled.



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     10/14/2003         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        0.00
  2     05/27/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        0.00
  3     06/16/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        0.00
  4     10/07/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        1.41
  5     03/21/2005     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 1.41
  6     03/22/2006     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 4.68
  7     06/20/2006     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 6.75
  8     06/27/2006     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 7.31
  9     06/27/2007     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               28.98
 10     05/10/2008     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               41.75
 11     11/22/2008     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               76.67
 12     04/15/2009         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      94.26
 13     08/08/2009         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      96.83
 14     02/27/2010         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     118.80
 15     04/12/2011         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory              125.76
 16     03/11/2012     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              125.94
                                                      Moderately
 17     03/22/2013     Moderately Satisfactory                                         138.96
                                                    Unsatisfactory
 18     10/22/2013     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               146.23
H. Restructuring (if any)

                              ISR Ratings at   Amount
                   Board      Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                                 Reason for Restructuring &
                 Approved                    Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                       Key Changes Made
               PDO Change DO           IP       in USD
                                               millions
              To improve the
              reliability and
              efficiency of                                  Revise PDO and indicators.
              the power                                      Extend closing date to
              System in                                      12/31/2009.
 06/19/2008 Java-Bali and       MS    MS           42.96     Remove certain corporate
              strengthen                                     restructuring activities.
              PLN and                                        Reallocation of proceeds.
              PGN’s
              management
              capabilities.
                                                             To allow for the completion of
  12/22/2009                    S      S        109.76
                                                             unfinished transmission lines.
                                                             To allow for the completion of
  12/29/2011                    S     MS        125.94
                                                             unfinished transmission lines.




I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.        In the aftermath of Indonesia’s financial crisis and political remake, the World Bank revisited its
entire strategy towards Indonesia. To many Indonesians, the Bank was then associated with the old “New
Order” regime, which it had supported for 32 years. The Bank was also associated with debt, perhaps
Indonesia’s most visible economic problem in the post crisis years. Between 2000 and 2003, the Bank
actively confronted these weaknesses and in close consultation with the new Government of Indonesia,
lending volumes were sharply reduced dramatically from an average of US$1.3 billion per year before the
crisis, to about US$450 million over those three years1.

2.      Two main factors - Indonesia’s new decentralization strategy and the Bank’s commitment to
improve transparency and effectiveness in the use of its funds - called for new delivery mechanisms. The
top-down approach to the provision of public services under the old New Order regime was no longer an
option for Indonesia or the Bank. However, decentralization of responsibility to local levels, the new way
of doing business, also posed significant challenges. It was during this period of rapid change in
governance and institutions that the Java Bali Power Sector Restructuring and Strengthening Project (the
“Project”) was prepared.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

3.       Governance reform and the new decentralization strategy, were also reflected in the various
institutional reorganizations taking place at the time of appraisal. The country’s main electricity utility
PLN, was one of the entities also undergoing drastic change. In addition to being caught up in the
country’s decentralization, it was also in the process of being fundamentally restructured.

4.      The financial crisis had a more profound impact on Indonesia’s power sector than on those of
other countries in the region. The substantial devaluation of the Rupiah caused by the crisis transformed
PLN from a moderately profitable company into one unable to meet its obligations for foreign currency-
denominated debt service payments, fuel costs, and power purchases from private independent power
producers (IPPs). The crisis also exposed shortcomings in the sector’s governance structure which were
already present prior to the crisis, particularly in terms of PLN’s monopolistic organization, and the
absence of competitiveness and transparency in Indonesia’s IPP program (which primarily depended on
unsolicited proposals). In addition, the lack of funds flowing into the broader energy sector since the
crisis meant that there was an urgent need for both substantial investment in new electricity infrastructure
and rehabilitation of existing power assets, as well as investment in the upstream infrastructure used to
supply fuel for power generation, particularly natural gas.

5.      The Government therefore needed to strengthen not only the physical components of the power
system, but also to develop the capacity of key sector institutions to function in a competitive electricity
market. Although, the demand for power declined in the immediate aftermath of the crisis, as Indonesia
recovered from the financial crisis, demand began to rebound and there was a need to strengthen the
power system, remove bottlenecks and achieve greater utilization of existing generation capacity in Java-


1
    World Bank Report No. 27246-IND



                                                     1
Bali. PLN thus needed to make critical investments to build additional generation and transmission
capacity at the time, and needed to undergo the ADB designed corporate restructuring to also comply
with the 2002 Electricity Law (20/2002) that would introduce a competitive power market. The Project
components were therefore designed to (i) strengthen the power system network, (ii) comply with the
2002 Electricity Law; and (iii) support PLN’s financial and corporate restructuring.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

6.       The development objective of the Project is to improve the performance of the power sector on
Java-Bali by: (a) supporting the State power company (PLN) to implement its financial and corporate
restructuring plan, and to strengthen key elements of the Java-Bali electricity supply system; and (b)
assisting the State gas company (PGN) to prepare the groundwork for restructuring its gas transmission
and distribution operations, given the importance of natural gas for power generation.

7.       This objective was to be achieved through the provision of Bank financing toward priority
investments and technical assistance for PLN, and technical assistance for PGN. In particular, project
components for PLN would: (i) support PLN’s financial and corporate restructuring, by providing
technical assistance and by enhancing the company’s information systems capabilities; (ii) achieve greater
utilization of existing generation capacity in East Java, by relieving constraints in the bulk transmission
grid; (iii) improve the reliability of existing generation supply at the PLN and independent power
producer (IPP) geothermal power plants in West Java, by strengthening the associated local transmission
system; and (iv) improve the reliability of power supply at various locations throughout Java and Bali, by
strengthening and debottlenecking local transmission and sub-transmission networks. Technical
assistance to PGN would enhance its capabilities for expanding gas utilization in Java.

8.       The original Loan Agreement had a simpler statement of the project objectives: “to assist the
Borrower in improving the provision of electricity and gas to consumers in the Borrower’s Project
Provinces.” During the initial years of implementation the PDO statement in the PAD was used in project
reporting and assessment because it was more specific, adhered more closely to the project’s key
indicators, and stated the objectives and outcomes in more monitorable terms. While the underlying
rationale of the investments was that the benefits of an improved power sector would accrue to energy
consumers, the attributable outcome of the project was to improve (and measure) system performance and
institutional capacity rather than directly measuring electricity and gas provision to consumers.

9.       The key performance indicators of the project were: (i) the establishment of independent
distribution, transmission and generation successor companies from PLN’s operations in Java-Bali; (ii)
improvements in PLN’s rate of return on revalued net fixed assets; (iii) increased dispatch capability of
generation units at the Paiton, Grati and Gresik complexes in East Java; (iv) reduced substation
percentage loadings at Mandirancan, Krian, and Klaten 500kV substations in Java; (v) reduced substation
percentage loadings at key 150kV substations throughout Java-Bali; and (vi) improved voltages at key
150kV substations in southeastern Java. In addition, PGN should have completed the documentation
outlining the framework and implementation plans for: (i) unbundling its transmission and distribution
functions to create an appropriate corporate structure; (ii) preparing for an IPO or some other form of
private equity participation of part of its distribution operations; and (iii) attracting a strategic partner for
its transmission operations.

10.     The Project Design Summary in Annex 1 of the PAD had some differences from the main text in
terms of how the indicators were worded or grouped (PDO versus intermediate, or combining two
indicators into one), in particular for the PGN-related indicators. However these discrepancies were more
                                                       2
presentational than substantive, and are therefore documented in Annex 2 rather than explained at length
here.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Revised PDO

11.   To improve the reliability and efficiency of the power system in Java-Bali and strengthen PLN
and PGN’s management capabilities.

12.      The project was to have determined how PLN’s corporate structure would be amended to comply
with the competitive power market and related demonopolization and unbundling requirements of the
2002 Electricity Law. However, in December 2004, as a result of movement by PLN’s labor unions and
others, the Constitutional Court annulled the 2002 Electricity Law due to which the legal basis for
undertaking the corporate restructuring was curtailed. It was expected that the Government would revise
the Law, and issue a new law shortly thereafter. However, by late 2005, a new Law had yet to be issued,
and PLN came to an agreement with the Bank to explore alternate corporate restructuring activities that
may be undertaken under the existing legal circumstances (Management Letter, November 2005). PLN,
with the assistance of international consultants, reviewed available options, and notified the Bank in
November 2006 of their decision to have a moratorium on restructuring activities to avoid significantly
altering their institutional set-up when the sector was in a state of flux and its future structure was unclear.

13.     The Bank immediately suspended the corporate restructuring study and took stock of the project.
The Bank considered both options, restructuring and cancellation and realized that if the project were
cancelled it would undermine system reliability and put the entire power system in a precarious position.

14.     The Bank determined that:

            a. The project was still highly relevant with respect to strengthening the power system. At
               each time the load flow diagrams were reviewed and it was found that the investments
               were still critical.
            b. PLN had completed the ERP pilot, which was rated highly satisfactory and PLN wanted
               to and was ready to deploy the system to all business units in Java-Bali which would
               strengthen PLN’s management capabilities.
            c. PLN had also overcome the initial delays in implementing the physical components with
               all contracts for goods signed and construction underway. These investments were key to
               strengthening the power transmission network in order to better utilize existing power
               generation capacity. The components had taken on even greater importance because of
               the critical need to facilitate the integration of recent generation capacity expansion in the
               Java-Bali grid.
            d. The project in its restructured form would continue to be viable.

15.      The Bank therefore recommended that the corporate restructuring sub-component be removed
and focused the project on the remaining and highly relevant components. The revised PDO approved by
the Board on June 19, 2008 dropped the objective related specifically to the institutional and corporate
restructuring of PLN and articulated in simpler terms the objective of strengthening PLN and PGN’s
management capabilities. In addition, the output and outcome indicators were expanded to account for the

                                                       3
impact of the full deployment of the ERP system throughout Java-Bali. The existing outcome indicators
of the project, which were related to the improvement in the Java-Bali power network, remained
unchanged since the project continued to implement and complete the important work on the physical
components to strengthen the power network. The revised PDO dropped some superfluous phrases and
replaced improved “performance” with improved “reliability and efficiency” of the power system in order
to set clearer measures for the achievement of outcomes rather than a measure of only outputs which the
previous statements captured. In effect, it simplified the statement while retaining its two key elements
(system performance and institutional capacity).

16.      In 2010 an additional financing component of US$ 30 million was also added to expand the ERP
program across PLN’s operations in other locations, specifically Sumatra and Sulawesi. This extension of
the ERP system is fully consistent with the World Bank’s latest Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) that
focuses on "investing in Indonesia's institutions". More specifically, it supports Core Engagement 2 – to
support the development of infrastructure by helping "strengthen the capacity and accountability of
institutions" to deliver better outcomes. Overall, other than the removal of the restructuring component
and the related indicators, there were no other changes in any of the indicators including for the ERP
additional financing which would help to meet the same respective indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

17.      Specific beneficiaries mentioned in the text of the Project document include PLN, some industrial
consumers and “all groups of consumers”. Since the physical project includes transmission and
substations and the ERP and TA, it improves efficiency and effectiveness of PLN, the “primary target
group” is indicated by inference – including the presumption of “inferred access”. While the true, long-
term beneficiaries are the population whose well-being relies on efficient and reliable power supply, the
outcomes directly attributable to the project are defined in more technical terms since “economic and
environmental benefits for all groups of consumers” are not easily measured nor isolated from other
factors, particularly in the implementation time frame of the project.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1 - Power System Strengthening (500kV Transmission System) (US$69.8 million)

18.      The Project would support PLN’s initiatives to (a) achieve greater utilization of existing
generation capacity in Java-Bali, (b) improve the security of supply to the cities of Cirebon and Surabaya,
and (c) debottleneck local interconnections between bulk transmission and subtransmission levels, by: (i)
expanding existing 500kV substations; and (ii) installing new 500kV circuit breakers. Total cost of this
component is US$69.8 million (including contingencies and VAT), with IBRD financing of US$50.0
million.




                                                    4
Component 2 - Power System Strengthening (150kV Subtransmission System) (US$90.4 million)

19.      The Project would support PLN’s initiatives to (a) provide a level of security commensurate with
the existing and potential PLN and IPP geothermal generation capacity evacuated2 through the West Java
150kV subtransmission network near Bandung, (b) improve security of supply to Surabaya, and (c)
relieve multiple localized overloading and voltage problems at subtransmission level-via PLN’s
150/70kV and 150/20kV transformer replacement and substation expansion program-by: (i) uprating
existing 150kV subtransmission lines; (ii) expanding existing 150kV substations; and (iii) installing
150kV circuit breakers. Total cost of this component is US$90.4 million (including contingencies and
VAT), with IBRD financing of US$60.1 million.

Component 3 - PLN Enterprise Resource Planning System (US$ 26 million)

20.     The Project will support PLN to implement a pilot rollout of the company’s Enterprise Resource
Planning (ERP) information system. The focus of this pilot will be core financial, materials management,
human resources management and asset management in PLN Pusat and three representative subsidiary
business units. This component will help to facilitate PLN’s corporate and financial restructuring. Total
cost of this component is US$26.0 million, with IBRD financing of US$20.0 million. Activities under
this component that were to be undertaken after appraisal completion but prior to effectiveness (using
IBRD procurement procedures), would be eligible for retroactive financing under the loan.

Component 4 - PLN Restructuring and Institutional Strengthening (Technical Assistance) (US$4.5
million)

21.       The Project would also support PLN’s restructuring program as well as its institutional
strengthening initiatives-through technical assistance for: (i) finalizing an action plan for the business
reorganization and corporate restructuring of PLN; (ii) facilitating the implementation of that Plan; and
(iii) strengthening PLN’s core capacity for environmental and social management. (Consultancy services
for items (i) and (iii) would be financed by PLN). IBRD financing of item (ii) is US$ 2 million.
Additional TA (IBRD financing US$ 1.5 million) would be provided to PLN for reviewing the detailed
design and cost estimate of the Upper Cisokan pumped storage generating plant on Java. Total cost of this
component is US$ 4.5 million, with IBRD financing of US$ 3.5 million.

Component 5 - PGN Restructuring and Institutional Strengthening (Technical Assistance) (US$ 6
million)

22.     The Project would support PGN’s restructuring and institutional strengthening initiatives, through
technical assistance for: (i) gas utilization and pricing; (ii) PGN corporate restructuring (including the
preparation of an information systems framework); (iii) PGN gas distribution IPO; (iv) PGN gas
transmission strategic partner; and (v) PGN capacity building and training. Total cost of this component is
US$6 million, with IBRD financing of US$6 million.




2
  “Evacuate” is a common power sector term used to describe the absorption of the power generated by a power plant into the
grid normally for delivery to users.



                                                              5
1.6 Revised Components

23.     The revised Development Objective was to be achieved through the provision of Bank financing
toward priority investments and technical assistance for PLN, and technical assistance for PGN. In
particular, project components for PLN would: (i) achieve greater utilization of existing generation
capacity on East Java, by relieving constraints in the bulk transmission grid; (ii) improve the reliability of
existing generation supply at the PLN and independent power producer (IPP) geothermal power plants on
West Java, by strengthening the associated local transmission system; (iii) improve the reliability of
power supply at various locations throughout Java and Bali, by strengthening and debottlenecking local
transmission and sub-transmission networks; and (iv) by strengthening PLN's management capabilities by
enhancing the company's information systems. Technical assistance to PGN will enhance its capabilities
for expanding gas utilization on Java.

24.       The proposed changes were intended to:

         Focus the project on the important investments related to improving the electricity system and
          strengthening the transmission network (Components 1 & 2);

         Expand the implementation of the successful pilot ERP to further strengthen PLN’s information
          systems and management capabilities (Component 3); and

         Remove the major corporate and financial restructuring activities that are beyond the capacity of
          PLN and the project given the present legal and policy environment in the power sector in
          Indonesia (sub-component of Component 4).

Component 5 on technical assistance to PGN was to remain unchanged, and therefore, all proposed
changes in the Project Paper only apply to Components 1-4 with PLN.




1.7 Other significant changes

25.      The first restructuring of the project was approved on June 19, 2008. As described in the context
of the revised PDO in Section 1.3, it included the following specific changes:

         Removal of the major sector restructuring activities of the project because the legal basis for
          successfully implementing them no longer exists due to the annulment of the 2002 Electricity
          Law by the Constitutional Court of Indonesia.
                                                      6
         Expanding the deployment of the Enterprise Resource System (ERP) to include the entire Java-
          Bali power system capitalizing on the successful pilot so that the financial, material, and human
          resource management of PLN can be further strengthened.

         Extend the closing date of the project by one year to December 31, 2009 in order to accommodate
          the initial implementation delays so that the important physical components can be successfully
          completed.

26.       In addition to the above there were two more extensions approved for the project.

         Second extension – December 2009: The project was extended by 24 months in December 2009
          primarily for the purpose of completing two transmission line packages that were delayed in
          execution. PLN also provided a specific action plan with identifiable milestones to complete all
          outstanding work. These milestones were prepared to provide reasonable assurance of adequate
          monitoring and follow up so that the work could be expected to be completed by the new
          completion date.

         Third extension – December 2011: The project was extended by another 24 months in December
          2011 for the last time primarily for the purpose of completing the same two transmission line
          packages that were delayed in execution. As of the ICR mission in December 2013, the lines are
          still not complete.

27.     There was also a major change in one of the physical components of the project. The transmission
components of the physical project were for uprating existing transmission lines (seven segments).
However in 2005 or thereabouts, PLN decided that instead of uprating the transmission lines, they would
need to build a parallel line to each segment. This was because, the uprating would require a somewhat
protracted shut down of the lines causing a loss of power to major population centers such as Bandung
and also prevent PLN from evacuating power from certain IPPs with whom PLN had take-or-pay
contracts.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

28.      The key factors effecting implementation and outcomes are project preparation and design, in
case of the transmission lines and arrangements for post completion operations, in the case of the ERP
system. When the project was first approved in 2003 it was for an uprating of existing transmission lines.
In 2005 or thereabouts it was found that uprating the transmission lines would mean having to shut the
line down for a protracted period leaving the communities they served without power. There would also
be a loss of revenue for PLN estimated to be around IDR 710 billion or approximately US$ 60 million. It
is not clear from the documents and interviews, why this finding was not incorporated during project
preparation and what changed between June 2003, when the project was first approved, and circa 2005,
when the decision might have been made to go to a parallel configuration. It is important to resolve this
question, as a decision to have a parallel configuration at the outset, would have forced safeguards
triggers and pre-approval review of some of the key issues, forestry related ones in particular, which have
impeded the full implementation of five transmission lines. The consequences of this decision in
preparation and design and the subsequent change has cascaded through the project, requiring two
additional extensions and generating issues that would have been best addressed prior to project approval.
Upon the decision to do the parallel lines, PLN and the Bank had intensive communications on how to

                                                      7
resolve the safeguards issues and prepare the instruments needed, by conducting workshops and several
assessments. This resulted in the preparation of a UKL UPL in 2007 that was finally completed in April
2008 causing a two-year delay from the time the contracts were originally signed in March 2006.

29.      Although actual deployment of the ERP system was successful—it is up and running and is
generating cost savings and other benefits for PLN—the system also has been plagued by chronic
understaffing and lack of project management. While this has not seriously limited its benefits to date,
insufficient staffing and weak arrangements for ongoing operation and maintenance may increasingly
jeopardize its outcomes over time. As the project closes, the consultants for the first three phases of ERP
implementation are likely to be leaving to implement an additional two phases. This will severely impair
the capability of the ERP system to function optimally and could lead to a loss of the efficiency and
effectiveness gains that have been achieved.


2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

30.     As described in Sections 1 and 1.1 above, this project was prepared during a time of transition.
There were vast changes taking place in the country as well as in its institutions and in PLN in particular.
As mentioned above, PLN was undergoing dramatic change in terms of the overall decentralization trend
in the country and at the same time, its own reorganization to meet the objectives of the restructuring
under ADB. While this was going on, there was also push back from the employees and the union in
particular, resisting the changes. According to the task manager at the time, various departments and
divisions were dismantled or decentralized, staff with whom the Bank had been working through the
years were removed or reassigned to alternate areas, with the consequent lack of continuity not only in
terms of personnel and institutional memory but also in terms of availability of information and data
necessary for preparing projects.

31.      The situation at the time was further compounded by changes taking place within the Bank itself.
According to the task managers interviewed, after the hiatus over the preceding three years, where
lending had had been drastically reduced, there was a renewed push to get projects going again with some
urgency and in particular, in the case of this Project, to have it approved by the end of the Bank’s 2003
fiscal year. At the same time there reportedly was also some reorganization going on within the Bank, in
the sector and country departments, and the task team leader was, at the time of project preparation, also
the acting Sector Director. The project appraisal document was issued on June 6, 2003, the negotiations
reportedly took place over the phone late into one night after that and the project was approved by the
Board on June 26, 2003.

32.      While completing the project preparation in time, under these reportedly trying circumstances,
was truly an accomplishment on part of the Task Team, it appears in hind sight that some tradeoffs were
likely to have been made between the demands of the political economy and the Bank’s relationship with
the country on the one hand, and Quality at Entry and Project Design on the other.

33.      The reasons behind the original decision to uprate the transmission lines instead of building a
second parallel line is as yet unclear. Whatever was known in 2005, when the decision to change from
uprating the lines to building the parallel lines was made, would most likely have been already known in
2003 when the project was prepared. It is possible that due to the reported flux in personnel at PLN and
the shifting departmental responsibilities, the necessary data on load flows, evacuation needs (including
for contractual obligations under IPPs) and demand information might not have been available in time for

                                                     8
the project preparation schedule. It is also possible that in view of the additional time that the safeguards
work would entail if parallel lines had to be built and the need to get the project approved in the 2003
fiscal year, the decision was made to uprate the lines instead. After nearly a decade, it is difficult to tell.
However, it appears certain from interviews with the task team leaders, that there was tremendous
pressure on the team to get the loan approved in the 2003 fiscal year, largely for reasons of political
economy.

34.     It is also not clear, given the unsettled organizational situation in PLN with regard to the
decentralizations and the restructuring, and the apparent resistance to these changes on the part of PLN
staff and management, why the restructuring component was included in the project. It is likely to have
increased the risk of the project significantly. This risk, which was rated moderate in the PAD document,
did in the event prove to be significant and the mitigation measures (“A change management initiative
and public awareness campaign have already been prepared for PLN by Bank-financed consultants”)
were inadequate and eventually irrelevant when the electricity law was annulled. While the risk was high,
the annulment of the electricity law was of course neither foreseeable nor manageable from the
perspective of the restructuring component 3.

35.     These two decisions, i.e., uprating instead of parallel lines and inclusion of the restructuring plan
in the project given the risk at the time, have cascaded through the implementation of the project
contributing directly and indirectly to many of the delays and changes in the project. Fortunately both of
these were only a small part of the overall project both in terms of total cost and achievement of tangible
outcomes4.

2.2 Implementation

36.      Implementation progress was generally well monitored with actions under the control of the task
and the counterpart teams being pursued assiduously and with diligence. As explained earlier, the project
was restructured in 2008. Under this restructured configuration, the project’s components can be most
logically grouped as (i) Substation investments, including transformers and switchgear (US$ 121.67
million or 66% of the original total project cost of US$ 184.2 million); (ii) Transmission lines (150 kV)
(US$26 million or 14% of the original project cost); (iii) The ERP TA (US$26 million or 14% of the total
project cost); and (iv) Other TA (US$ 10.1 million or 5.4% of original project cost). In 2010 an additional
financing component of US$ 30 million was also added to expand the ERP program across PLN
operations in other locations. The goods portion of the package was US$147.67 million of which the
Bank covered US$110.1 million




3
    Since the Charter of the Bank prevents it from interfering in the political processes of a country.
4
  The stated outcome “Establishment of PLN's independent generation, distribution and transmission successor companies on
Java-Bali” was strictly speaking an output with “competitive electricity markets” as its outcome, which would be intangible.


                                                                    9
   The substation investments including transformers and switchgear (82% of the physical project)
    were 100% completed by December 2012.

   The ERP implementation pilot was completed in October 2008 and the ERP systems installation
    for the rollout was completed in January 2009.

   All the TA has been delivered.

   Of the seven transmission lines in the project only two have been 100% completed so far. The
    other five are in various stages of completion. Construction work in all five lines is held up due to
    PLN being unable to secure clearances from BKSDA (Office of Natural Resources Conservation)
    for traversing conservation forests or due to delays in securing the right of way from Perhutani
    (State owned enterprise under the Ministry of Forestry), or from private landowners who are
    claiming settlement amounts in excess of what is allowed by law. The table below is illustrative.

                    Table 2: Transmission line packages and completion status

                       Package                                        Completion
                                                                      Status % as of
                                                                      December 31, 2013
                       3A
              i        150kV Bandung Selatan – Kamojang               87.7
              ii       150kV Wayang Windu Incomer                     100
              iii      150kV Kamojang Drajat                          83.5
              iv       150kV Tasikmalaya Ciamis                       85.1
                       3B
              v        150kV Drajat Garut                             41.6
              vi       150kV Garut Tasikmalaya                        74.0
                       6
              vii      150kV Perak Ujung                              100



                                                10
37.      This issue has been continuing since 2009 and has resulted in the Government requesting and
receiving from the Bank, the two additional extensions after the first restructuring as mentioned above.
Both issues have serious and sensitive political economy implications, and while the Government, PLN
and the Bank have been working closely to resolve the issue as part of project supervision, it was unlikely
that the political economy issues would be resolved in time and although all the procurement of materials
have been completed as planned, the lines had not been completed by the time the project closed in
December 2013. It has been agreed that PLN will complete the lines with its own funds once the right of
way issues are resolved.

38.   It is important to note that both PLN and the Government have shown their continued
commitment to the project evidenced by:

    1. A budget commitment for 2014 and indicative 2015 for the completion. It should be reiterated in
       this context that all the procurement for goods has been completed.
    2. A project completion plan has been provided by PLN which shows that the lines would be
       completed within six months of the political economy issues being resolved.
    3. A new law has been passed on land settlement issues (Law 2/2012) along with a Ministerial
       regulation that will address many if not most of the open issues. At the time of the ICR mission,
       PLN was awaiting the issuance of the Permen prior to revisiting the option of seeking the District
       Court’s intervention with the resolution of ROW compensation disputes.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design

39.     The main tasks associated with monitoring and reporting during the implementation process were
to be carried out by PLN Project Java-Bali, while the responsibility of coordination among all the parties
concerned is with the PIU. A Master Implementation Schedule was prepared by the PIU, which
comprised of several modules covering site preparation, environmental management, procurement,
design, supply, construction, testing and commissioning. PLN Project Java-Bali also prepared detailed
schedules for site survey and preparation, and worked out with each contractor/supplier, schedules
covering equipment design, manufacturing, shipping and delivery, construction and installation, testing
and commissioning, in line with the master schedule. The purpose of these scheduling activities was to
provide a continual assessment not only on the predicted completion date but also of where schedule
slippages were occurring so that remedial action could be taken in a timely manner.


Implementation

40.      The PIU, in accordance to the monitoring plan, prepares Progress Reports every quarter. The last
update was September 30, 2013. These reports cover all aspects related to project implementation,
including but not limited to: project implementation status, progress made in the last quarter,
procurement, financial management, construction, installation, schedule and cost control, issues/problems
and actions. Progress and status of implementing the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and the
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework (LARPF) are also being included in the quarterly
reports. At Project completion, a borrower completion report was prepared to assess the achievement of


                                                    11
project objectives, to assess the project design and implementation experience, to draw upon lessons
learned, and to prepare plans for project operation.

Utilization

41.      These quarterly reports have been very useful as a monitoring tool and are not merely self-
evaluative, as they might have been absent a well-designed monitoring and evaluation framework. A
further verification of the value of the monitoring tools have been the ISRs which are prepared every year
and include a thorough evaluation not only of project implementation but also of the effectiveness of the
monitoring and evaluation tools such as the QPR.

42.     Finally, PLN has regularly made good use of the Bank’s Supervision Mission Aide Memoires,
which incorporated information from the QPR and the Bank’s guidance on it, to review and make
changes if necessary to their implementation processes for this (and other) projects. PLN Management
have repeatedly thanked the Bank Team for its thorough assessment of the project during each
supervision mission.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement

43.    Given that the PGN part is very small, the procurement capacity assessment has focused mainly
on PLN. Nevertheless, a brief assessment on PGN is also provided in the Procurement Capacity
Assessment Report (PCAR), carried out in line with the Bank’s requirements. A brief summary of the
assessment is on file.

44.      As a part of PLN’s decentralization program, its central procurement unit (that was previously
responsible for procurement under the Bank financed projects) was abolished in 2000 and most of the
experienced procurement staff were reassigned to positions not directly related to procurement. While
these decentralized regional Project Units were familiar with the GO1’s procurement regulations and
procedures, at project commissioning there was a lack of direct experience with ICB. However, with the
number of projects under construction through the 10,000 MW investment program, most of these branch
offices have acquired substantial procurement experience. To mitigate any possible risks associated with
this inexperience and to ensure successful implementation of the project, the following actions were
taken:

       A project management unit (PMU) was set up at PLN’s head office, a Project Office was
        established initially in Semarang which was subsequently moved to Gandul, and PIUs were
        created at project locations.

       A Procurement Committee, comprising of 9-11 members from the Java-Bali Project Unit as well
        as from PLN’s Head Office was set up with 3 members having had prior experience with ICBs,
        including one senior procurement specialist, who has extensive experience with Bank financed
        procurement.

       The Bank provided a procurement training program from April 23-24, 2003 and subsequent
        training thereafter.


                                                   12
45.     The overall risk associated with the procurement was assessed as average because: (a) a number
of PLN PIU staff who had subsequently been selected by the staff team, had extensive experience with
ICB; (b) all goods contracts would be subject to ICB procedures and Bank prior review; and (c) adequate
arrangements were in place for the implementation of PGN’s TA component.

46.     In course of the project restructurings the procurement plan was modified with approval of the
Bank, and due to the delays caused by the political issues of right of way, some of the costs had to be
revised upwards with No Objections from the Bank. In all, the procurement of all goods and consultant
services were completed within the allocated resource envelope, and in compliance with Bank and
project-specific requirements and policies. Certain amendments to contracts were negotiated between
PLN and the contractors which included price escalations, and extensions of time for which the Bank
advised PLN following project close, to get the methodology and calculations confirmed from its internal
audit division and/or BPKP and proceed accordingly.

Financial Management

47.      The Project’s financial management system, including its accounting, budgeting, internal controls,
and funds flow, financial reporting, and auditing, was acceptable to the Bank. With few exceptions, PLN
has been submitting the Financial Management Reports (FMRs) to the Bank on a regular basis. PLN also
has submitted the audit reports (all with unqualified opinion) to the Bank on a timely basis. The audit
reports are published on PLN’s website. Improvements in the accounting of loan transactions were noted
in the final year of the project, and no prolonged delays were identified as had been the case during
project implementation.

48.      During the project, issues with slow payment processes remained unresolved despite PLN
management’s initiative of setting a maximum time for processing of payments. The average number of
days from invoice submission by vendors through actual payment was still high. Many factors
contributed to the problem, namely: (i) delays in SLA budget approval, (ii) incomplete documentation
submitted by vendors, (iii) delays in the submission of supporting documents from the project office to
PLN’s Treasury Division at headquarters, (iv) delays in completing the Government’s document
requirements (Surat Keterangan Tanggung Jawab Mutlak - SKTJM) 5 for fund disbursement, and (v)
delays in document verification by the Directorate of Investment System and Management (Direktorat
Sistem dan Manajemen Investasi- SMI) at the Ministry of Finance. It should be noted that these delays
are not limited to the project only but endemic in PLN and partly because staff are extra careful to ensure
that all documents are complete in every respect and work to rule in view of potential incarceration of
government staff that might sometimes take place for violations.

Environment

49.     The project was rated Category B at entry. An Environmental & Social Assessment and
Management Plan (EMP) for the Project was prepared by PLN in which the World Bank Group’s
safeguards policies on social and environmental issues were fully addressed. The EMP draft was



5
  SKTJM (based on MOF decree 193/209) is a statement letter stipulating that the person signing the letter is accountable for any state loss
incurred and is willing to indemnify the state for the loss.




                                                                       13
discussed at stakeholder consultation meetings according to E.5.4 Environmental Category: B (Partial
Assessment). Although OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment and OP/BP 4.12 Involuntary Settlement6
were triggered for the project, as no other new transmission lines were included in the original plan, the
EMP indicated that adverse environmental and social impacts of all of the Project's planned physical Sub-
components would be minor, and easily manageable. The EMP approved of Indonesia's environmental
impact assessment documentation, namely ANDAL/RKL/RPL and UKLAJPL; institutional
responsibilities for monitoring and enforcing implementation of RKWRPL and UKLAJPL
recommendations: requirements and approaches for training programs, and other necessary institutional
strengthening.

Social Safeguards

50.      Specific policies and procedures applicable to land acquisition and compensation were also
collated in a standalone Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework (LARPF). The EMP and
the LARPF was publicly-disclosed at the Bank's InfoShop and at PLN's Head Office in Jakarta prior to
appraisal. The General PLN Policy addresses public participation, land acquisition, compensation and
rehabilitation of property, and general mitigation measures. This Policy was prior reviewed and approved
by the World Bank.

51.      Since OP/BP 4.01 and 4.12 were already triggered, the decision to go to parallel transmission
lines in 2005 did not result in any new triggers. However, the supervision team, realizing the need for
action, had had intensive communications with PLN, on resolving the safeguards issues and prepared the
instruments needed, by conducting workshops and several assessments. This resulted in the preparation of
a UKL UPL in 2007 that was finally completed in April 2008. This however, was after the contracts for
the construction of the transmission lines were already signed in March 2006.

52.      As also described in PLN's Environmental & Social Assessment and Management Plan (ESAMP),
PLN established a JBPSRS Project Environmental Team (PET), to work in association with the overall
JBPSRS Project Implementation Unit. The PET oversees and coordinates all aspects of the Project's EMP,
including any issues relating to land acquisition, compensation and resettlement. Implementation of land
acquisition, compensation and resettlement measures are carried out by the responsible PLN project
operations office or PLN Project Team. The PET also works closely with the
Community/Health/Environment/Systems/ Sustainability (CHESS) group in PLN's Central Office. A
general schematic of these responsibilities and relationships is presented in the excerpted Figure below:




6
  Only one component (the Perak-Ujung line of 5km in length) involved new transmission towers at the time, and these would be along an
existing right-of-way (ROW).




                                                                    14
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

53.      As mentioned above, five of the seven transmission lines are in various stages of completion due
to political economy and social issues pertaining to right of way. PLN will complete these lines within 12
months of the resolution of the outstanding issues, with their own funds. In the meanwhile all of the
materials for each of the components pertaining to these five lines have been procured and some of the
EPC contracts have lapsed. The Bank has been assured by PLN management as well as its own financial
management team, that there is an adequate asset register and asset management system within PLN to
ensure the integrity of this inventory until it is used.

54.     As confirmed during the exit meetings of the ICR mission in 2013, PLN management has
confirmed that they have budgeted adequate funds in 2014 and 2015 for the completion of the
transmission lines. PLN has also prepared and submitted to the Bank a time table certain in the form of a
Gantt chart indicating the completion schedule for the transmission lines. Although not required to do so,
PLN management and relevant staff have agreed to continue to submit the Quarterly Progress Reports to
the Bank indicating the progress on the completion of the transmission lines.

55.     The quarterly progress reports will also include details on the implementation of the UKL UPL i.e.
the safeguards program being implemented by PLN with respect to the transmission lines. The Bank
shall continue to monitor safeguards compliance through this reporting mechanism. The Bank will also
continue to monitor the completion of the transmission lines during the supervision of other ongoing
projects such as the IPTD I and II loans, and the Upper Cisokan Pumped Storage Hydropower project.
PLN has also included in its maintenance budget for transmission lines, adequate provisions for the
maintenance of the 150 kV lines under this project.

56.     With respect to the ERP system the World Bank had expressed its concern regarding the project
management and staffing of the ERP program and has been assured by PLN that these would be
addressed in 2014. The quarterly progress reports will also include a section on ERP implementation and
operations. This will allow the Bank’s team to monitor the staffing and the administration of the ERP
system within PLN.




                                                   15
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

57.      As discussed above, the original development objective of the Project was to improve the
performance of the power sector in Java-Bali by (a) supporting the State power company (PLN) to
implement its financial and corporate restructuring plan, and to strengthen key elements of the Java-Bali
electricity supply system; and (b) assisting the State gas company (PGN) to prepare the groundwork for
restructuring its gas transmission and distribution operations, given the importance of natural gas for
power generation.

58.     In view of the restructured project consequent to the repeal of the electricity law, which rendered
the unbundling of PLN illegal, the WBG Board approved the revised Project Development Objective (as
the project was formally restructured) which is to improve the reliability and efficiency of the power
system in Java-Bali and strengthen PLN and PGN's management capabilities.

59.      The indicators related to restructuring activities were removed to be consistent with the revised
project focus and development objective. The remaining outcome indicators of the project, which are
related to the improvement in the Java-Bali power network, remained unchanged since the project would
continue to implement and complete the important work on the physical components to strengthen the
power network. However, the outcome indicators for the ERP were expanded to account for the impact of
the full deployment of the ERP throughout the Java-Bali system and subsequently including Sumatra and
Sulawesi. This improved impact on operational efficiency was and is very relevant to PLN’s ability to
fund its needed capacity expansions not only though savings from improved efficiency but also due to
improvements in the timeliness of the availability of its financial statements for consideration by
providers of capital. This is reflected by the reduction in the amount of time it takes for PLN to
consolidate its financial statements for the Java-Bali operations which was reduced by 50% (from 90 days
to 45 days).

60.      The development objective and the indicators, continue to remain very relevant for the country
and its needs and priorities. The World Bank supported substations have allowed access to electricity to
increase in several communities by virtue of the cross-bus transformers connecting the 500 kV backbone
to the 150 kV transmission network which serves not only some sparsely populated and more rural areas
of Java but also one major population center Bandung. It also needs to be noted here, that while the
parallel transmission lines would help to build much needed redundancy in the transmission system, they
were only a small part of the project (15% of the investment). The major and crucial portion of the project,
were the substations and the transformers in particular (66% of the total project and 80% of the physical
project). These have very long lead times and if overloaded can bring down the whole system. It is the
substations that have kept the Java Bali system operational in the face of rising demand and have helped
to greatly reduce overloading, maintain voltage levels and ultimately avoid load shedding The efficiency,
voltage, load factors have all improved significantly as a result of the project, bringing the stated and
much needed benefit and relief to the population served.

61.     Specifically, the major purpose of the physical components of the project when it was prepared in
2003 was to strengthen the Java-Bali transmission system (both 500 kV and 150 kV) to (1) achieve
greater utilization of existing generation capacity in east Java; and (2) improve supply reliability of power
supply in West Java. These objectives remain valid. In fact, with power demand growing at over 8% per
annum and PLN attempting a substantial scale-up in generation capacity, it has become even more

                                                     16
important to alleviate shortfalls by improving the supply-demand balance through the strengthening of the
transmission system in the Java-Bali grid. The project is now enabling PLN to supply power from plants
in East Java to the rapidly growing demand centers in West Java, as initially envisaged. There is presently,
a heightened importance to these investments, since PLN is in the process of expanding power generation
in East Java by a further 2,500 MW as a part of the country’s accelerated power generation expansion
program (10,000 MW “Crash Program”).

62.      In 2008 an additional financing component of US$ 30 million was also added to expand the ERP
program across PLN operations in Sumatra and Sulawesi. This extension of the ERP system is fully
consistent with the World Bank’s latest Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) that focuses on "investing in
Indonesia's institutions". More specifically, it supports Core Engagement 2 – to support the development
of infrastructure by helping "strengthen the capacity and accountability of institutions" to deliver better
outcomes.

63.     The strengthening of the management capabilities of PLN and PGN, still remain very relevant.
The expanded ERP program has significantly increased PLN’s ability to manage and control its
operations and its finances. The TA provided to PGN has been useful in the context of the Bank’s
operation in the gas sector.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Project Development Objective (from Project Appraisal Document)

64.      The development objective of the Project is to improve the performance of the power sector in
Java-Bali by (a) supporting the State power company (PLN) to implement its financial and corporate
restructuring plan, and to strengthen key elements of the Java-Bali electricity supply system; and (b)
assisting the State gas company (PGN) to prepare the groundwork for restructuring its gas transmission
and distribution operations, given the importance of natural gas for power generation.

65.      Three of the outcomes indicators as stated in the PAD document, namely, (i) Increased dispatch
capability of generation units in East Java; (ii) Reduced substation loadings at key Java-Bali 500kV and
150kV substations; and (iii) Improved voltages at key 150kV substations in Southeastern Java, were kept
the same after the restructuring. They are measurable outcomes for which base lines and targets had been
provided and could be deemed to contribute to strengthening key elements of the Java-Bali electricity
supply system. Two of the other outcome indicators, “Establishment of PLN's independent generation,
distribution and transmission successor companies on Java-Bali” and “Natural Gas Pricing and PGNs
restructuring and partial privatization studies completed” are both outputs rather than outcomes 7 as
discussed elsewhere (para 15) in this report. The PGN output has been completed but the Restructuring of
PLN as mentioned before was rendered illegal by the annulment of the electricity Law and thus dropped –
so it cannot be counted.


7
  The outcome indicators for strengthening PLN and PGN, were originally flawed because they focused on the means of
strengthening the agencies rather than whether they were actually strengthened (and power sector performance improved as a
result). This was a shortcoming in the project preparation which was subsequently corrected during implementation and
supervision when the project was restructured.



                                                             17
Thus given that all the true outcome indicators have been met, and the outputs other than the Restructuring
were also met and one, PLN’s rate of return, was found not to be a relevant indicator given new
Government social policies which prevented tariffs from covering costs and provided subsidies to cover
the difference in tariffs and the cost of power supply. Therefore, as part of the restructuring this indicator
was subsequently dropped with the debt service coverage ratio being the remaining covenant to be tracked.
In any event, the ERP significantly improved the efficiency of PLN’s operations leading to an annual
operational cost saving of over US$ 9 million and exceeded the targets for the timeliness of the release of
financial statements.

Board Approved Revised Project Development Objective
The development objective of the Project is to improve the reliability and efficiency of the power system
in Java-Bali and strengthen PLN and PGN's management capabilities.

66.      The key performance indicators of the restructured project were kept the same: (i) Increased
dispatch capability of generation units in East Java; (ii) Reduced substation loadings at key Java-Bali
500kV and 150kV substations; and (iii) Improved voltages at key 150kV substations in Southeastern Java.
The restructuring indicators were removed. For the ERP system the outcome indicators were the impact of
the full deployment of the ERP throughout the Java-Bali system. This improved impact on operational
efficiency would be reflected in the reduction of the amount of time it takes for PLN to consolidate its
financial statements for the Java-Bali operations by 50% to 45 days, and also as mentioned above an
externality savings of over US$ 9 million p.a.

67.      The remaining outcome indicator was “Improvements in PLN’s rate of return.” In PLN’s situation
at the time (and currently), the key criterion for measuring its financial health is its cash liquidity. The
Government had decided, for social and other considerations, that PLN could not charge the full cost of
providing electricity to consumers through the retail tariff;8 therefore the Government was required by Law
to supplement tariff revenues through the Public Service Obligation (PSO) subsidy. Under the
circumstances, the usual financial measures applied by the World Bank to revenue producing entities – rate
of return or a self-financing ratio – could not apply.9 In this case the most significant measure of PLN’s
financial condition was and still is, its liquidity; therefore the Government, PLN, and the World Bank
agreed to the use of a debt service coverage ratio as a proxy for measuring liquidity.

68.     The substations have all been completed and the ERP system is up and running in all three of the
phases funded by the Bank. The reliability and efficiency of the power system has been substantially



8
  The Government was implementing quarterly tariff increases for several consecutive periods leading up to 2004, when it
decided for social and other considerations not to increase further the retail price of electricity, and, it had not done so until
recently (2010). The Government is now considering tariff increases over the next several years, and an estimated 10 percent
increase in average tariffs was introduced during the second half of 2010, with the increase being fully realized during 2011. A
further gradual tariff increase of 3 percent per quarter from January 2013 onwards until it reached 15 percent was implemented.

9
  In a circumstance where the tariff does not fully cover costs and yield a profit, a covenant that measures the adequacy of the
tariff by itself is not relevant. Moreover, PLN’s financial health is largely controlled by the adequacy and timing of the
Government’s PSO payments.



                                                                18
improved by the project. All transformers have been installed and energized. The implementation team
was flexible and worked with PLN to relocate transformers to alternative substations to accommodate
changing demand patterns and evolving network configurations. Substation loading and voltage levels
have been significantly improved with more stability in the system. The transmission lines completed so
far are allowing power to be evacuated from new generation facilities and the other lines when completed
will help to evacuate power from two power plant extensions when they are expected to be commissioned
from 2016 through 2018. The three phases of the ERP system now cover 84 percent of staff, and 94
percent of revenues, and generate cost savings of US$ 9.1 million p.a. The system has improved PLN’s
financial, human resources and materials management. More timely financial statement issue has led to
greater access to capital.


Outcome Targets

69.      The improvement of the reliability and efficiency of the power system can be measured directly by
the first three outcome indicators listed above, namely (i) dispatch capability of generation units in East
Java; (ii) substation loadings at key Java-Bali 500kV and 150kV substations; and (iii) voltages at key
150kV substations in Southeastern Java. The baseline in 2003 and the actuals as of December 31, 2013 the
closing date of the project is provided below.




                                                   19
                                                                             Target by Project
           Outcome Indicator                      Baseline - 2002                                         Actual as of 2013
                                                                               Closing Date
     Dispatch capability                        Around 2,000 MW of          Additional 2000 MW           2,322 MVA
     of generation units in East Java           dispatch capability in      of dispatch capability
                                                2002                        by project closing
                                                                            date.
     Substation loadings at key Java-           The majority of             The majority of
     Bali 500kV and 150kV                       substations have            substations have             68.5%10
     substations                                loadings at 80% of the      loadings at 50%-60%
                                                capacity or more in         of the capacity.
                                                2002

     Voltages at key 150kV substations          The majority of key         The majority of key          100%
     in Southeastern Java                       150kV substations           150kV substations
                                                voltages are operating      voltages are operating
                                                at 90% of capacity, or      at 100% of capacity or
                                                at 135kV in 2002            150 kV by project
                                                                            closing.
     PLN’s Rate of Return (%)                   2002 - 4.0%                 At least 2.5% in             Removed post
                                                                            2004, 4% in 2005, 5%         restructuring in 2008.
                                                                            in 2006 and 6% in
                                                                            2007. Removed post
                                                                            restructuring in 2008.

As the outcome targets have all been met in full, the project development objectives can be deemed to
have been met as well. If based on the above values alone, the rating for the achievements would have
been at a high level. However, as mentioned previously, only two of the seven transmission lines are
100% completed. The other five, while well advanced (four are between 74-87% completed, and one at
42%) will not be completed until after project closure. This is due to Right of Way issues pertaining to
community demands for compensation beyond what is permitted by law, and legal and regulatory
uncertainty concerning access through production and conservation forests. However, it is important to
recognize in this regard that the substations were the most critical physical investments for addressing
short - and medium-term system constraints. While upgrading the capacity of sub-transmission and
distribution lines is essential to longer term system performance and capacity, and are economically and
financially justifiable investments for the project, the existing capacities were in most cases sufficient to
meet medium-term demand growth and do not diminish the performance benefits of other investments in
the meantime. Thus, in spite of some of the transmission lines not having been completed (primarily due
to political economy reasons as explained above) the project development objectives and the related



10
   During the project implementation period, both the demand forecast and the generation supply have increased at a pace far
greater than originally projected. Originally, PLN’s demand growth was estimated to peak at 9% p.a., in 2009 and then stabilize
at 5% over the longer term. At present the long term peak demand trend forecast is of the order of 8%. At the same time
generation capacity is also increasing much faster under the 10,000 MW “Crash Program”. Under the circumstances, the
indicator can be deemed to have been met. Also it needs to be noted that the non completion of the transmission lines have no
impact on the transformer loadings at present, but they still remain highly relevant as they will be needed to evacuate the power
generated by the new power plants coming on stream in 2018 as explained in Box 1.



                                                               20
outcome indicators have been met with only moderate shortcomings. However, the transmission lines still
remain very relevant, as they would be the only means of evacuation for some of the new power plants
coming on stream. This issue is explained in the Box below11.




11
     The analyses in the Box 1, is based entirely on data provided by the operations department of PLN at the request of the Bank, and the
conclusions have been shared with PLN. (NB: In October 2012, Bandung Selatan-Kamojang become Bandung Selatan -W. Windu and W.
Windu – Kamojang)




                                                                        21
22
70.    Legal and regulatory reform has and is being instituted this year to address the right of way issues
and PLN has agreed to provide a time table certain by when the five lines will be built and energized.

71.    The additional TA has led to a new hydro pumped storage project, i.e. the Upper Cisokan
Pumped Storage Hydropower Project (PSHP), funded by the Bank. The PSP study/design and the related
PSHP, will help to improve the performance of the system by helping to increase peak power capacity
when finished. The TA will also help to strengthen PLN’s institutional capacity to plan, prepare, and
implement the PSHP and power investments generally. In summary the essential objectives and key
outcome indicators have been achieved, in spite of a small part of the output being delayed.


Institutional Objectives

72.      The sector related CAS goals at the time of project entry into the portfolio were: Sustain
economic recovery and promote broad-based growth by: i) addressing infrastructure bottlenecks; (ii)
restructuring sector entities; (iii) mobilizing co-financing for infrastructure needs, emphasizing equity
investments; and (iv) phasing out price subsidies and distortions.

73.     Implementation of the GOI’s 1998 Power Sector Restructuring Policy has been supported by
ADB, USAID, and the Bank. ADB (with co-financing from JBIC of US$400 million) provided the GO1
with a program loan of US$380 million, and a technical assistance loan of US$20 million to the
Directorate General of Electricity and Energy Utilization (DGEEU) in order to deal with the sectoral
aspects of restructuring-particularly the initial drafting of the new Electricity Law and associated
regulations, as well as the market rules governing the creation of a competitive electricity market. While
with the annulment of the Electricity Law, some of this co-financing had become irrelevant, including
parts of the US$ 20 million TA, the bulk of the co-financing was for physical infrastructure, e.g., the
500kV backbone financed primarily by JBIC, and has remained extremely relevant and critical for
addressing infrastructure bottlenecks and by increasing the efficiency of the system, reducing the need for
price subsidies. The Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources has continued to encourage and support
private participation in electricity generation and several new IPPs are under construction and preparation.

74.      In 2008 an additional financing component of US$ 30 million was also added to expand the ERP
program across PLN operations in other locations. This extension of the ERP system is fully consistent
with the World Bank’s latest Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) that focuses on "investing in Indonesia's
institutions". More specifically, it supports Core Engagement 2 – to support the development of
infrastructure by helping "strengthen the capacity and accountability of institutions" to deliver better
outcomes.

75.     The more recently promulgated institutional objectives of poverty reduction and shared prosperity
have also been supported by the project, by increasing the supply of electricity to rural areas through
increased dispatch of generated power on the medium voltage grid. Although an estimate of “inferred
access” has not yet been done for Java Bali, the increased access is likely to be significant given the
increased dispatch. Without the project, PLN has no option but to engage in a program of aggressive load
shedding and would have to severely curtail the numbers of new consumer connections. This would
disproportionately impact the rural poor, since the substations would serve areas where there is substantial
suppressed demand due to long waiting lists for consumer connection.



                                                    23
3.3 Efficiency

76.      The project was shown to be very efficient at entry, based on the economic analysis during
project preparation. The combined costs and benefits of both the 500kV and 150kV power system
strengthening components resulted in an overall NPV of US$34.3 million, with a corresponding overall
EIRR of 14.6%. The delays in project implementation have resulted in a reduction in the project NPV and
EIRR from US$ 34.4 million and 14.6% to US$9.2 million and 11.88%. However as will be seen from
Table 1 of the original analysis, the NPV and the EIRR calculated at project entry assumed an East-West
transfer gain of US$ 27.3 million in avoided costs in the years 2005 and 2006, after which the 500kV
backbone to the south would be commissioned and the East-West transfer gain would cease. This was
entirely unrealistic as it assumed that the entire physical project would be procured, launched, constructed,
installed, tested and energized in 18 months between June 26, 2003 when the project was approved and
December 31, 2004. However, the project became effective only on July 7, 2004. Without the East West
benefit, the NPV would have been US$-4.7million and the EIRR 9.51%. Compared to this the economic
and financial performance has actually been better.

77.       However, the cost effectiveness of the project during implementation was significantly increased
with PLN and the task team working together to ensure strict adherence to the World Bank procurement
guidelines. This resulted in significant cost savings both in the physical components of the project as well
as in the ERP component. In the physical component, while the original design was based on an uprating,
the project was modified to run an additional transmission line parallel to the existing one instead.
Assiduous design of the RFP and a highly competitive bidding process, has allowed the vast majority of
the transmission lines, and materials procurement for the unfinished portions of the transmission lines, to
be completed at a cost lower than originally estimated for the uprating only.

78.     Similarly, in the case of the ERP, the bidding process and the implementation of the project were
managed in a way to result in cost savings in the order of US$ 9 million, with all deliverables being
achieved. During the project implementation period, both the demand forecast and the generation supply
have increased at a pace far greater than originally projected. Originally, a project net present value of
US$34 million and an EIRR of 14.6% was projected based on peak demand growth peaking at 9% p.a., in
2009 and then stabilizing at 5% over the longer term. At present the long term peak demand trend forecast
is of the order of 8%. At the same time generation capacity is also increasing much faster under the
10,000 MW “Crash Program”.

79.     In the original analysis the costs were the costs of the physical components, while the benefits
considered were only the value of the possible incremental demand growth with and without the project,
and the avoided cost of generation achieved by relieving the 400MW east-west transfer constraint. To be
conservative, the analysis did not include several other benefits, such as (i) reduced system losses; (ii)
improved voltages; (iii) extended transformer lifetimes; and (iv) fewer localized planned and unplanned
system outages. Furthermore, the approach taken also did not account for the benefit value of unserved
energy (on a consumer willingness-to-pay basis), which would likely be considerably higher than the
difference in LRMC values used in the analysis. Also, while the costs of the transmission lines uprating
was included, no financial benefits associated with it were included since, unlike the substations, the
existing capacities of sub-transmission and distribution lines were in most cases sufficient to meet the
expected medium-term demand growth and would only become critical when the new power plants in the
regions near Bandung would come on stream.

80.    Within this analytical framework, the delays in the project would have eliminated the avoided
cost savings of reducing the East West constraint as the 500kV line would have been already
                                                    24
commissioned. Against this the cost savings of the project as well as the fact that since Indonesia imports
oil, and high speed diesel and marine fuel oil in particular, while coal and gas are domestic production,
the difference in LRMC between the bus at generation plants and that at the lower voltage bus (500-150
kV), would have increased if not decreased. The ERP project is yielding over US$9 million in annual
savings which were not previously anticipated. At a project cost of US$ 41 million this yields an NPV of
US$8.1 million and an IRR of 14.95 %.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

81.     While the achievements of the development objectives as restructured remain highly relevant and
based on all the outcome indicators having been achieved and achieved with efficiency, as shown in
Annex 3, the rating for the outcome if there were no shortcomings, would have been highly satisfactory in
accordance with the harmonized evaluation criteria. However, there were some shortcomings. This
evaluation needs to determine if these shortcomings can be considered minor, moderate, significant,
major or severe in order to assign an overall outcome rating to the project. There were mainly two key
shortcomings in the operation:

      I.      Five of the seven 150kV transmission lines had not been completed (four are between 74-
              87% completed, and one at 42%) as of the closing date of the project. The impact of this
              shortcoming on the achievement of the operation’s objectives, needs to be evaluated in light
              of the following considerations:

                   i. The transmission lines were a small (14%) portion of the overall project as well as of
                      the physical project, as explained in para 36.

                  ii. As explained in para 69 and in Box 1, the primary role of the transmission lines were
                      to initially to build (n-1) redundancy in the system and due to this reason, the delays
                      in completion of the transmission lines have had almost no effect on the
                      achievements of the development outcomes.

                 iii. The transmission lines remain highly relevant however, since (as also explained in
                      Box 1) they will be critical for evacuating the power from two new power plants
                      which are expected to come on stream in the 2016-2019 time frame.

                  iv. The delays in the completion of the transmission lines are due to political economy
                      issues which are beyond the control of the Bank and PLN.


           In view of the above, it can be reasonably concluded that the effect of the delays in the
           completion of the transmission lines on the achievement of the project objectives have been
           minor.

     II.      The second shortcoming was that the project had to be extended three times for a total of 5
              years. It is important to review carefully the cause and the effect of this shortcoming in order
              to determine its effect on the achievement of the operation’s objectives:

                   i. As discussed in paragraph 76, the initial design of the project with respect to the
                      timing of the completion of the physical project, was entirely unrealistic as it
                                                      25
                           assumed that the entire physical project would be procured, launched, constructed,
                           installed, tested and energized in 18 months between 6/26/2003 when the project was
                           approved and 12/31/2004. In the event, the project became effective only in 7/7/2004
                           as it took the borrower that long just to meet the conditions of effectiveness.

                      ii. Other than the transmission lines, the rest of the physical project, i.e., the substation
                          work, was completed by December 2010, within the time frame of the restructured
                          project development objectives and well within the timeframe required under the
                          demand forecast and the timing of the other infrastructure buildup e.g. the 500 kV
                          backbone to the south, to prevent overloading of the substations and to maintain the
                          remaining outcome indicators within target limits between 2008 and 201012, based on
                          a review of the QPRs.

                     iii. The second year of the second extension and the third extensions accounting for 3
                          out of the 5 years extended are related to only the transmission lines and have had no
                          impact on the achievement of the objectives of the operation as indicated in para 69.

                     iv. All the other components, ERP pilot and the TA were completed prior to December
                         2008 i.e., the original closing date.


                 In view of the above it can reasonably be stated that the impact of the extensions on the
                 achievement of the operation’s objectives had been moderate, and impact on the restructured
                 objectives in particular, have been minor.


82.      Given that there were two shortcomings of a minor nature, in aggregate the shortcomings would
have been considered moderate. However, since the two shortcomings are in most part interrelated and
both were caused primarily by the delay in the completion of the transmission lines due to reasons of
political economy which were not foreseeable at project appraisal, and since the project outcomes have all
been achieved, overall the shortcomings can reasonably be considered minor. Thus in summary, the
project has been critical to improving power system reliability in the country. Without it, more densely
populated parts of the country would be suffering severe load shedding by now. The transmission lines
and the related ROW delays, in this context, were a small component of the project and when viewed in
the totality of the achievements of the PDOs, the project as a whole has been the bedrock of the power
system and transformational of our engagement with the Government on the energy sector for a number
of years. As a result a rating downgrade to a satisfactory from a shortcoming free, highly satisfactory,
can reasonably be justified.

However, under the harmonized evaluation criteria for ICRs, the rating for the project development
objective and its achievement in terms of outcome indicators prior to the restructuring needs also to be
factored into the rating. This is based on the principle that for projects whose project objectives (as
encompassed by the stated PDOs and key associated outcome targets) have been formally revised –
through approval by the Bank authority that approved the original loans/credits/grants, (in this case the


12
     During the period past the closing of the un-restructured operation.



                                                                  26
Board) – project outcome is to be assessed against both the original and revised project objectives to
arrive at an overall outcome rating. Following this principle, separate outcome ratings (against original
and revised project objectives) need to be weighted in proportion to the share of actual loan/credit
disbursements made in the periods before and after approval of the revision.



83.          This analysis and the result is presented below:

                                 Against          Against         Overall        Comments
                                 Original         Revised
                                 PDOs             PDOs
         1     Rating            Moderately       Satisfactory                   Significant
                                 Satisfactory13                                  Improvement
         2     Rating Value      4                5
         3     Weighted          26%              74%             100%
               (disbursement
               before/after
               PDO change)
         4     Weighted          1.04             3.7             4.74
               Value (2x3)
         5     Final Rating                                       Moderately
               ( Rounded)                                         Satisfactory

Thus the overall outcome rating for the operation is Moderately Satisfactory

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

84.     The more recently promulgated institutional objectives of poverty reduction and shared prosperity
have also been supported by the project, by increasing the supply of electricity to rural areas through
increased dispatch of generated power on the medium voltage grid. Although an estimate of “inferred
access” has not yet been done for Java Bali, the increased access is likely to be significant given the
increased dispatch. Without the project, PLN has no option but to engage in a program of aggressive load
shedding and would have to severely curtail the numbers of new consumer connections. This would
disproportionately impact the rural poor, since the substations would serve areas where there is substantial
suppressed demand due to long waiting lists for consumer connection.




13
     Based on ISR ratings for this period.



                                                             27
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

85.      However, in spite of the prevailing difficulties of securing right of way for the transmission lines,
the September 2011 mission had noted that there is some indication of a resolution of the present strict
restrictions on allowing construction work in conservation forest areas by a Government regulation
28/2011 issued on May 19, 2011 under the Forestry Act No. 41/1999. This regulation allows for the
approval of development projects in the national interest which have to traverse conservation forests. The
regulation provides an opportunity for PLN to request ‘in principle approval’ of an entire transmission
line route after considering the various alternative possibilities. Going forward, if PLN is successful in
resolving procedural issues with Perhutani and BKSDA it will substantially ease the burden of increased
costs due to unforeseen delays on future transmission projects.

86.     PLN also informed the mission of the passage of a Ministerial Regulation (Permen ESDM) No.
38/2013 that offers compensation to private landowners under the ROW of the transmission lines at 15
percent of market value, against an assessment of land value by an independent assessor. According to
PLN, this would in effect offer a seven fold increase in compensation to private landowners when
compared with the current formula that offers 10 percent of NJOP value (land assessment for property
taxes). In addition, PLN stated that a Task Force coordinated by UKP-4 (President’s Delivery Unit) with
representation from eight ministries including the Ministry of Forestry has been formed to resolve all
outstanding land acquisition issues for infrastructure projects. According to PLN, under the new Law (No.
2/2012) on Land Acquisition for the Development of Public Interest, in the event of a compensation
dispute including for ROW, PLN will have the right to proceed with construction following it having
deposited the compensation amount at the District Court which will be responsible for dispute resolution.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

87.      The main unintended outcome is that the power plant extensions at Wayang Windu and
Kamojang have both been delayed and as a result the delay in completion of the 150 kV transmission
lines have not adversely affected the transmission line loading beyond (n-1) or been an issue with regards
to evacuating power from these two new power plant extensions. As a consequence the project has been
able to meet all its performance indicators on an ongoing basis, and by the time these two power plant
extensions are completed, it is highly likely that the transmission lines will also have been completed, as a
result the project will continue to meet its performance indicators.

88.     The more positive development not anticipated in the PAD or in the economic and financial
analysis, is that the ERP component has started to yield savings to PLN of US$9.1 million per annum
from improved efficiencies and other savings.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

89.     The stakeholder workshops ( “Socialization Workshops”) held primarily with communities
affected by the new parallel transmission lines, have yielded both positive and negative feedback and
reactions. The positive has been mostly with regards to compensation they received unexpectedly. The
negative was due to dissatisfaction with the level of compensation. Some of the demands for additional




                                                     28
compensation have been in excess of what is permitted by law. There were also anecdotal reports of
involvement of civil society and other interests in the demands and the claims being made.14.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

90.     While the development outcomes of the project in terms of network capacity balance and
loadings, stability of the network15 and voltage regulation have been met with only minor shortcomings,
the main risk to the development outcome, going forward, is that PLN will not be able to keep up its
investment program in network development and maintain grid integrity in the face of increasing
generation capacity, which is in large part being driven by private sector IPP investments. The project
has been instrumental in significantly mitigating this primary risk to the development outcome, through
its ERP component which has allowed timely and reliable disclosure and publishing PLN’s audited
Financial Statements as well as significantly improving internal financial controls. This has significantly
increased PLN’s ability to access the bank and capital markets to fund its network development program.

91.     There is also the risk that PLN might not in the event complete the transmission lines as per the
timetable to which they have committed. However, as mentioned in paragraphs 48 and 49 above, PLN
will continue to issue quarterly progress reports even after the project has closed and until such time as
the lines have been completed. This agreement demonstrates PLN’s commitment to complete the
transmission lines as soon as possible and significantly mitigates this risk.

92.    A related though secondary risk is that PLN will not keep up its supervision and maintenance of
the ERP system. This risk is mitigated by the understanding reached with PLN management and the task
team that project management for the ERP system will be strengthened and additional training will be
provided through a train the trainers program which is currently being funded by PLN.

93.      Furthermore , the present project is being followed on by subsequent Bank operations such as the
Power Transmission Development Project and the Second Power Transmission Development
Project, to further strengthen the transmission and sub-transmission network by expanding and adding
new substations in the network; the Connectivity Development Policy Loans which support, inter alia,
improved regulatory framework for land acquisition for public purpose development; and Financial
Sector and Investment Climate Reform and Modernization DPL, which supports, inter alia, reinforcing
financial system stability and ongoing financial sector reforms. These engagements will significantly
strengthen PLN’s capacity to manage the grid better. For this reason, the risk to Development Outcome is
rated as Moderate.




14
   This anecdotal information was received during meetings with the PIU in Bandung to discuss the UKP/UKL and the
socialization process that was conducted to announce the ROW compensation that can be offered under the Law. The actual
sample reports are attached but as they are in Bahasa, a short English summary is also provided in Annex 6.

15
   The terms Network and Grid have been used interchangeably in this report to allow easier visualization of the power grid
issues by the non-technical reader.



                                                               29
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

94.     The discussion in section 2.1 needs to be considered in light of the overall preparation of the
project. The PAD document is extremely thorough and covers all the requirements of the Bank’s
preparation guidelines and was fully consistent with Operational Policy/Bank Procedure (OP/BP) 10.00,
Investment Project Financing. The preparation took into account the need to helping build the Bank’s
added value, by making good use of available information, and trying to find an adequate balance
between risks and results. The implementation plan sought to support and help the client achieve specific
development objectives while fostering borrower ownership and project sustainability.

95.     The strategic sector context and the project rationale were sound. The Economic, Financial and
Technical analyses were thorough and rigorous. Institutional issues were carefully considered and
Environmental, Social and Safeguards Policies were adequately treated given project risk and other
assumptions. All the required annexes were covered in considerable detail and were exhaustive and
contained rigorous appraisal work and client and other stakeholder consultations. Under normal
circumstances this preparation would merit a rating of highly satisfactory.

96.      Therefore the discussion in section 2.1 needs to be considered in light of the superior capability
and performance of the team reflected in the above two paragraphs. Section 2.1 alone would dictate that
the performance be rated unsatisfactory. But, just as the political economy needs to be taken into account
in the design and preparation of a project, it needs to be also taken into account in the evaluation of the
project. It is not clear as to whether the shortcomings highlighted in section 2.1 were attributable to issues
of attention and competence or if they were created as a consequence of the extremely tenuous and
unstable conditions of the time and the need to have the project approved in that fiscal year. The answer is
probably somewhere in the middle. Thus a rating of moderately satisfactory would be appropriate.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

97.     Project supervision has been effective and diligent throughout the implementation period, with
the task team working closely and responsively with the client at every step and issue. In addition to
ensuring fiduciary and financial management integrity, the team also has:

       quickly identified problems as they have arisen and worked closely with the borrower to help find
        ways to resolve them;

       recommended and worked with the borrower to explore and implement changes in project
        concept or design, as appropriate, as the project evolved or circumstances changed;



                                                     30
       identified the key expected and emerging risks to project sustainability and recommended
        appropriate risk management strategies and actions to the borrower; and

       diligently prepared the Bank's ISRs every year to account for the use of Bank resources, and to
        draw lessons to improve the design of future projects, sector and country strategies, and policies -
        so far 18 ISRs have been completed for the project over the last 10 years, with the latest one
        having been completed on October 22, 2013, just prior to project closing on December 31, 2013.

98.     As mentioned before, attentive management and supervision of project implementation and the
procurement and financial management issues in particular have resulted in substantial project cost
savings, most notably in the costs of installing the parallel transmission lines and the completion of all
deliveries under the ERP component (including the additional financing) resulting in saving of around
US$9 million.

99.     In view of this superior project performance, the supervision rating should have been at a high
level. However, against this superior performance, the delays caused by the political economy issues in
the country, and contracting delays on part of the borrower due to the PIU being located in the operations
department instead of the construction department – a decision that was made during an unsettled period
at PLN and was therefore slow in being corrected – would require a closer look at the Bank’s supervision
performance.

       In this respect, the political economy issues, the absence of law for accessing conservation forests
        and other obstacles due to transition within PLN, this needs to be balanced against the fact that
        many of these issues were was outside the Team’s control but the Team nevertheless responded
        to these challenges in the political economy to restructure and extend the project in 2008 and then
        again in 2009 and 2011.

       During this period the Team also brought these delays in transmission line construction to the
        attention of the President’s Delivery Unit (UKP-4) that is responsible for relieving infrastructure
        bottlenecks and to PLN’s senior management.

       For land acquisition from private landowners, the Team was advised by UKP-4 to await the
        issuance of ESDM No. 38/2013under Law 2/2012 on land acquisition which was only ratified in
        late 2013. PLN is now working on a revised land acquisition plan that would enable it to provide
        market-based compensation under Permen (Ministerial Decree) ESDM No. 38/2013.

       For acquisition of forestry land, PLN’s senior management advised the Team in early 2011 of
        ongoing discussions between PLN’s President Director and Minister Forestry leading to a signing
        of an MOU between the two entities, thereby providing an opportunity for PLN to re-engage with
        the Ministry on ROW issues. A new Government regulation 28/2011 on forest land use permits
        was issued on May 19, 2011 under the Forestry Act No. 41/1999, and which replaced Permen No.
        43/2008. Since then, PLN has been following the guidelines under a 27 step clearance process to
        acquire this land. They have recently received the recommendation from the Governor of West
        Java for the Ministry of Forestry clearance to be issued. For conservation land, PLN has
        submitted the required documentation to the Ministry of Forestry and is awaiting clearance to
        start construction.



                                                    31
       With respect to some of the delays caused by PLN’s unfamiliarity with Bank procedures, the
        Bank team has provided several trainings over the duration of the project, in addition to
        procurement training provided in early stages of project preparation. The Bank team also
        provided enhanced implementation support at each stage of the procurement process for the
        ongoing projects.


100.    The Bank has been diligent in monitoring all these activities and has provided guidance, but not
intervention, where appropriate. This approach by the Bank was entirely consistent with the Bank’s
capacity development objectives to help country systems mature to be able to address these types of
safeguard issues more expeditiously on their own. In view of these considerations we rated the Bank’s
supervision of the project as Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

101.     The rating for Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry for this project is rated moderately
satisfactory, since the quality of supervision is rated satisfactory and the outcome rating for the project is
in the satisfactory range, namely moderately satisfactory, the overall Bank performance may be rated as
moderately satisfactory. Even if the rating for quality at entry were to be rated as moderately
unsatisfactory, based on the ICR evaluation criteria harmonized over OPCS, IEG and ROC, the overall
Bank’s performance would still be rated moderately satisfactory since the outcome rating is in the
satisfactory range.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

102.     While the Government has been cooperative and supportive of the project throughout its
implementation, and has allocated adequate counterpart funds for the project, it has been reluctant to exert
and enforce its authority, both administrative and legal, on some of the issues where it was within its
powers. As mentioned before the two key issues delaying the completion of the transmission lines were
the inordinately high, compensation claims that are in excess of those permitted under the prior law
(10 % of NJOP value) by the landowners and the lack of permits being issued for traversing conservation
forests. In theory, both of these issues would be under the control of the Government. However, given
the political economy in the country and the fact that elections are to be held shortly, the Government’s
reluctance to revert to the top down approaches of the past, is understandable. For this reason, the
Government's performance in the context of this operation needs to be rated Moderately Satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

103.     The implementation agency, PLN, has also been very cooperative, responsive and responsible
throughout the implementation process. In spite of all the decentralization and reorganizations taking
place within PLN during the implementation, both staff and management have worked closely and
diligently with the Bank supervision team, to try to ensure that project implementation was completed in

                                                     32
time, within cost, and efficiently. However, due to lack of continuity brought about by staff transfers and
rotations, there was some continued unfamiliarity with Bank procurement systems. These were reflected
in initial weaknesses in the ICB procedures.

104.    There were also some delays in procurement as was highlighted in more than one ISR.
Unfamiliarity with Bank procedures resulted in some instances of noncompliance with Bank procedures
such as failure to publish a Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) in United Nations Development Business
(UNDB); or failing to seek the Bank’s No Objection on a contract amendment involving an increase of
contract price by more than 15%. Both of these were required under the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
The Bank team has since provided three trainings in addition to procurement training provided in each
stage of project preparation and implementation. The Bank team also provided enhanced implementation
support at each stage of the procurement process for the ongoing projects.

105.     The PIU and the PMU has generally performed well in conducting the contracting processes,
resulting in significant cost savings, both in the physical components of the project as well as in the ERP
component. However, as mentioned in prior sections, the initial implementation design had located the
PIU in the operations group instead of the construction group where they rightly belonged. This decision
was partly due to the fundamental changes taking place in PLN and the country at the time of project
preparation and approval. While this did not affect all the contracts, in some cases there were delays of up
to two years due to weaknesses in contract management. The issue was recognized only when the delay
persisted and was then addressed.

106.    Finally there were also several payment delays in processing contractor invoices. However, as
mentioned before, there have been incidents of incarceration of PLN staff, for circumventing rules and
regulations to get things done expeditiously. These types of incidents have led staff to now work strictly
to rule and following all regulations to the last detail (This sort of action is sometimes referred to as
“work to rule”). While, PLN staff cannot be faulted for this, the performance of the implementation
agency PLN would have to be evaluated with these practices in mind.


107.    In discussions with the Bank, PLN has since indicated an awareness of the need to carry out
diagnostics to identify the areas of weaknesses/ bottlenecks in procurement and contract management
process including the issue of handling disputes, price adjustment, etc. for appropriate corrective action
for future projects. In view of these considerations, its increasing familiarity with the World Bank
processes, and in view of its otherwise superior performance overall 16 , PLN’s performance as an
implementing agency should be rated at least as Moderately Satisfactory.



16
   In fairness to PLN, it also needs to be noted that a number of these issues arose due to delays in obtaining ROW
clearances, i.e. extensions of time, price escalations beyond 15 percent, etc. In this case, PLN was of the opinion that
since they were paying for the cost escalation through their own budget, they did not need the Bank's no objection –
revealing their lack of familiarity with Bank processes. In addition, the Bank obtained two clearances by OPRC
(Director level) for the Additional Financing Loan for the Extended Deployment of the ERP system for PLN's
failure to advertise in UNDB by proving that competition wasn't undermined and that re-tendering would cost PLN
about the same as the contract value due to foregone revenues, and the circa 30 staff who had already been hired and
would have to await the results of the re-bidding.



                                                          33
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

108.    Combining the Borrower and Implementing agency ratings as per the Harmonized ICR rating
guidelines, the overall borrower performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned
109.    The key lesson to take away from this project is the need to better understand and assess the
tradeoffs between the political economy and country engagement issues and the need for the Bank to
preserve its best practices and ensure quality at entry in project design. The lesson here is that a balance
needs to be found between these competing interests and there must be the willingness to make the hard
decisions that may sometimes be required. As discussed in some detail above, at the time of project
approval, the Bank’s lending to the country had almost come to a stop and it was extremely important, if
not crucial, for the Bank to resume its lending program and this project was reportedly (and also
confirmed by local staff during the ICR review meeting) the only one at the time that could have been
approved within the fiscal year in question. Faced with this imperative, the task team most likely had to
make some compromises in project design in order to be able to go for approval. The highly qualified
and competent task team, would most certainly have been aware of the network loading issues. The
likelihood of the project team (the institutional memory on this is rather limited) having assumed the
uprating option would also explain the fact that the parallel lines could be procured and completed within
the same budget as the uprating (not counting over-runs due to delays). It is also likely, as mentioned
above, that the uprating decision was most probably also taken in order to avoid delays of several months
that would otherwise have been caused should parallel lines be adopted. These issues needed to have
been discussed and incorporated in the project documents prior to presentation to the Board.


110.    The second lesson from this project has to do with transmission projects themselves. The delays
with the transmission lines in this project are not unique. It is known to be happening with several other
transmission projects in the country where very similar issues have caused or are causing delays in project
implementation. It is therefore important to include in the project design, provisions for these safeguard
issues and allow time either during project preparation or during implementation to address fully the
safeguard issues that need to be addressed in order to increase the certainty of the timeframe of the project.

111.     The third lesson here has also to do with a tradeoff of sorts. With respect to right of way issues,
the question arises as to whether or not and under what circumstances should the Bank intervene at higher
levels in the country to address such right of way issues. There is always the tension between the need to
intervene in order to expedite the project vs. the need to provide guidance without intervention, in order to
allow country systems to evolve and develop so that they are better able to more expeditiously address
these issues in the longer term. Here too lies the question of striking the right balance. In the present case,
the Bank’s approach of monitoring and providing guidance without intervention, most likely served the
best interests of the country by allowing country systems to evolve to the point where now appropriate
laws and regulations have been enacted and these will help to reduce the time it will take to complete
future transmission projects.




                                                     34
112.    Another lesson, albeit somewhat unexpected, to be taken away from this project, is the
resounding success and a significant cost savings resulting from the deployment of the ERP system in
PLN. It is important for sector practitioners to look more closely at ERP deployment and also at what
was done here specifically, to explore opportunities for applicability in other utilities in other countries
and regions. This lesson is also relevant and topical in the context of the present reorganization and
increased sector wide approach being introduced within the Bank.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

113.    In the area of resolving obstacles at the Government level, both the Borrower and the
implementing agency have remarked that greater intervention by the Bank at the country partnership level,
might have led to earlier resolution of some of the issues which are under the control of Government.
However, the Bank was asked by PLN itself, not to intervene as it was felt that the nascent discussions
with the Minister Forestry, and the subsequent signing of the MOU between PLN and the Ministry of
Forestry would be sufficient to enable PLN to re-engage with the Ministry to resolve all outstanding
ROW issues.

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

N/A




                                                    35
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                                                      Borrower       Total
                                                          IBRD
                                         Appraisal                   Actual/Latest Actual/Lat
                                                       Actual/Latest
                                         Estimate                      Estimate        est    Percentage
                                                         Estimate
            Components                    (PAD)                         (ICR)       Estimate      of
                                                          (ICR)
                                           (USD                         (USD         (ICR)    Appraisal
                                                          (USD
                                         millions)                     millions)     (USD
                                                         millions)
                                                                                    millions)
PART A
1. 500 kV Transmission Network             69.78          55.35           27.04         82.39       118
2. 150 kV Transmission Network             90.39           45.95          22.09         68.04        75
3. Enterprise Resource Planning System     26.00           43.88           8.41         52.29       201
4. PLN Technical Assistance                4.50            1.75              -           1.75       39
PART B
5. PGN Technical Assistance                6.00            2.43              -           2.43        40
 Total Project Costs                      196.67          149.36          57.54         206.89      105
Interest during Construction               13.56             -             28.5          28.5       210
Front-end fee                              1.41            1.41              -           1.41       100
Commitment Charge                            -               -             4.60          4.60         -
Local bank fee                               -               -             0.91          0.91         -
Total Financing                           211.64          150.77          91.55         242.31      114

    Amount cancelled from the parent loan, US$ 3.57 million.
    In addition, US$ 18.7 million of the additional financing loan of US$ 20.9 million, or about 89.7
    percent had been disbursed. US$ 9.1 million was canceled.


(b) Financing
                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                                        Percentage of
            Source of Funds                 Estimate       Estimate
                                                                         Appraisal
                                          (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                     70.64          91.55          130
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                              141.00             150.77           107
and Development
Total Financing                               211.64             242.31           114




                                                     36
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Physical Components of the Project ( Components 1 &2)

1. The Bank ICR mission visited the Unit Pelaksana Konstruksi UPK JJB V Office in Bandung, and met
    with the UIP V, West Java Project Office in Gandul that is responsible for managing the project.
    Based on information provided by PLN, and through discussions with PLN management, the current
    status of the construction works and related issues are provided hereunder.

2. Substation Improvements: All substation works under the project (package nos. 1, 2A, 2B, 4, and 5)
    are complete and the contracts have been closed. The key activities carried out during the last 12
    months and remaining activities needed for the full realization of the project objectives are as follows:

For the 500/150 kV substations (Packages 1 and 4) the main exception is:

        a. the South Surabaya substation (Package 4) where the 500/150 kV interbus transformer procured
           has been used at Ngimbang and PLN has to procure a replacement. However, the energizing of
           this substation is held up pending the completion of the Grati-South Surabaya line being funded
           through export credit from France (see Transformer Relocations section below).

For the 150 kV substations (Packages 2A, 2B and 5), the status is as follows:

   i.      Under package 2A, all work at the 11 substations has been completed and the contract has been
           closed. All transformers under the contract have been energized.

  ii.      Under package 2B, all work on the contract has been completed and the contract was closed in
           December 2011.

 iii.      All substation work under package 5 has been successfully completed and the additional
           equipment of the 17 substations has been energized. All work under the contract has been
           completed and the contract has been closed.

3. Transformer relocations: Given the need to maintain continuity of supply, and the need to address
    system exigencies (transformer failures) encountered by PLN at some locations, the Bank agreed to
    the relocation and emergency installation of a number of interbus transformers (500/150 kV) secured
    under the project at their needed locations. However, the Bank also stressed the need for PLN to
    secure replacement transformers to ensure that the project objectives at the selected locations are
    fulfilled. As a result, transformer replacements at Balaraja, Mandirancan, and Ngimbang have been
    completed and the transformers have been energized. The current situation with respect to the
    remaining 500 kV transformer for South Surabaya is as follows:

South Surabaya substation: The transformer procured for this substation has been used at Ngimbang
substation due to the transformer procured for Ngimbang being installed at Mandirancan. However, the
interbus transformer at South Surabaya can only be used when the transmission line from Grati is
constructed. This line funded by export credit from France has been delayed for many years due to the
delay in the settlement of a contractual claim for enhanced price adjustment. PLN informed the Bank that
it would use its own budget to fund the Grati–South Surabaya line. PLN had tendered for the supply of
one additional transformer for the South Surabaya substation in December 2011. Additionally switchgear
                                                     37
meant for South Surabaya has also been used elsewhere and replacement equipment has been ordered. A
new contract is being negotiated.

4. Transmission lines (Packages 3A, 3B, and 6): The following are the transmission lines under
        Packages 3A, 3B, and 6 along with their completion status:

Table 2: Transmission line packages and completion status
          Package                                  Completion Status %
                                                   as of December 31,
                                                   2013
          3A
    i     150kV Bandung Selatan – Kamojang         87.7
    ii 150kV Wayang Windu Incomer                  100
    iii 150kV Kamojang Drajat                      83.5
    iv 150kV Tasikmalaya Ciamis                    85.1
          3B
    v     150kV Drajat Garut                       41.6
    vi 150kV Garut Tasikmalaya                     74.0
          6
    vii 150kV Perak Ujung                          100

5. From the seven transmission lines that were awaiting completion as of the last extension of the Loan
        Closing Date at end-December 2011, the construction of the Wayang Windu Incomer (one of four
        lines under Package 3A) is now complete with stringing having been finished, and the line having
        been energized on July 2, 2012. In addition, package 6 (Perak-Ujung), has been completed.

6. The five remaining project transmission lines are still under construction. These include three lines
        under package 3A and two lines under package 3B. Construction work in all five lines is held up due
        to delays in securing the right of way from Perhutani, or from private landowners, or due to being
        unable to secure clearances from BKSDA for traversing conservation forests. In view of the expected
        delays the Bank had requested by December 31, 2013, a construction schedule for all five
        transmission lines indicating expected dates for securing rights of way, land acquisition, issues related
        to material supply, resolution of outstanding contractual issues, and expected completion dates of the
        lines.

7. Package 3A: The following is the current status of ROW access for each remaining line under
        Package 3A:

   i.       Bandung Selatan –Kamojang section: 13 of 87 sites are not available of which 11 are within the
            Perhutani area while 2 are in the BKSDA area. The Principal and Dispensation permits have been
            pending for several months, for entering and building on Perhutani land, along with the
            Collaboration Permit for traversing BKSDA land.

  ii.       Kamojang – Drajat section: 9 of 41 sites are not available of which 3 are within the Perhutani
            area while 6 are in the BKSDA area. The Principal and Dispensation permits have been pending
            for several months, for entering and building on Perhutani land, along with the Collaboration
            Permit for traversing BKSDA land.

                                                        38
 iii.      Wayang Windu Incomer: Line construction has been completed and the line has been energized
           with a pending Principal and Dispensation Permit. For the 14 parcels for the Wayang Windu
           Incomer land, while the Principal and Dispensation permits have yet to be issued by Perhutani for
           construction in a production forest, the process of acquiring twice the amount of land to be
           reforested is continuing in parallel. Once the replacement land is available, an Ijin Pinjam Pakai
           (Forest Land Use Permit) will be issued by Ministry of Forestry.

  iv.      Tasikmalaya –Ciamis Section: Following initial resistance from 29 land owners in the three sub-
           districts of Taman Sari, Manonjaya, and Ciamis on the compensation amount for ROW
           acquisition, PLN was informed that additional land owners in adjacent properties are also seeking
           compensation.17 As a result, PLN is working with the village heads to come to a resolution
           regarding the proposed compensation amounts.

8. Package 3B: The status of the two transmission lines under package 3B is as follows:

      i.   Drajat – Garut section: The acquisition of tower footings and obtaining ROW for the 150 kV
           Drajat – Garut line has been completed and construction can move forward upon the delivery of
           material which is ongoing. The Bank was informed however that only one work group was
           working at the site, while at least six work groups are required to enable completion of the line in
           the next six months which is unlikely to be achieved.

     ii.   Garut-Tasikmalaya section: The right-of-way acquisition for the 150 kV Garut-Tasikmalaya line
           is still pending with 40 spans out of the total of 126 spans awaiting completion of ROW
           compensation negotiations with 71 private landowners. 41 landowners in Kecamatan Tanjung
           Jaya, and 30 landowners in Kecamatan Mangkubumi have refused compensation. The revised
           completion date for this section is shown in the September 30, 2013 QPR as being December 30,
           2013 which is unlikely to be achieved. PLN informed the mission that it would take 18 months to
           complete the line following the securing of ROW from the private landowners.

As of the last supervision mission dates in mid-late 2013, the 71 landowners in both kecamatans have yet
to receive compensation. The Mission was informed that PLN is still working with the village heads to
agree on a compensation amount.

The Mission received from PLN information on land owners under the ROW, i.e. the total number of land
owners, the number of land owners who have already received compensation, the compensation amount
(in nominal Rp/m2 along with payment for trees), the number of land owners not yet compensated and the
reasons for the delay in making compensation payments. It appears that only 2.5 percent of total
landowners have yet to receive/accept compensation and the situation hasn’t changed since 2009.




17
    The amount of compensation for land under the ROW was until recently based on a Decree of the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources
at 10% of NJOP (land tax value). However, as a result of bilateral negotiations with the affected persons, PLN has paid for land acquisition at a
rate of 10% NJOP, with a minimum of Rp. 5,000/m2. For the compensation of trees and crops, the price is based on the prevailing regent decree
for each area. PLN informed the Mission that there is no pending objection from the landowners as the value of trees and crops already reflects
the market price. For instance, in the case of Tasikmalaya District, at PLN’s request the District renewed the regent decree on the price of trees
and crops during negotiation with an updated price schedule for determining the compensation amount.




                                                                       39
9. Package 6: Perak Ujung: The line is now complete and the contract for Package 6 can now be
       deemed to be satisfactorily concluded.

Enterprise Resource Planning System

10. The pilot ERP component was deployed successfully as scheduled, and in June 2008 when the project
       was restructured, a decision was made to further expand the ERP (Phase II) to cover all of PLN’s
       business units in the Java-Bali system (excluding subsidiaries), using savings18 and unallocated funds
       from the project.

11. The ERP system has significantly strengthened PLN’s management capabilities through standardized
       and more transparent business processes and has improved internal controls. As a result, there is
       improved integrity, accuracy and timeliness of corporate information that is available for PLN’s
       management for enhanced decision making. This has had a very positive effect on PLN’s capability
       to plan its yearly operations and investments, and to finance its operations by accessing capital
       markets, and by interacting with customers.

12. PLN has also made some quantitative gains in the form of savings as a result of the ERP system. It
       has been assessed that the pilot deployment of the ERP system is saving PLN over US$ 1 million per
       year while the rollout for the remainder of the Java-Bali operations is now saving more than US$ 3.9
       million on an annual basis.

Additional Financing for the Extended Deployment of the ERP System

13. The Additional Finance Loan for the Extended Deployment of the Enterprise Resource Planning
       System was approved by the Board on June 23, 2010 and was declared effective on April 21, 2011.

14. Procurement: Procurement was completed and a contract was signed with PT Accenture for the
       extended deployment of the ERP system to Sumatra and Sulawesi on November 2, 2011. The project
       is now completed.

15. The Phase III supervision services consultancy was awarded to PT Indra Sistemas and the contract
       was signed on April 27, 2012. The consultants conducted workshops with PLN’s counterpart team
       on Program Management and Risk Management. The consultants produced monthly reports and
       assisted PLN through July 2013 in monitoring and supervising the implementation in Sumatra and
       Sulawesi. The Phase III supervision consultancy is now complete.

16. The Bank Team accompanied by PLN staff had visited in July 2013 the ERP Disaster Recovery
       Center (DRC) in Gandul outside of Jakarta. The DRC for the ERP and other critical PLN
       applications were established by PT IKON+ (a wholly owned subsidiary of PLN). The DRC went
       operational on April 1, 2013. While significant progress has been made with the physical
       implementation of the DRC, the Team noted that there remains significant work needed to strengthen
       the overall Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP) and Business Continuity process in the event of an actual


     The development and implementation of the pilot ERP (phase I) came well under original estimates.
18




                                                                       40
    outage in the main data center. Similar observations have also been noted in the Phase III supervision
    consultant’s final report.

17. Overall, the Bank is satisfied with the progress and outputs of the major activities covered under the
    Additional Financing Project. Generally, the schedule has been adhered to and outputs have been
    delivered on time and within budget.

18. While the overall implementation of Phase III of the ERP implementation has been completed
    successfully, much remains to be undertaken by PLN to ensure the long-term sustainability and
    successful operation of the ERP – not just in Sumatra and Sulawesi, but also the original Phases I and
    II implementations in Java-Bali. The most significant of these issues is the lack of technical capacity
    and depth in the IT Shared Services Unit (DIVSIM). Even now, in DIVSIM, ERP staffing capacity
    has been diverted to carrying out Phase IV deployment in Kalimantan and Eastern Indonesia. This
    diversion of staff within DIVSIM has had significant impact and delays on operational support for the
    production system. For example there have been recorded instances of simple password-resets taking
    2 weeks to complete. This poor quality of operational support services threatens the credibility of the
    system and its long term sustainability. The mission recommends that PLN’s management pays close
    attention and act on the recent quarterly Risk Report produced by the Phase III Supervision
    consultants that lists in great detail the risk factors and some potential mitigating action that should be
    undertaken. These risks if not addressed are significant threats with a high probability of occurrence.


Technical Assistance to PLN

This component supported a Supplementary study for Upper Cisokan Pumped Storage Hydroelectric
Power Development Project. The work has been delivered and has resulted in a new project for IBRD for
this Pumped Storage HPP.

Technical Assistance to PGN

The studies under the TA, and the majority of the training have been completed. PGN decided to cover
the tuition and related expenses of two PGN staff using their own funds. PGN formally requested the
World Bank through the Ministry of Finance, of its intention to cancel the unused portion of the TA
Component, and the funds were canceled on July 29, 2010.




                                                     41
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Summary

      1. Presented below is the original Economic and Financial Analysis as it appeared in the PAD
         followed by the updated Analysis at project closing. The delays in project implementation have
         resulted in a reduction in the project NPV and EIRR from US$34.4 million and 14.6% to US$9.2
         million and 11.88%. However as will be seen from Table 1 of the original analysis, the NPV and
         the IRR calculated at project entry assumed an East-West transfer gain of US$27.3 million in
         avoided costs in the years 2005 and 2006, after which the 500 kV backbone to the south would be
         commissioned and the East-West transfer gain would cease. This was entirely unrealistic as it
         assumed that the entire physical project would be procured, launched, constructed, installed,
         tested and powered on in 18 months between 6/26/2003 when the project was approved and
         12/31/2004. In the event the project became effective only in 7/7/2004. Without the East West
         benefit, the NPV would have been US$-4.7million and the EIRR 9.51%. Compared to this the
         economic and financial performance has actually been better. One unexpected benefit of the
         project has been that the ERP component has started to yield savings to PLN of US$9.1 million
         p.a.

Analysis in the PAD

Cost/Benefit Analysis of 150kV Subcomponents ( for more background please refer to the PAD Annex 4)

      2. At the 150kV level, the related subcomponents of the Project are intended to: (i) similarly allow
         increased demand to be met at numerous localized sites throughout Java and Bali; and (ii) provide
         a level of security commensurate with the existing and potential West Java geothermal generation
         capacity evacuated through the 150kV sub-transmission network near Bandung (375MW).

      3. The costs side includes all the costs (net of IDC and VAT) of the Project’s 150/70kV and
         150/20kV subcomponents, with the exception of the Perak-Ujung subcomponent, which is
         considered an integral part of the above 500kV measures. For simplicity, the costs of the
         Bandung-Ciamis line uprating and the Wayang Windu incomer subcomponents are considered to
         be an integrated part of the 150kV subtransmission measures. While the costs of these
         subcomponents are included, no benefits due to improved system security are included, in order
         to be consistent with the 500kV analysis. (Nevertheless, benefits associated with reduced outages
         in the southeastern Bandung area are likely to be substantial).

      4. On the benefits side is the possible incremental demand growth with and without the proposed
         measures. The same assumptions are used as above for the 500kV investments, although the
         incremental energy is associated with the expansion of 38 substations, and is valued slightly
         higher-at US$0.006/kWh 19 . (For comparison, the Bank’s 1996 study calculated the LRMC
         between the 500kV and 150kV busbars at US$0.0077/kWh). Again, the analysis is conservative


19
     The most recent estimates of LRMCs for the Java-Bali system were undertaken in a 1999 study for ADB.



                                                        42
        because all the same quantified benefits which apply at 500kV level also apply at 150kV. In
        addition, at a significant proportion of the 38 substations included in PLN’s 150kV substation
        expansion program, existing transformers will be replaced by a new one with a larger capacity,
        rather than simply adding a new transformer. Replaced transformers can be relocated for
        utilization elsewhere in the system. The benefits of re-utilizing such transformers net of relocation
        and reinstallation costs would likely also be significant, but have not been calculated as part of
        the analysis.

    5. Again, results of the analysis are provided in Table 1. The NPV of the 150kV power transmission
       strengthening component is US$11.1 million, with a corresponding ERR of 12.1%. Combining
       the costs and benefits of both the 500kV and 150kV power system strengthening components
       results in an overall NPV of US$34.4 million, with a corresponding overall EIRR of 14.6%.




Analysis at Project Close

The methodology has been to keep all of the original assumptions the same and recalculate the NPV and
the EIRR under two scenarios: (i) there is no East West benefit and (ii) actual project disbursement and
implementation schedules.




                                                    43
    1. No East West benefit from Avoided costs.

Table 2: Original Analysis but no East West Benefit

          Peak Demand 
          Growth            Without Project         With Project              Benefits (500kV)            Benefits (150kV)                  Costs                          Net Benefit

                         500kV Uns  150kV Uns  500kV Uns  150kV Uns  Incremental Energy East‐West  Incremental Energy
                         Enrg       Enrg       Enrg       Enrg                             Transfer                         500kV      150kV      Total      500kV       150kV       Total
          (%)             (GWh)      (GWh)      (GWh)      (GWh)      (GWh)      (US$m)     (US$m)     (GWh)      (US$m)     (US$m)     (US$m)     (US$m)    (US$m)       (US$m)      (US$m)
   2003          4.50%            0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0        5.7        6.1       11.8        ‐5.7        ‐6.1       ‐11.8
   2004          4.20%            0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0       28.3       30.7       58.9      ‐ 28.3       ‐30.7          ‐59
   2005          0.00%            0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0       22.3       24.5       46.9      ‐ 22.3       ‐24.5       ‐46.8
   2006          5.10%            0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0                                            0           0            0
   2007          5.00%           53        230          0          0         53      0.212          0        230       1.38                                      0.212          1.38       1.592
   2008          7.90%          253        632          0          0        253      1.012          0        632      3.792                                      1.012        3.792        4.804
   2009          9.00%          500      1126           0          0        500          2          0      1126       6.756                                            2      6.756        8.756
   2010          8.00%          738      1605           0          0        738      2.952          0      1605        9.63                                      2.952          9.63     12.582
   2011          6.00%          931      1992           0          0        931      3.724          0      1992      11.952                                      3.724       11.952      15.676
   2012          6.00%        1136       2403           0         33      1136       4.544          0      2370       14.22                                      4.544        14.22      18.764
   2013          6.00%        1353       2839           0        469      1353       5.412          0      2370       14.22                                      5.412        14.22      19.632
   2014          6.00%        1583       3301           0        931      1583       6.332          0      2370       14.22                                      6.332        14.22      20.552
   2015          6.00%        1827       3791           0      1420       1827       7.308          0      2371      14.226                                      7.308       14.226      21.534
   2016          5.00%        2043       4223           0      1853       2043       8.172          0      2370       14.22                                      8.172        14.22      22.392
   2017          5.00%        2269       4677           0      2307       2269       9.076          0      2370       14.22                                      9.076        14.22      23.296
   2018          5.00%        2506       5154          24      2784       2482       9.928          0      2370       14.22                                      9.928        14.22      24.148
   2019          5.00%        2756       5655         274      3284       2482       9.928          0      2371      14.226                                      9.928       14.226      24.154
   2020          5.00%        3018       6180         536      3810       2482       9.928          0      2370       14.22                                      9.928        14.22      24.148
   2021          5.00%        3293       6732         811      4362       2482       9.928          0      2370       14.22                                      9.928        14.22      24.148
   2022          5.00%        3293       6732         811      4362       2482       9.928          0      2370       14.22                                      9.928        14.22      24.148
   2023          5.00%        3293       6732         811      4362       2482       9.928          0      2370       14.22                                      9.928        14.22      24.148
   2024          5.00%        3293       6732         811      4362       2482       9.928          0      2370       14.22                                      9.928        14.22      24.148
   2025          5.00%        3581       7312       1099       4941       2482       9.928          0      2371      14.226                                      9.928       14.226      24.154
                                                                                                                                                  NPV (2002)      ‐ 15.9        11.1         ‐4.7
                                                                                                                                                  EIRR           6.33%       12.13%       9.51%




Actual project disbursement and implementation schedules. In the original analysis the costs were the
costs of the physical components, while the benefits considered were only the value of the possible
incremental demand growth with and without the project, and the avoided cost of generation achieved by
relieving the 400MW east-west transfer constraint. To be conservative, the analysis did not include
several other benefits, such as (i) reduced system losses; (ii) improved voltages; (iii) extended transformer
lifetimes; and (iv) fewer localized planned and unplanned system outages. Furthermore, the approach
taken also did not account for the benefit value of unserved energy (on a consumer willingness-to-pay
basis), which would likely be considerably higher than the difference in LRMC values used in the
analysis. Also, while the costs of the transmission lines uprating was included, no financial benefits
associated with it were included since, unlike the substations, the existing capacities of sub-transmission
and distribution lines were in most cases sufficient to meet the expected medium-term demand growth
and would only become critical when the new power plants in the regions near Bandung would come on
stream.




                                                                                            44
Within this analytical framework, the delays in the project would have eliminated the avoided cost
savings of removing the East West constraint, as the 500kV line would have been already commissioned.


                              Table 3: Actual disbursements and implementation Schedule

           Peak Demand                                                                                                     Cost Total       Net Benefit 
           Growth            Without Project        With Project             Benefits (500kV)           Benefits (150kV)   (500kV + 150 kV) Total

                          500kV Uns  150kV Uns  500kV Uns  150kV Uns  Incremental Energy East‐West  Incremental Energy
                          Enrg       Enrg       Enrg       Enrg                            Transfer
           (%)             (GWh)      (GWh)      (GWh)      (GWh)      (GWh)     (US$m)     (US$m)     (GWh)     (US$m)     (US$m)           (US$m)
    2003          4.50%            0          0          0          0         0          0          0         0          0                               0
    2004          4.20%            0          0          0          0         0          0          0         0          0                               0
    2005          0.00%            0          0          0          0         0          0          0         0          0                               0
    2006          5.10%            0          0          0          0         0          0          0         0          0            3.742         ‐3.742
    2007          5.00%           53        230         53        230         0          0          0         0          0            9.675         ‐9.675
    2008          7.90%          253        632        253        632         0          0          0         0          0           46.578        ‐46.578
    2009          9.00%          500      1126         500      1126          0          0          0         0          0            18.63         ‐18.63
    2010          8.00%          738      1605         738      1605          0          0          0         0          0            15.24         ‐15.24
    2011          6.00%          931      1992         931      1992          0          0          0         0          0            1.319         ‐1.319
    2012          6.00%        1136       2403       1136       2403          0          0          0         0          0            0.091         ‐0.091
    2013          6.00%        1353       2839           0        469      1353      5.412          0      2370      14.22            1.873         17.759
    2014          6.00%        1583       3301           0        931      1583      6.332          0      2370      14.22                          20.552
    2015          6.00%        1827       3791           0      1421       1827      7.308          0      2370      14.22                          21.528
    2016          5.00%        2043       4223           0      1853       2043      8.172          0      2370      14.22                          22.392
    2017          5.00%        2269       4677           0      2307       2269      9.076          0      2370      14.22                          23.296
    2018          5.00%        2506       5154          24      2784       2482      9.928          0      2370      14.22                          24.148
    2019          5.00%        2756       5655         274      3285       2482      9.928          0      2370      14.22                          24.148
    2020          5.00%        3018       6180         536      3810       2482      9.928          0      2370      14.22                          24.148
    2021          5.00%        3293       6732         811      4362       2482      9.928          0      2370      14.22                          24.148
    2022          5.00%        3293       6732         811      4362       2482      9.928          0      2370      14.22                          24.148
    2023          5.00%        3293       6732         811      4362       2482      9.928          0      2370      14.22                          24.148
    2024          5.00%        3293       6732         811      4362       2482      9.928          0      2370      14.22                          24.148
    2025          5.00%        3581       7312       1099       4942       2482      9.928          0      2370      14.22                          24.148
                                                                                                                           NPV (2002)                  9.2
                                                                                                                           EIRR                    11.88%




This analysis assumes that all equipment has been installed and powered up as of 2012. The less than
50% load balance in the 150kV transmission lines, (see figure 2 below) due mainly to the East West
backbone, results in the entire incremental energy to be attributable to the transformers and substations.
However, the analyses include the cost of the new transmission lines as they are a part of the project and
would become essential for evacuating the new power plants at Wayang Windu and Kamojang, without
losing the n-1 status of the 150kV lines.




                                                                           45
The ERP project is yielding over US$9.1 million in annual savings which were not previously anticipated.
At a project cost of US$41 million this yields an NPV of US$8.1 million and an IRR of 14.95 %

Table 4: ERP System
                                                       Savings from 
                ERP cost             ERP Benefit 
                                                       ERP System 
                (US$m)               (US$m)            (US$m) 
        2003                                                         0 
        2004                                                         0 
        2005                2.579                              ‐2.579 
        2006                5.657                              ‐5.657 
        2007                4.602                 1                 ‐4 
        2008                9.955                 1            ‐8.918 
        2009                1.254                 4             2.323 
        2010                1.119                 4             2.458 
        2011                                      4             3.577 
        2012              11.642                  4            ‐8.065 
        2013               7.076                  4            ‐3.499 
        2014                                      9             9.066 
        2015                                      9             9.066 
        2016                                      9             9.066 
        2017                                      9             9.066 
        2018                                      9             9.066 
        2019                                      9             9.066 
        2020                                      9             9.066 
        2021                                      9             9.066 
        2022                                      9             9.066 
        2023                                      9             9.066 
        2024                                      9             9.066 
        2025                                      9             9.066 
                                               NPV                 8.1 
                                               EIRR           14.95% 



                                                                    46
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                              Responsibility/
               Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Mohammad Farhandi         Sector Director (Acting)                         Task Team Leader
Kurt Schenk               Power Engineer/Procurement Specialist            Power Engineer
Rajiv Sondhi              Senior Finance Officer                  CTRLA    FM Specialist
                                                                           Environmental
Thomas E. Walton          Consultant                              EASNS
                                                                           Safeguards
Farida Zaituni            Environment Specialist                           Environment Specialist
Karin Nordlander          Lead Counsel                                     Legal Counsel
Yuling Zhou               Lead Procurement Specialist             EASR2    Procurement
                                                                           Information
Ramesh Sivapathasundram   Lead Information Officer                TWICT
                                                                           Technology
Yogana Prasta             Disbursement Officer                    EACIF    Operations Adviser
Carla Sarmiento           Program Assistant                       EASWE    Program Assistant
Perry Radford             Program Assistant                       EASWE    Program Assistant
Supervision/ICR
                                                                           Task Team Leader
Dhruva Sahai              Sr Financial Analyst                    EASWE
                                                                           [Current]
Noureddine Berrah         Consultant                               EASIS   Task Team Leader
Migara Jayawardena        Senior Energy Specialist                LCSEG    Task Team Leader
Chrisantha Ratnayake      Consultant                              AFTG1    Transmission Engineer
Leiping Wang              Lead Energy Specialist                  SASDE    Power engineer
Makoto Takeuchi           Senior Power Engineer                   EASWE    Power Engineer
                                                                           Information
Ramesh Sivapathasundram   Lead Information Officer                TWICT
                                                                           Technology
Yogana Prasta             Operations Adviser                      EACIF    Operations Adviser
Eka Zarmen Putra          Operations Officer                      CFPTO    Operations Officer
Melinda Good              Chief Counsel                           LEGES    Legal
Sameena Dost              Senior Counsel                          LEGES    Legal
Mariangeles Sabella       Senior Counsel                          LEGES    Legal
Rajat Narula              Sr Financial Management Specialist      EASFM    Financial Management
Christina I. Donna        Financial Management Specialist         EASFM    Financial Management
Arip Syaman Sholeh        Consultant                              EASFM    Financial Management
Ahsan Ali                 Lead Procurement Specialist             EASR1    Procurement
Zhentu Liu                Senior Procurement Specialist           EASR2    Procurement
Yash Gupta                Senior Procurement Specialist           EASR1    Procurement
Ninin K. Dewi             Consultant                              EASIS    Social Safeguards
                                                                           Environmental
Ina Pranoto               Senior Environmental Specialist         EASIS
                                                                           Safeguards
                                                                           Environmental
Krisnan Isomartana        Environmental Specialist                EASIS
                                                                           Safeguards
Puguh Imanto              Energy Specialist                       EASIS    Energy Specialist

                                               47
Emil Elestianto                    Consultant                      EASIN    Consultant
Shawna Fei Li                      Junior Professional Associate   EASIN    Team support
Luis-Jose Mejia                    Consultant                      LCSPS    Consultant
Satiriantinah Bur Rasuanto         Special Assistant               EACIF    Special Assistant
Jeeyoon Jeeny Kim                  Consultant                      EASWE    Team support
Elvi Yani Dewi Nasution Schaefer   Energy Spec.                     EASIS   Team support
Teresita G. Velilla                Temporary                       ECSPE    Team support
Fnu Hanny                          Program Assistant               EASER    Team support
Maya Augustin                      E T Temporary                   EACIF    E T Temporary




                                                      48
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                  72.37
  FY00                                    4                              8.95
  FY01                                   19                            120.13
  FY02                                   15                            184.60
  FY03                                   25                            225.30
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
  FY08                                                                   0.00
                          Total:         63                            611.35
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                                   0.00
  FY00                                                                   0.01
  FY01                                                                   4.23
  FY02                                                                   0.00
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                   14                            122.94
  FY05                                   13                             73.22
  FY06                                   14                             77.06
  FY07                                   22                            106.76
  FY08                                   15                             86.33
  FY09                                    1                              0.00
                          Total:         79                            470.55




                                       49
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)N/A




                                      50
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)See attached PDFs

Stakeholder Workshops and Public Consultation on Java-Bali Power Sector Restructuring and
Strengthening Project

As part of the preparation of Environmental and Social Assessment and Management Plan (ESAMP),
PLN conducted public consultation with the people in the project area. The first meeting during project
preparation was conducted in Surabaya on a planned subproject activity, the Perak-Ujung line uprating on
July 10, 2002. This consultation was conducted at the municipal level, with representatives from most of
the stakeholder groups: government agencies, landholders, local businesses, community organizations and
academics. All participants agreed that the meeting was useful and, the meeting appears to have provided
a good model for such meetings in future. (Minutes of meeting were attached in the ESAMP document
dated March 2003).

The meeting concluded that:
    Project consultation at kecamatan (sub-district) level should be conducted in order to involve
       more local stakeholders (i.e. communities);
    Partnership with related institutions should be developed as part of the AMDAL process to ensure
       that full transparency occurs;
    Technical reviews on the transmission project should be conducted in order to measure the impact
       on port authority and navy activities;
    Community support of the project is necessary because of the importance of the project to the
       East Java region.

After that first meeting, many other meetings were conducted during project preparation as well as
implementation. Public consultation was done during the AMDAL (Environmental and Social Impact
Assessment) preparation and several more meetings were conducted as part of the land acquisition
process during project implementation.

On the land acquisition process, PLN conducted a number of discussions with the community in the
affected villages, particularly with the people whose assets were affected by the project. PLN provided
the Bank with minutes of meetings in Bahasa which are summarized below:

   1. Negotiation on land compensation at Desa Sirnajaya Kecamatan Tarogong for the Drajat-Garut
      Transmission Line on December 12, 2007. The meeting was attended by land owners, the land
      acquisition committee and the local government apparatus (head of subdistrict and head of
      village). The only agenda of the meeting was negotiation on land compensation, for which they
      agreed on the amount of compensation at the end of the meeting.

   2. Socialization on land compensation under the ROW of the transmission line for the Garut-
      Tasikmalaya Transmission Line on November 18, 2009 in Desa Margalaksana. The meeting
      reached agreement on the compensation for trees/crops under the ROW, which would refer to the
      Decree of Kabupaten Tasikmalaya Agricultural Office and compensation for the land under the
                                                  51
    ROW would refer to the KepMen No. 975.K/47/MPE/1999. The meeting also reached agreement
    on the compensation amount for structures/buildings.

3. The latest meeting is the socialization meeting for the construction of Tower No. 38 at Desa
   Sirnajaya for Drajat-Garut Transmission Lines that was held on September 27, 2013. The
   socialization was particularly targeted to the residents of the BUMARAS residential complex.
   The meeting was attended by the residents of the complex, the local government apparatus, and
   by the developer. PLN provided information on the project and informed the attendees that the
   transmission line would pass through the complex. The community’s concern was more on the
   safety of the transmission line as well as the tower that would be built in the area and they asked
   for compensation for buildings that would be affected by this component of the project.




                                               52
         Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

    1. Background

The Java-Bali transmission system comprises of a 500 kV backbone overlaying a regional 150 kV sub-
transmission network. The 500 kV network is a relatively new system that was built in the 1980s and
1990s. It predominantly comprises of a two circuit line running from the east to the west of northern Java.
The 500 kV network runs in parallel with the 150kV network. It is largely radial in nature, and will
remain this way until a southern 500kV transmission route completing a 500 kV double circuit
transmission loop around most of Java is fully commissioned. Major generation capacity is mostly
installed close to the northern section of the 500kV system.

To strengthen the system the World Bank financed the Java-Bali Power Sector Restructuring and
Strengthening Project (Loan no. 4712-IND) which was signed on October 1, 2003 and the loan became
effective on July 7, 2004. The original validity of the loan was through December 31, 2008, and the loan
was extended three times in order to allow for the construction of outstanding transmission lines, and for
the installation of a few remaining transformers. The first extension was until December 31, 2009, the
second extension until December 31, 2011, and the last extension was until December 31, 2013.
In 2010 at the conversion of the loan from a variable to a fixed spread loan, the loan number was changed
from 4712-IND to 7758-ID.

The Loan categories and related amounts were revised during a restructuring of the loan and confirmed
through a World Bank letter on June 27, 2008.

    2. Project Development Objective

The development objective of the Project is to improve the performance of the power sector on Java-Bali
by supporting the State power company (PLN) to implement its financial and corporate restructuring plan,
and to strengthen key elements of the Java-Bali electricity supply system.

The revised development objective of the project became to improve the reliability and efficiency of the
power system in Java-Bali and strengthen PLN and PGN’s management capabilities. This objective is to
be achieved through the provision of World Bank financing toward priority investments and technical
assistance for PLN, and technical assistance for PGN. In particular, project components for PLN will: (i)
achieve greater utilization of existing generation capacity on East Java, by relieving constraints in the
bulk transmission grid; (ii) improve the reliability of existing generation supply at the PLN and
independent power producer (IPP) geothermal power plants on West Java, by strengthening the associated
local transmission system; (iii) improve the reliability of power supply at various locations throughout
Java and Bali, by strengthening and debottlenecking local transmission and sub-transmission networks;
and (iv) by strengthening PLN's management capabilities by enhancing the company's information
systems. Technical assistance to PGN will enhance its capabilities for expanding gas utilization on Java.

    3. The Main Components of the Project

Description of the Project (for PLN’s Portion) by component is as follows.

1. PLN Power System Strengthening (500 kV Transmission System &150 kV Sub transmission System)
      a. Package IFB - 1 : 500/150 kV Substation for West Java and Jakarta

                                                   53
        b. Package IFB - 2a : Supply and Installation of 150 kV Substations for West Java and
                              Jakarta
        c. Package IFB - 2b : Supply and Installation of 150 kV Substations for West Java and Jakarta
        d. Package IFB - 3a : Supply and Installation of 150 kV Transmission Lines for West Java
                              and Jakarta
        e. Package IFB - 3b : Supply and Installation of 150 kV Transmission Lines for West Java
                              and Jakarta
        f. Package IFB - 4 : Supply and Installation of 500 / 150 kV Substation for East Java and
                              Central Java
        g. Package IFB - 5 : Supply and Installation of 150 kV Substation for Central, East Java and
                              Bali
        h. Package IFB – 6 : Supply and Installation of 150 kV Transmission Line for East Java

2. PLN Enterprise Resource Planning System

        -   PLN ERP Pilot Implementation Project
        -   PLN ERP Rollout Implementation Project

3. PLN Restructuring & Institutional Strengthening (Technical Assistance):

        -   Supplementary study for Upper Cisokan Pumped Storage Hydroelectric Power Development
            Project.

    4. Assessment of Outcomes

              A. Relevance and Impact of the Project and its Objectives

The project was very important for the development of the Indonesian power sector and Java Bali in
particular. It remains very relevant to the development needs of Indonesia to this day and has been of
immense benefit to the country’s access to electricity. The project is now enabling PLN to supply power
from plants in East Java to the rapidly growing demand centers in West Java, as initially envisaged.

The installment of power transformers in Surabaya Selatan 500 kV Substation and New Kediri 500 kV
Substation helps to relieve the highly loaded Krian 500 kV substation in East Java. The expansion of the
existing power transmission Mandirancan substation 500 kV is relieving the load of Interbus Transformer
existing, and strengthening the network in order to be able to transfer the surplus power from East Java to
Bandung and Cirebon area.

The Balaraja 500 kV substation was built to relieve system loading of the Gandul and Kembangan 500
kV substations, and to strengthen the network in the Balaraja area and at the nearby industrial estate and
also to anticipate the commissioning of a new power plant. Packages IFB 3A, IFB 3B and IFB 6 were
changed from re-conductoring of existing transmission lines to new route constructions of transmission
lines parallel to the existing transmission lines, whilst packages 2A, 2B and 5 are for the expansion of
existing power transmission substations to relieve overloading in existing transformers.




                                                    54
                 B. Achievement of the Objectives

The development objective and the indicators, continue to remain relevant. As mentioned, the project is
now enabling PLN to supply power from plants in East Java to the rapidly growing demand centers in
West Java, as initially envisaged.

The substations have all been completed and the ERP system is up and running in all three of the phases
funded by the World Bank. The reliability and efficiency of the power system has been substantially
improved by the project. All transformers have been installed and energized. The World Bank’s project
team was flexible and worked with PLN to relocate transformers to alternative substations to
accommodate changing demand patterns and evolving network configurations. Substation loading and
voltage levels have been significantly improved with more stability in the system. The transmission lines
completed so far are allowing power to be evacuated from new generation facilities and the other lines
when completed will help to evacuate power from two power plant extensions when they are expected to
be commissioned from 2016 through 2018. The three phases of the ERP system now cover 84 percent of
staff, and 94 percent of revenues, and generate cost savings of US$ 9.1 million p.a. The system has
improved PLN’s financial, human resources and materials management. More timely financial statement
issue has led to greater access to capital.

There is presently, a heightened importance of these investments, since PLN is in the process of
expanding power generation in East Java by a further 2,500 MW as part of the country’s accelerated
power generation expansion program. The efficiency, voltage, load factors have all improved
significantly as a result of the project, bringing the stated and much needed benefit and relief to the
population served. In short the objectives of the project have all been fully achieved.


                 C. Achievement of Performance Indicators

                                             DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
The revised development objective of the project became to improve the reliability and efficiency of the power system in
Java-Bali and strengthen PLN and PGN’s management capabilities.
                                                     Original Target Actual Value Achieved             Assessment
   Performance
                        Baseline Value 2002            Values (from       at Completion or
     Indicator
                                                  approval documents)       Target Years
                                                  Additional 2000 MW
Dispatch capability
                    Around 2000 MW of dispatch of dispatch capability
of generation units                                                            2322 MW            Achieved over 100%
                    capability in 2002            by project closing
in East Java
                                                  date.
Substation                                        The majority of                                  Achieved objective
                    The majority of substations
loadings at key                                   substations have                        20              100%
                    have loadings at 80% of the                             Avge 68.5%
Java-Bali 500kV                                   loadings at 50%-60%
                    capacity or more in 2002
and 150kV                                         of the capacity.


20
   During the project implementation period, both the demand forecast and the generation supply have increased at a pace far
greater than originally projected. Originally, PLN’s demand growth was estimated to peak at 9% p.a., in 2009 and then stabilize
at 5% over the longer term. At present the long term peak demand trend forecast is of the order of 8%. At the same time
generation capacity is also increasing much faster under the 10,000 MW “Crash Program”. Under the circumstances, the
indicator can be deemed to have been met.


                                                              55
substations
                                                         The majority of key
Voltages at key          The majority of key 150kV       150kV substations
150kV substations        substations voltages are        voltages are operating   100%
                                                                                            Achieved over 100%
in Southeastern          operating at 90% of capacity,   at 100% of capacity or
Java                     or at 135kV in 2002             150 kV by project
                                                         closing
Improved impact
on operational                      90 days                     45 days           45 days   Achieved over 100%
efficiency

       5. Implementation Status of the Physical Components

            A.         Environment

The World Bank’s Environmental Management Plan (EMP) approved of Indonesia's environmental
impact assessment documentation, namely the ANDAL/RKL/RPL21 and the UKLAJPL; the institutional
responsibilities for monitoring and enforcing the implementation of the RKL/RPL and UKLAJPL
recommendations, requirements and approaches for training programs, and other institutional
strengthening measures. This very detailed and exhaustive environmental safeguards effort was
undertaken over a period of three years and it covered all environmental safeguards aspects of the project.

The Project Environmental Team (PET) oversees and coordinates all aspects of the Project's
Environmental Management Plan, including any issues relating to land acquisition, compensation
and resettlement as outlined in the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework.

PLN has established a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with overall responsibility for coordinating and
managing the project, and the Project Environmental Team (PET) worked under the direction of the
leader of the PIU. The relationship between the project management team, PLN management, the World
Bank and the Government is shown in Figure 1.




21
     Copies available on file.


                                                              56
AMDAL ASSESSMENTS:

The PET oversees any needed AMDAL studies in collaboration with PLN’s project operations units.

Since the current regulation of the Ministry of Environment (Decree No. 17/2001) requires an AMDAL
study for every 150 kV transmission project, PLN carried out an EIA for each transmission line even
though these subprojects are expected to have only minor impact. If either ANDAL-RKL-RPL or UKL-
UPL were needed, the PET reviewed the terms of reference for the preparation of the above studies,
and provided advice and support to the project implementation unit. The PET also reviewed the results of
these studies to ensure that they were satisfactorily completed and were ready for submission to the
relevant AMDAL Commission.

PUBLIC CONSULTATION:

Public consultation with affected communities is now required in the screening and TOR
preparation of AMDAL studies, and the affected public is represented in the AMDAL
Commissions that review the ANDAL/RPL/RKL studies.

During the preparation of the JBPSRS Project's EMP, PLN convened a public consultation in Surabaya
concerning the planned Perak-Ujung transmission line uprating project. This meeting provided a model
for consultations that would be conducted in the future for this (and other) project activities. In addition,
the Ministry of Environment with World Bank support is preparing guidelines for public consultation
under the AMDAL process.

PLN's POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR LAND ACQUISITION, COMPENSATION
AND RESETTLEMENT:

PLN's established procedures for designing, building, and maintaining transmission lines
are summarized in its General Policy Concerning the Establishment of Overhead Transmission
Lines, which has been incorporated into the Project's EMP and in the Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Policy Framework.



                                                     57
The General Policy addresses public participation, resettlement, land acquisition, compensation and
rehabilitation of property, and general mitigation measures. This policy has previously been reviewed and
approved by the World Bank. The existing General Policy provides adequate guidance for activities
planned under the JBPSRS Project. PLN's detailed policies and procedures in the General Policy
applicable to land acquisition, compensation, and resettlement have been provided to the Bank.

MONITORING AND REPORTING

Environmental monitoring for the JBPSRS Project will be under the authority of the PET. The
PET's team leader receives copies of all progress and other reports required under the AMDAL
process, and shares them with all members of the PET.

In addition to the AMDAL reports, which are to be submitted as required to Indonesian agencies, the PET
prepares, every quarter, a quarterly progress report containing an environmental summary section. This
report is submitted in English to the World Bank. The environmental summary briefly describes:

       a list of new subprojects developed or approved for implementation, and the categorization
        of their likely environmental impact;
       a summary of progress of any AMDAL studies in progress;
       a summary of significant mitigation measures, if any, undertaken during the previous six months
        (including details of any land acquisition and compensation);
       a description of any significant problems or successes in environmental mitigation during the
        period; and
       identification of any notable environmental or social events anticipated during the coming six
        months

    B. Social Impact Assessment

The Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework has been prepared by PLN with support
provided by the World Bank as part of joint project preparation. It is a companion document to PLN's
Environmental & Social Assessment and Management Plan for the Project.

As discussed with Bank planning missions in November 2001 and May 2002, the JBPSRS Project would
be a Sector Investment Loan (SIL). The loan would provide financing for a range of critical projects
under PLN's Limited Scenario (2002-2006) for Java-Bali. Major types of subproject activities covered
by the loan include:
     Relieving constraints in the Bulk Transmission System, which will improve power supply to the
         Cirebon area and to the southern part of Central Java;
     Improving availability and security of generation capacity by improving the transmission system
         from the geothermal power plants at Wayang Windu, Kamojang, and Drajat in West Java;
     Strengthening local transmission and sub-transmission systems, including in Cirebon, Surabaya,
         Bandung, and Bali.

These activities would all improve the existing transmission system, and thereby provide significant
social and economic benefits to the people of Java-Bali. However, PLN appreciated the need for
comprehensive analysis and mitigation of potentially adverse or negative impacts to the surrounding
environment and communities. From past experience, PLN has learned that it is less costly to prevent,
avoid, and mitigate problems than to be confronted by them after the fact.
                                                   58
Equally important, PLN's activities are subject to Indonesia's national environmental assessment
regulations and they need to be in compliance with the World Bank's environmental and social safeguards
policies and guidelines.

    C. Project Sustainability

After completion, the projects funded by the World Bank will be transferred to and operated by PLN’s
operations unit, which will also be responsible for maintaining the project’s assets for the duration of their
operating life.

The operating life of the transmission lines and substation systems is estimated to be more than 30 years.
PLN will keep utilizing the project’s physical components to ensure the efficient and reliable supply of
electricity in response to growing electricity demand.

In addition the Enterprise Resource Planning System will support PLN’s Human Resources Management,
Financial Management, and Materials Management systems and enhance its information systems
capabilities. Given the growth in PLN’s role in meeting electricity demand, the ERP System will
continue to play an important part in improving the timeliness of PLN’s reporting standards, and enhance
the effectiveness of management decisions.

In addition, the TA for financing the feasibility study for the Upper Cisokan Pumped storage HEPP led to
loan approval for the first pumped storage project in Indonesia, which would improve the load factor of
the Jawa Bali electricity system (flattens out load variations). A better load factor would enable thermal
power stations such as coal-fired plants that provide base-load electricity to continue operating at peak
efficiency, while reducing the need for "peaking" power plants.

    6. Performance Assessment

    A. World Bank’s Performance

According to the guidance received from the World Bank, evaluation of World Bank performance needs
to include both evaluation of preparation of the project as well as the World Bank’s performance in terms
of supervision during the implementation phase.

As the preparation of the project predates the year 2003, PLN’s institutional memory of that phase is
limited. Anecdotal information and review of materials that are available indicate that there was close
cooperation between PLN and the World Bank in the process of preparing the project. For PLN that was
a period of change and there were several reorganizations underway at the time. As a result, there is very
little information on the details of the preparation issues at the time. Overall it is the impression of our
management and staff who have worked with the World Bank in the past, that the World Bank’s inputs
during the preparation process were very valuable and in addition to helping to design the project,
cooperation with the World Bank, also resulted in transfer of knowledge on international best practices.

As to supervision during implementation, there is a greater amount of institutional memory. The
cooperation with the World Bank team during implementation and the availability and flexibility of the
interaction was highly satisfactory to PLN. The World Bank worked closely with PLN during the time
when the project had to be restructured due to changes in the electricity law. This was a major change in
the structure of the project and its objectives, and the support and cooperation of the World Bank during
                                                     59
this period as well as its continued presence in the field, was indeed very helpful for PLN staff. As to the
several extension requests due to right of way issues, the World Bank has been exceedingly cooperative
and supportive of the process and has accommodated the needs of PLN with three extensions granted for
a project, that would otherwise have been completed several years prior. In this context, PLN would rate
the World Bank’s supervision performance as having been highly satisfactory. However some in PLN
hold the opinion that the World Bank could have done more in working with higher levels of Government
to address legal and other issues, such as traversing conservation forests that were impeding the
implementation of the transmission lines due to right of way issues. The World Bank had several other
operations underway in the country, including development policy operations, and had the wherewithal to
assist in alleviating some of the constraints that were impeding the full implementation of this project
However, it also needs to be recognized that due to negotiations that were underway between the PLN
and various Ministries, PLN management did request the World Bank not to intervene.

    B. Evaluation of PLN’s Own Performance

The evaluation of PLN’s own performance, would necessarily be more subjective than its evaluation of
the World Bank. The guidance from the World Bank in terms of borrower performance as a whole, is
that it needs to include both the performance of the Government as the borrower and the performance of
PLN as the beneficiary of the World Bank loan. In terms of borrower performance at the Government
level, more could clearly have been done to facilitate the implementation of the right of way issues
especially when it came to conservation forests and arrangements with land holders within the scope of
the law in Indonesia.

The performance of PLN as the beneficiary must necessarily be somewhat more subjective. However in
all candor, it needs to be recognized that PLN worked closely with the World Bank in almost every aspect
of the implementation process and has diligently met the monitoring and evaluation requirements set forth
in the original project implementation plan. The procurement process conducted by PLN conformed in
every way to the requirements of the World Bank’s procurement guidelines. But more than that, the
procurement was efficient and the resulting costs were well managed. One example of this would be on
the issue of having parallel transmission lines instead of uprating the transmission lines as was originally
planned under the project. Due to the highly competitive procurement procedures adopted by PLN, the
cost of the parallel lines initially came in no higher than the cost of the original uprating of the
transmission lines. Except for two contracts, all the other contracts for substations and transmission lines
have been executed satisfactorily.

 The quarterly progress reports have been diligently provided with the regularity, clarity and the required
level of detail. PLN has also worked closely with the World Bank to make changes as needed promptly
and diligently, for example transferring transformers from one location to another in order to ensure that
substation loading levels and voltages regulation remain within the performance indicators of the project.
All the performance indicators of the project had been met. This was certainly in part due to the efforts
and diligence of PLN and staff.

    7. Key Lessons Learned

The project has faced several obstacles during implementation and this has yielded important lessons for
the future:




                                                    60
No.                       Problems                                         Lessons Learned
1.    Protracted process for land acquisition including    Better coordination between PT PLN (Persero)
      lengthy and unclear procedures for obtaining         and all stakeholders in order to reduce the time
      permits for land use in forestry (Perhutani and      required to secure permits for the utilization of
      BKSDA) areas.                                        forestry areas.
2.    Lengthy and protracted compensation process for      Land acquisition issues to be resolved prior to
      land acquisition leading to delays in project        contract signature.
      construction start.
3.    Electrical systems being unavailable for shut        Better coordination among operations divisions
      down leading to a change in the project’s            during project preparation in order to arrive at an
      configuration.                                       optimal design configuration.

4.    Poor contractor performance.                         Improving the procurement process (including
                                                           the preparation of bidding documents) and
                                                           locating the implementing unit in the
                                                           appropriate department within the organization.

5.    Organizational changes at PLN leading to delays      Organizational changes need to be followed
      in project implementation.                           immediately with making human resources
                                                           available for timely and effective project
                                                           monitoring during implementation.




                                                          61
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


N/A




                                       62
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


   1.  PAD
   2.  CPS/CAS
   3.  ISR
   4.  QALP Report
   5.  QALP Staff Rejoinder
   6.  Aide Memoire for ICR mission
   7.  Environmental assessments, EISA?
   8.  Quarterly Progress no. 30: July-September 2013
   9.  Project Paper June 2008
   10. PLN Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework
   11. PLN Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
   12. Evidentiary Materials
           a. ERP Savings
           b. Performance Indicators
           c. Java Bali Substation Voltages
   13. Other;
           a. Report No. 27246-IND
           b. Connectivity Development Policy Loan 2 - P144774
           c. Toward universal electricity access : renewable energy-based geospatial least-cost
               electrification planning - Sahai Dhruva Nov 01, 2013
           d. US Department of Energy: Electricity Transmission Congestion Costs:
               A Review of Recent Reports




                                                 63
64
