                       Document of
                    The World Bank


                                                  Report No:   66192 v1



                 RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                          ON A

           PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                            OF

JAVA-BALI POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AND STRENGTHENING
                        PROJECT

                  LOAN 7758-ID/4712-IND

                       June 26, 2003


                         TO THE

                 REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA


                    December 27, 2011
                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




BKSDA              Office of Natural Resources Conservation
ERP                Enterprise Resource Planning System
FM                 Financial Management
PLN                Perusahaan Listrik Negara (Persero)
PGN                Perusahaan Gas Negara
Perhutani          State-owned Enterprise under the Ministry of Forestry
ROW                Right of Way




             Regional Vice President:        James W. Adams
                    Country Director:        Stefan G. Koeberle
            Sector Manager / Director:       Franz R. Drees-Gross
                   Task Team Leader:         Dhruva Sahai

                                         2
         INDONESIA — JAVA-BALI POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AND
                         STRENGTHENING PROJECT
                                 P063913
                           LOAN 7758-ID/4712-IND

                                    Restructuring Paper


1. The closing date for the Indonesia, Java-Bali Power Sector Restructuring and
   Strengthening Project, [Loan No 7758-ID/4712 IND], P063913 will be extended
   from December 31, 2011 until December 31, 2013.

2. The performance of the borrower and the implementing agency is satisfactory in
   general and there are no unfulfilled covenants or outstanding or qualified audit reports
   or financial reports, nor are there any problems with the audit or FM reports that have
   been submitted by the project implementing agency, PLN.

      The project is structured under five components (a) Power System Strengthening (500
      kV transmission system), (b) Power System Strengthening (150 kV subtransmission
      system), (c) PLN Enterprise Resource Planning System (ERP), (d) PLN restructuring
      and institutional strengthening (TA), and (e) PGN restructuring and institutional
      strengthening (TA). The current status of these components is described below.
      However, for the purpose of clarity related to this request for an extension of the loan
      closing date, the components (a) and (b) above are re-classified under (i) transmission
      line works and (ii) substation works.

      The ongoing project work is being carried out satisfactorily except for the time delays
      experienced in some items as detailed below.

      i. Transmission line works: The main delays have been encountered in Component
         (i) transmission line works (package nos. 3A, and 3B) mainly on account of the
         difficulties in securing the rights of way (ROW) needed for construction. PLN
         was expected to complete seven (7) lines under packages 3A, 3B, and 6 of which
         two lines will have been completed by the current loan closing date of December
         31, 2011 (see Table 1).

         Table 1: Transmission Line Works

      Package                            Completion                Pending Issues
                                         Status % as of
                                         Sept. 30, 2011
      3A
i     150kV Bandung Selatan – Kamojang        87.7          Perhutani, BKSDA clearances
                                                           pending, price escalation dispute
                                                                 awaiting resolution
ii    150kV Wayang Windu Incomer              100         Completed. To be energized by Dec.
                                                                       31, 2011
iii   150kV Kamojang - Drajat                 83.5          Perhutani, BKSDA clearances
                                                           pending, price escalation dispute

                                               3
                                                                  awaiting resolution
iv    150kV Tasikmalaya - Ciamis             85.1          ROW negotiations ongoing with
                                                         private landowners, price escalation
                                                             dispute awaiting resolution
      3B
v     150kV Drajad - Garut                   48.1          ROW negotiations complete,
                                                          awaiting materials replacement
vi    150kV Garut - Tasikmalaya              63.2         ROW negotiations ongoing with
                                                           private landowners, awaiting
                                                               materials replacement
      6
vii   150kV Perak - Ujung                    100                     Completed

         It may be noted that all transmission line works involving the uprating of voltage
         or conductors will be completed by the current loan closing date, while those
         involving rights of way and land acquisition issues are being delayed.

      ii. Substation works: With respect to component (ii) substation works, (package nos.
          1, 2A, 2B, 4, and 5) all activities are completed except for two items. Works
          completed include five (5) out of seven (7) 500/150kV interbus substations, as
          well as the entire forty two (42) of the lower voltage substations. The incomplete
          substation works include the 500/150kV inter-bus transformers at Mandirancan
          and South Surabaya where the transformers procured have been used at other
          locations to address system exigencies caused by transformer failures and load
          demand conditions.

      iii. Component (c) ERP System has been completed satisfactorily and the ERP system
           is operational and has improved PLN’s operational performance by making
           PLN’s business processes more transparent and by introducing internal controls.
           ERP has also introduced greater accuracy and timeliness of corporate information
           that has enhanced PLN’s capabilities for well informed decision making. In
           addition to strengthening PLN’s management capabilities, these initiatives have
           also resulted in cost savings for PLN.

      iv. Component (d) PLN restructuring and institutional strengthening (TA) has also
          been completed satisfactorily and in particular the supplementary study on the
          Upper Cisokan Pumped Storage Hydro Electric Power Plant.

      v. The activities under Component (e) Strengthening the capacity and assisting with
         the restructuring of PGN (TA) a state-owned gas company have been completed.

PLN has therefore made substantial progress to date on all project components with many
items having been completed or to be completed by the current closing date of December
31, 2011. An additional financing loan for the extended deployment of the ERP system
in Sumatra and Sulawesi was also approved by the Board on June 23, 2010. Therefore,
the main difficulty faced by PLN in completing all project activities by the current loan
closing date relate to the delays in constructing transmission lines.



                                              4
The physical components of the project enable the development of the 500 kV network
from east to west Java and the strengthening of a number of sub transmission lines and
substations. The project benefits accrue from the integrated nature of the system being
developed, and the loss of individual components can significantly downgrade the
expected benefits. Thus the successful completion of all the project components is
essential and is highly desired. It is also advisable for the Bank to continue its oversight
of outstanding works during the completion of the remaining activities.

3.      The proposed extension is necessary for the purpose of completing five
transmission line packages that have been delayed in execution, and the replacement of
two transformers that were used at alternate locations. PLN has provided a specific action
plan with identifiable milestones to complete all outstanding work. These milestones
have been prepared to provide reasonable assurance of adequate monitoring and follow
up so that the work can be expected to be completed by the new requested completion
date.

4.      The request for this extension was made by the Ministry of Finance for the
Republic of Indonesia in a letter dated December 20, 2011. The project was initially
restructured in June 2008 in order to remove the major sector-restructuring activities of
the project because the legal basis for successfully implementing them no longer existed,
to expand the deployment of the Enterprise Resource Planning System (ERP) to include
the entire Java-Bali power system, and to extend the closing date of the project by one
year to December 31, 2009. The loan was further extended in December 2009 by two
years through December 31, 2011 to allow for the completion of outstanding project
works. This will be the third extension of the project which had an original closing date
of December 31, 2008.




                                              5
