 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14788

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 08/21/2015

               Country: Indonesia
             Project ID: P063913                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Java-bali Power               Project Costs (US$M):                  196.67               206.89
                         Sector Restructuring
                         And Strengthening
                         Project
  L/C Number:            L4712; L7758                 Loan/Credit (US$M):                    141.00                150.77
      Sector Board:      Energy and Mining            Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers: None                           Board Approval Date :                                06/26/2003
                                                                Closing Date:           12/31/2008           12/31/2013
          Sector(s):      Power (80%); Central government administration (20%)
          Theme(s):       Infrastructure services for private sector development (50% - P); Other public sector
                          governance (50% - P)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Mamundi G. Sri-Ram        John R. Eriksson        Christopher David           IEGPS1
Aiyer                                             Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 Original
"To assist the Borrower in improving the provision of electricity and gas to consumers in the Borrower's Project
Provinces". (2003 Loan Agreement (LA 2003) Schedule 2 p. 16)

Revised
"To improve the reliability and efficiency of the power system in Java-Bali and strengthen PLN (Perusahaan Listrik
Negara; State Power Company) PGN's (Perusahaan Gas Negara; State Oil and Gas Company) management
capabilities" (2010 Loan Agreement (LA 2010) Schedule 1 p. 6).

As per normal IEG/OPCS evaluation procedures, the present review is based upon the assessment of the
achievement of the original and revised objectives as recorded in the legal documents of the project, the LAs in this
case.

 The Project development objective in the PAD (page 2) is "to improve the performance of the power sector in
Java-Bali.”.

The revised development objective of the restructured project (June 2008) is to improve the reliability and efficiency of
the power system in Java-Bali and strengthen PLN and PGN’s management capabilities, as reflected in the
amendment to the original Loan Agreement.

The Project Paper, April 2, 2010, and p.1 Loan Agreement of June 23, 2010 for Additional Financing (AF) have the
same objective as the original Loan Agreement. (The AF was provided to expand the ERP program across PLN’s
operations in other locations, specifically Sumatra and Sulawesi.)
b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 06/19/2008

 c. Components:
  The original components as approved in June 2003 were:
Part A
1. Power System Strengthening (500kV Transmission System ) -- Cost estimate at appraisal US$ 61.25 million;
actual cost at completion US$ 82.39 million). PLN planned to achieve greater utilization of existing generation
capacity in Java-Bali, improve security of supply to the cities of Cirebon and Surabaya, and de-bottleneck local
inter-connections between bulk transmission and sub-transmission levels by: (i) expanding existing 500kV
substations; and (ii) installing new 500kV circuit breakers.
2. Power System Strengthening (150kV Sub-transmission System ) -- Cost estimate at appraisal US$ 78.65 million;
actual cost at completion US$ 68.04 million. PLN planned to provide a level of security commensurate with the
existing and potential PLN and IPP geothermal capacity evacuated through the West Java 150kV sub-transmission
network near Bandung, improve security of supply to Surabaya, and relieve multiple localized overloading and voltage
problems at sub-transmission level via PLN's 150/70kV and 150/20kV transformer replacement and substation
expansion program by: (i) uprating existing 150kV sub-transmission lines; (ii) expanding existing 150kV substations;
and (iii) installing circuit breakers.
3. PLN Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System -- Cost estimate at appraisal US$ 26.00 million; AF cost
US$30.0 million; actual cost at completion US$ 52.3 million. Begin a pilot roll out of the company's Enterprise
Resource Planning (ERP) information system, focusing on core financials, materials management, human resource
management and asset management, based on Bank funded TA under an earlier project, which, in turn was to help
implement PLN's corporate and financial restructuring, envisaged under the earlier project.
4. PLN Restructuring and Institutional Strengthening (Technical Assistance ) -- Cost estimate at appraisal US$ 4.50
million; actual cost at completion US$ 1.75 million. Institutional strengthening through technical assistance for: (i)
finalizing an action plan for the business reorganization and corporate restructuring of PLN; (ii) facilitating
implementation of that Plan; and (iii) strengthening PLN's core capacity for environmental and social management.

Part B
5. PGN Restructuring and Institutional Strengthening (Technical Assistance ) -- Cost estimate at appraisal US$ 6.00
million; actual cost at completion US$ 2.43 million. Restructuring and institutional strengthening through technical
assistance for: (i) gas utilization and pricing; (ii) corporate restructuring, including preparation of an information
systems framework; (iii) gas distribution IPO; (iv) gas transmission strategic partner; and (v) capacity building and
training.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  Project Cost:
At restructuring in June 2008, the project objective was to be achieved by financing of priority investments and
technical assistance for PLN (Part A) and technical assistance for PGN (Part B). The changes were intended to:
a. Focus the project on the important investments related to improving the electricity system and strengthening the
transmission network (Components 1 & 2).
b. Expand the implementation of the successful pilot Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System, to further
strengthen PLN's information systems and management capabilities (Component 3).
c. Remove the major corporate financial and restructuring activities that are beyond the capacity of PLN and the
project given the present legal and policy environment in the power sector in Indonesia (sub-component of
Component 4).
d. Component 5 (Technical Assistance to PGN) was to remain unchanged.

Bank Financing: Additional Financing (AF) of $30 million was approved in June 2010 to expand the ERP program
across PLN operations in other locations (Sumatra and Sulawesi), consistent with the 2009-2012 CPS, Core
Engagement 2, ‘to support the development of infrastructure by helping strengthen the capacity and accountability of
institutions to deliver better outcomes’. The final Bank loan financing for the project, $ 150.77 million, included the
Front-end fee of $ 1.41 million, leaving $ 149.36 million of net financing for project expenditures.
An amount of $ 3.57 million of the original loan, and $ 11.3 million of the $ 30 million Additional Financing Loan
(approved on June 23, 2010) were cancelled, because of delays of 3 to 4 years in completion of some of the power
generation plants whose power was to be transmitted on the new lines.
Borrower Contribution : At appraisal the borrower contribution was expected to be $ 70.64 million equivalent, while the
estimate at completion was 30% higher, at $ 91.55 million equivalent. This includes interest during construction of
$28.5 million and commitment charges of $4.60 million paid to the Bank.
Dates: The loan was approved on June 26, 2003, but only became effective a year later on July 7, 2004. The project
was restructured (with a revised PDO) on 06/19/2008, and the closing date was extended to 12/31/2009. A second
restructuring took place on 12/22/2009 to permit completion of two of the transmission lines whose execution was
delayed, with an extension in the closing date by two years to end December 2011. The final closing date was
12/31/2013.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Original Objective s: Substantial
The objectives (per the Loan Agreement) to improve the provision of electricity in the provinces of Java and Bali were
consistent with Government and Bank strategy. The project was consistent with the new Indonesian government's
power sector reforms underpinned by the September 23, 2002 Electricity Law which paved the way for a competitive
power market in the Java Bali region over the medium term. The project objectives were also consistent with the goal
stated in the July 25, 2002 CAS Progress Report, on the 2001-2003 CAS, of sustaining economic recovery and broad
based growth by addressing infrastructure bottlenecks in power, and restructuring sector entities.
Revised Objective: Substantial
The revised objectives were “to improve the reliability and efficiency of the power system in Java-Bali and strengthen
PLN and PGN’s management capabilities.”
The simplified objectives retained the two central elements of system performance and reliability, and institutional
capacity. The revisions were responsive to then prevailing government development strategy and priorities.
The PDO and indicators continue to remain relevant to the country's needs and priorities at exit in 2013, as evidenced
by the first and second Power Transmission Development Projects approved in July 2010, and July 2013
respectively.


 b. Relevance of Design:
Original Objectives: Modest
The planned activities and institutional strengthening focus were consistent with the stated objectives. The original
objectives were to be achieved through financing of priority investments and technical assistance to PLN, along with
technical assistance to PGN. Strengthening of the system by the increase in dispatch capacity in 500kv lines and 150
kv transmission lines would enable an increased amount of generated power to be evacuated for delivery to
customers, thereby increasing provision of electricity to the provinces. Assistance to PGN to restructure its operations
was expected to prepare the basis for a new private strategic partner to be mobilized. The results framework linking
the 500 kv and 150 KV lines to operations, and outcomes of improved power sector performance and reliability were
logically linked. However, a factor that was not identified at preparation is the difficulty of ‘uprating’ (i.e., adding
catenary or cable) existing live lines because this required advanced technology. That eventually rendered this
element of the design impractical, and led to the need for installation of new parallel cables to achieve the intended
increase in capacity. The resulting delay cascaded throughout project implementation.
Revised Objective: High
When the objectives were revised and simplified in 2008, the focus was sharpened further. The emphasis was on
components related to: (i) improving the electricity system and strengthening the transmission system; and (ii)
expansion of the ERP to strengthen PLN’s information systems and management capability, and thereby, the
transparency of its financial situation and its accountability. The PGN component was left unchanged. The outcome
indicators which reflected the improvement in the Java-Bali power network were retained since work was to continue
on the physical components to strengthen the network. However, some indicators were refined to suit the revised
objectives. The measures set for achievement of outcomes were made more clear, namely: dispatch capability of
generation units in East Java, substation loadings in the 500kv and 150 kv systems aimed at increasing reliability;
voltages recorded, which would indicate higher capacity utilization; and PLN’s rate of return, These outcomes had
baselines recorded earlier in 2002. These indicators were appropriate for measuring achievement of outcomes. The
causal chain between funded items and outcomes were clear. Also, when the Additional Financing was approved in
2010, the main change was removal of the corporate restructuring component and related indicators, as requested
earlier by the Government. Taken together these changes made the design more compatible with the revised
objectives.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  Original Objectives : Modest
The PDO was “to assist the Borrower in improving the provision of electricity and gas to consumers in the Borrower’s
Project Provinces”..
Outputs at completion
    Implementation progress targets leading to commissioning of 500kV substation expansion--originally targeted for
     completion by 12/31/2008 were actually completed by 12/31/2013. The cause of the delay was the improper
     choice of ‘uprating’ (i.e., adding of catenary or cables) to existing live transmission cables which proved
     impossible without shutting down the lines. That, in turn, would have deprived electric supply to many end users,
     resulting in a loss of revenues to PLN. So, it was decided to install new parallel lines for the additional capacity,
     for which new land had to be acquired, resulting in this five year delay. (This problem cascaded through the rest
     of the implementation period.)
    Implementation progress targets leading to commissioning of 150kV substation expansion and uprated
     lines--originally targeted for 12/31/2008. Two of the seven lines were commissioned by 12/31/2013, while five
     lines were delayed due to delays in agreeing on compensation for land acquisition under a new law. The new
     land was required because of the reason explained in the earlier bullet on 500kV substations.
    ERP roll-out throughout the Java-Bali electric power network after initial pilot roll-out--the ERP pilot in Java-Bali
     was completed by October 2008, and the ERP system-wide roll-out was completed by January 2009—target
     dates were not specified. This completion is confirmed in the ISRs of 4/15/2009, and 8/8/2009. The ERP also led
     to unanticipated savings as it led to financial information being transparent and up to date, and minimized
     ‘accounting errors’.
    Progress on PLN TA and institutional strengthening to be completed by 12/31/2008--the TA (comprising PLN’s
     corporate and financial restructuring including unbundling PLN’s functions, environmental capacity building, and
     a feasibility study of a pumped storage plant in Upper Cisokan) was completed in June 2007.
    Progress on PGN TA and study for PGN for completion by 12/31/2008--the Gas Pricing study and the TA to
     prepare PGN for restructuring, and for an IPO to select a strategic partner were completed on 11/14/2008.
    PLN to issue reconciled financial statements for Java-Bali, Sumatra and Sulawesi systems within 45 days upon
     completion of the fiscal year. They were ready within 90 days when performed manually, by 06/19/2008, and
     within 45 days by 12/31/2008 since the ERP was fully deployed in the Java-Bali system--this meant much
     increased revenue collection for PLN, thereby improving its ability to provide services required of the company in
     a reliable manner, i.e., without power outages.

Outcomes at completion
The first one, restructuring of PLN, was rendered illegal by the annulment of the 2002 Electricity Law as explained in
Section 3 (a) above, leading to the need to restructure the project. The second outcome was to lay the groundwork for
restructuring of PGN and selection of a strategic partner.
   Increased dispatch capability of generation units in East Java, whereby an additional 2000MW of dispatch
     capability was to be achieved by 12/31/ 2008--happened five years later, for reasons explained above. In 2013,
     2322 MW were recorded as power sold; at appraisal long-term demand growth was projected to grow at 5% after
     2009, whereas by 2013 it was projected at 8% (ICR, p. 55). In any event, there was an increase in the provision
     of electricity to meet increased demand.
   Reduced substation loadings at key Java-Bali 500kV and 150kV substations. They were to have loadings at 50%
     to 60% of capacity by 12/31/2008--the ICR says these reductions took five years longer to achieve. (according to
     the ISRs they were achieved by 2010). The closer the loadings are to 100%, the greater the likelihood of an
     overload and power outage, which would risk service reliability.
   Improved capacity utilization in terms of voltages at key 150kV substations in southeastern Java. Six of the seven
     150kV substations were operating at 90% of capacity or at 135kV in 2002, and were to have reached 100% of
     capacity by 12/31/2008--the target was reached five years later in 2013.

Revised Objective: Substantial
Improve the reliability and efficiency of the power system in Java-Bali and strengthen PLN and PGN's management
capabilities’.
The revised output indicators and their achievement are shown below.
   Implementation progress targets towards commissioning of 500kV substation expansion--targeted for completion
    by 12/31/2013. All substations were completed and commissioned by the target date,
    thus contributing to improving the reliability and efficiency of the power network.
   Implementation progress targets towards commissioning of expanded 150kV substations and uprated lines--
    targeted for 12/31/2013. Two of the seven lines were commissioned by 12/31/2013, while five lines were delayed
    due to discussions on land acquisition under a new law on land acquisition. (The law permits claims of up to 10%
    of tax value of conservation land, but at the demand of some civil society elements, claims exceeded this level.
    ICR, pp. 10, 28-29, 32.) These were still ongoing at the closing date of 12/31/2013. In effect, this delay means a
    delay in improving the reliability and efficiency of the network by a few years. (PLN confirmed to the Bank in 2013
    that they have budgeted adequate funds in 2014 and 2015 and plan to complete the five lines within 12 months of
    the resolution of the outstanding issues with their own funds. A new law enacted in 2012 on land settlement
    issues, along with a Ministerial regulation should help address the issues. Although not required to do so, PLN
    management agreed to continue to submit quarterly progress reports to the Bank on the progress towards
    completion of the lines. The Bank also will continue to monitor progress during supervision of other ongoing
     projects in the sector.)
    Following the ERP roll-out in the entire Java-Bali system the extended deployment of the ERP system in Sumatra
     and Sulawesi was to follow. The ERP for Java-Bali was completed in October 2008, as noted in the ISRs of
     4/15/2009. The ERP for the expanded system including Sumatra and Sulawesi was completed on time and below
     budget by 12/31/2013. As explained earlier, the ERP enabled financial information to be obtained across PLN in
     a timely manner and with transparency, both of which have led to improved revenue collection.
    Supplemental Study on Upper Cisokan Pumped Storage Project to increase peak power generation capacity.
     After the TA was completed it became a critical input in the preparation of the Upper Cisokan PSP project
     approved May 26, 2011 and now under implementation. By increasing peak power generation capacity, the
     power system would contain some extra power available to meet peak loads, and thereby avoid load shedding or
     power outages in some parts of the network. This would contribute to improving reliability.
    PLN to issue reconciled financial statements for the Java-Bali, Sumatra and Sulawesi systems within 45 days of
     completion of the fiscal year. Statements were issued within 45 days of the end of PLN's fiscal year. Furthermore,
     financial data was transparent in the institution as a result of the IT systems being used.

The key performance or outcome indicators of the restructured project were retained from the original, i.e., as in the
bullets above, confirming that the design was more consistent with the revised objectives than with the original ones.
  Increased dispatch capability of generation units in East Java. An additional 2322 MW of dispatch capability was
     to be reached by 12/31/2013. The target of 2000 MW by 12/31/2013 was exceeded, and the dispatch capability
     for generation units in East Java was increased. The additional power was all sold.
  Reduced substation loadings at key Java-Bali 500kV and 150kV substations. The target was for the majority of
     substations to have an average loading of capacity of 50% to 60% by 12/31/2013. Due to demand growth being
     higher than originally anticipated, substation loadings were on average 68.5%, or larger than the original target
     value. But according to information verified during the ICR mission of September/October 2013 the Java-Bali
     system retained appropriate reliability levels.
  Improved voltages at key 150kV substations in southeastern Java. Compared with a baseline of 90% of capacity
     in 2002, the target was for the majority to be operating at 100% capacity by 12/31/2013. This target was
     reached.
  The last indicator was "Improvements in PLN's rate of return". The government had decided--for social and other
     reasons--that it could not charge the full cost of electricity to consumers. It was required by Law to supplement
     tariff revenues through the Public Service Obligation (PSO) subsidy. Therefore the government, PLN and the
     World Bank agreed to use the debt service coverage ratio as a proxy for measuring liquidity. As a step towards
     achieving a gradually improving debt service coverage ratio each year, an estimated 10% tariff increase took full
     effect in 2011, and a further gradual increase of 3% per quarter from January 2013 was put in place for five
     years, i.e., until it would reach 15%. This would gradually also reduce the subsidies required.
  As an unanticipated benefit, the computerization implemented under ERP significantly improved the efficiency of
     PLN's operations leading to an annual operating cost savings of over $9 million.


 5. Efficiency:
  Substantial
Implementation began more slowly than anticipated at approval. The original economic analysis assumed an
East-West transfer gain of $27.3 million in avoided costs in 2005 and 2006, after which the 500kV backbone to the
south would be operational and the East-West transfer would stop. However, since the project only became effective
in July 2004, these benefits accrued more slowly.. The PAD estimate of the EIRR, 14.6%,was based on
over-optimistic assumptions on completion time and start of benefits.
The original project was based on ‘uprating’ of cables (i.e., adding new cable or catenary to existing live cables),
which was not possible, it was decided to install new parallel lines . The bidding process for these parallel cables was
highly competitive, with more bidders than expected, leading to lower costs than the estimates for ‘uprating’. Whereas
the original project was based on peak demand growth of 9% in 2009, and dropping to 5% over the longer term, long
term demand growth which was forecast at 8% in 2008 turned out to be even higher. (This led to the need for a new
10,000 MW generation “crash program”).

The EIRR of the 500kV and 150kV transmission lines, which account for 73% of total project costs was estimated at
11.88% while the EIRR of the ERP system, which accounts for 24.3% of project costs, is estimated at 14.95%. Thus
on a cost-weighted basis the EIRR for the project is estimated at 12.42% as compared with an assumed opportunity
cost of capital of 10%.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                    Point Value                 Coverage/Scope*
    Appraisal                        Yes                                      14.6%                                    100%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                     12.42%                                    97.3%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The relevance of the original objective is rated Substantial, the relevance of the original design is rated Modest, the
efficacy of the original objective is rated Modest and efficiency is rated Substantial. Thus, Outcome under the original
objective is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The relevance of the revised objective is rated Substantial, the relevance
of the revised design is rated Substantial, the efficacy of the revised objective is rated Substantial and efficiency is
rated Substantial. Thus, Outcome under the revised objective is rated Satisfactory. As of June 2008 when the
objectives were revised the disbursed amount was some $42 million, or 22.6% of the $185.7 million finally disbursed.
The two outcome ratings are combined using the respective disbursement shares as weights (0.226x3 plus 0.774x5 =
4.54), which results in a combined Outcome rating of 5 or Satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   Government Ownership/Commitment: As mentioned earlier, five of the seven transmission lines were at different
stages of completion due to right of way issues whereby claims made by conservation land owners far exceeded the
maximum permitted under law—attributed to the influence of some civil society groups. As of the closing date PLN had
agreed to continue to provide the Bank with quarterly progress reports on these lines, and that the Bank could
continue to review progress through supervision missions for other projects in Indonesia. The TTL confirmed that the
last quarterly progress report received by the Bank was for September 2014, and that the transmission lines were
70-90% complete up to the edge of the forest-protected lands. Discussions between relevant departments were
underway on optimal paths for the rest of the length to limit damage to protected lands, and according to the TTL
these were expected to be decided by end 2014.

Institutional Support: A related risk is that PLN will not continue to supervise and maintain the ERP system. This is
mitigated by the understanding reached that the project management for the ERP system will be strengthened and
additional training provided through a train the trainers program being funded by PLN. According to consultants
Accenture, whom Bank staff met in September 2014, this was underway.
Thus, the risk to the development outcome rating is considered Moderate.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The task team was highly experienced and comprised very senior staff, including the Acting Sector Director as
TTL, and a number of specialists covering all relevant areas. The PAD is thorough--the strategic and sector
context and project rationale were sound at the outset, with rigorous economic and financial analyses. Institutional
issues were carefully considered.
The original project design called for ‘uprating’ of existing transmission lines (i.e., adding catenary or cables to live
lines), but around 2005 it was found that uprating would require having to shut the line down for a protracted
period leaving communities they served without power, besides leading to a sizeable loss of revenue for PLN of
some $60 million equivalent. Eventually parallel lines were decided upon, causing delays and requiring three
closing date extensions. The rationale for the original decision is not clear, but it appears to have been due to the
pressure to have the operation approved before end June 2003, as there had been no Bank lending to Indonesia
for some three years. Also, there were several changes underway at the management and staff levels during
preparation, which could have affected decisions. The timetable called for the entire physical project to be
procured, launched, constructed, installed, and tested in 18 months from approval on June 26, 2003. In fact,
effectiveness took until July 7, 2004; the PAD projected cumulative disbursements of $77.55 million by FY 2005
(i.e., June 30, 2005), while actual disbursements were 41.75 million by May 2008.

The quality of preparation is satisfactory in other respects-- technical, financial and economic, institutional,
environmental, social, and safeguard aspects. This was attributed to experienced team leadership.
   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Implementation progress was well monitored with diligent pursuit of actions under the control of the Bank and
counterpart teams. Project supervision was effective with Bank staff working closely and responsively with the
client. Besides ensuring fiduciary and financial management integrity the team quickly identified problems as they
arose; recommended and worked with the borrower to explore and process changes in project concept and design
as circumstances changed. Thus, for example, the team worked with PLN on the decision to install parallel lines
when the “uprating” proved no longer feasible. It also recommended a wider bidding process for the parallel lines,
which led to their completion at a lower cost than estimated for “uprating”. Also, when the 2002 Law was annulled
in 2004, and the Government decided to drop affected portions in 2006, the Bank team worked proactively to
proceed with simplified objectives better suited to the design, and helped refine the outcome measures consistent
with the design. , In this manner the Bank teams identified key emerging risks to sustainability and recommended
risk mitigation and management approaches to the borrower. On sustainability, for example, at project completion,
since some of the transmission lines were still under construction, the Bank team obtained an assurance from
PLN that it had budgeted adequate funds in 2014 and 2015 for this work to continue, and to submit quarterly
progress reports to the Bank on progress. The Bank in turn, agreed to supervise the construction progress as part
of supervision of other projects in the sector. In recognition of the delay, the PDO and IP were rated Moderately
Satisfactory in the ISRs of March 2012, and October 2013, while PDO is rated Moderately Satisfactory and IP is
rated Moderately Unsatisfactory in the March 2013 ISR.
The Bank team prepared 18 supervision reports every year during ten years, to account for the use of Bank
resources, report on M&E findings, and draw lessons to improve future project design, sector and country strategy
and policies. They are a useful source of information including on completion of project outputs.
Besides procurement training at the early stages of the project, the Bank team helped arrange for several training
sessions over the duration of the project to help familiarize PLN staff with Bank procedures. Most of the original
PLN staff that had worked on earlier Bank financed projects were disbanded as part of the decentralization in
2003, leaving PLN with few staff that had managed Bank financed procurement. Therefore, the Bank also had to
provide enhanced implementation support at each stage of the procurement process.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Directorate General of Electricity and Energy Utilization (DGEEU), representing the Government was
cooperative and supportive throughout project implementation and allocated more adequate counterpart funds,
eventually amounting to $91.55 million, or 30% above the $70 million proposed at appraisal. But it was reluctant to
exert administrative and legal authority on two key issues that delayed the completion of the transmission lines.
One was the inordinately high compensation claims by the landowners far in excess of those permitted under the
prior law, due to pressure from certain civil society elements. (In earlier times when compensation in excess of the
law was paid, the officials were sanctioned by the legal authorities, hence the approach to go by the books.) The
other was the delays in the lack of issuance of permits for traversing conservation forests. Although both of these
issues were largely under government control, there was a lack of urgency in addressing them. Due to impending
elections, the Government did not wish to pursue the same top down approaches adopted by the earlier
administration (under President Suharto).

   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    On the whole PLN was cooperative, responsive and responsible during the implementation period. In
December 2004, the 2002 Electricity Law which was the legal basis for undertaking corporate restructuring of PLN
was annulled by a Constitutional Court in response to PLN's labor unions. After exploring alternative options at the
suggestion of the Bank with the help of international consultants, PLN asked the Bank in November 2006 for a
moratorium on restructuring activities. The lack of continuity due to staff transfers and rotations during the 2003
decentralization led to unfamiliarity with Bank procurement systems seen in the initial international competitive
bidding activities.. Delays in procurement were highlighted in a few supervision reports, resulting from staff failing
to publish a procurement notice in the United Nations Development Business as required, and not seeking the
Bank's No Objection to an amendment to a contract that was originally to be Bank financed. The contractor had
demobilized its staff, and then had to remobilize after the No Objection was issued. This led to an increase in the
contract price by more than 15%. The excess charge was paid by PLN.
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and Project Management Unit (PMU) performed well in conducting the
contracting processes, particularly in expanding the number of bidders for the parallel transmission lines (at the
Bank’s suggestion) which, in turn, led to costs below appraisal estimates for “uprating.” The location of the PIU in
the operations group instead of the construction group where they rightly belonged, affected some contracts which
experienced delays of up to two years due to weaknesses in contract management. This was corrected only when
the delay persisted. Also, there were several payment delays in processing contractor invoices.
PLN indicated to the ICR mission an awareness of the need for a diagnostic exercise in the near future to identify
the areas of weakness and of bottlenecks in procurement and contract management.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The original objectives were clearly specified, as were the objectives as revised in 2008. The key performance
indicators at both stages reflected these objectives. The indicators were measurable in terms of numbers, timing and
location. The proposed data collection methods and analyses followed well known practice in the power sector, with a
baseline set for 2002, the year prior to project approval. As for institutional roles, the main tasks associated with
monitoring and reporting during implementation were to be carried out by PLN, while responsibility for coordination
among the parties was with the PIU, which was to prepare a Master Implementation Schedule. This Schedule would
comprise several modules ranging from site preparation to testing and commissioning. PLN was to prepare detailed
schedules for site survey and preparation, and to agree with each contractor/supplier on a schedule for their
activities/responsibilities. These arrangements would provide a continual assessment of predicted completion dates
for outputs, and of areas of slippage to enable remedial action needed. Outcome/impact indicators were reflected in
the PAD along with outputs.

It might have been useful to have had an additional outcome indicator which would have compared power outages in
the baseline year of 2002, and tracked annually to the project completion period, in terms of number of times power
had to be cut or delivery voltages dropped, and number of customers affected. This would have been an explicit
quantitative indicator of reliability and quality of service delivery.


 b. M&E Implementation:
   The planned baseline data for 2002 were measured and recorded. The indicators enumerated in the PAD, e.g.,
increased dispatch capability of generation units, reduced substation loadings at 500kV and 150kV substations,
improved voltages at 150kV substations, were regularly measured and reported upon in Quarterly Progress Reports
(QPR) with all details. In 2008, when the objectives were revised and simplified, some indicators were refined to make
the design more suited to the revised objectives. Bank supervision missions worked with PLN and PIU to ensure that
data was of reliable quality. The PIU and PLN continued to monitor data and send them to the Bank on a quarterly
basis.

c. M&E Utilization:
   The M&E arrangements measured both outputs and outcomes. The QPRs served not only as a
monitoring tool but also to assist PLN in its own evaluation of progress. A further verification of the
monitoring tools was the ISRs prepared each year, which also evaluated the effectiveness of the M&E
arrangements. The slow pace of implementation and the inability to use the original design of “uprating” of
cables led to the revision in objectives and refinement of some indicators. The ISR ratings between March
2005 and November 2008 for PDO and IP reflected this. M&E was used to assess progress at output
level in detail and for implementation decisions, besides outcomes.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial
11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
Environment and Social.
At entry the project was rated Category B. An Environmental and Social Assessment and Management Plan (EMP)
was prepared by PLN in which the World Bank Group's safeguards policies on social and environmental issues were
fully addressed according to the ICR. The draft EMP was discussed at stakeholder consultation meetings in
accordance with the assigned Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment).

OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment and OP/BP 4.12 Involuntary Settlement were triggered by the project.
However, as no other new transmission lines were included in the original plan, the EMP indicated that the adverse
environmental and social impacts of the planned physical sub components would be minor and easily manageable—
this issue was discussed and agreed upon with the environment team at the Bank’s Jakarta office. (Only one
component, the 5 km long Perak-Ujung line, involved new transmission towers which, however, would be on existing
rights of way (ROW)). The EMP approved of Indonesia's environmental impact assessment documentation. It also
approved of the institutional responsibilities for monitoring and enforcing implementation of their recommendations,
the requirements for training programs and other arrangements for institutional strengthening.

Specific policies and procedures applicable to land acquisition and compensation were also recorded in a Land
Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework (LARPF). Prior to appraisal, the EMP and LARPF were publicly
disclosed at PLN's Head Office in Jakarta and at the Bank InfoShop. The PLN policy addresses public participation,
land acquisition, compensation and rehabilitation of property, and mitigation measures. The policy was reviewed and
approved by the World Bank before it was issued as a law by the government in 2012.

Since OP/BP 4.01 and 4.12 were already triggered, the decision to change to parallel lines in 2005 did not result in
any new triggers. The Bank team discussed with PLN about how to resolve the safeguards issues and prepared the
instruments needed through workshops, leading to the preparation of Environmental Management Monitoring
Procedures that were completed in April 2008, after the contracts for construction of the transmission lines were
signed in March 2006.
A Project Environmental Team constituted by PLN was also set up to work within with the PIU.


 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement.
Since the PGN portion is small, the procurement capacity assessment focused largely on PLN, although a brief
assessment of PGN is also included in the Procurement Capacity Assessment Report, carried out in line with the
Bank's requirements.
As part of a decentralization of PLN in 2000, the central procurement unit that had been responsible for procurement
under Bank financed projects was abolished and most of the experienced staff transferred to other positions. The
decentralized Project Units were familiar with Indonesia's procurement regulations, but at the start of the project there
was a lack of direct experience with international competitive bidding (ICB). However, with a number of projects under
construction, most branch offices acquired substantial procurement experience. Nonetheless, to mitigate risks
associated with inexperience in project implementation, several actions were taken: (a) a project management unit
(PMU) was set up at PLN's head office, a Project Office was established, and PIUs were created at project locations;
(b) a Procurement Committee was set up with 9-11 members from the Project Unit and PLN's Head Office, including
three with prior experience with ICB, and one with extensive experience with Bank financed procurement; (c) a
procurement training program was delivered in April 2003 prior to loan approval, and subsequent training sessions
were held thereafter.
Procurement of all goods and consultant services were completed within the allocated resources, and in compliance
with Bank and project specific requirements and policies.
Financial Management.
The project's financial management system-- budgeting, internal controls,, financial reporting and auditing--was
acceptable to the Bank. All audit reports were submitted--with unqualified opinions-- to the Bank on a timely basis, and
were published on PLN's website. Improvements in the accounting of loan transactions occurred in the final year, with
no prolonged delays encountered during project implementation. The factors that contributed to the prior delays in
payments included delays in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement budget approval; incomplete documentation by vendors;
delays in submission from the project office to PLN headquarters; delays in completion of documentation to meet
Government requirements; and delays in document verification at the Ministry of Finance. These delays were
systemic in PLN and were partly due to extra care to ensure that all documents were complete in every respect, given
prior political history.

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The ERP component has started to yield savings of over $ 9 million pa to PLN from improved efficiencies and other
savings.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                                ICR                  IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                         Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Satisfactory
                               Satisfactory
           Risk to Development Moderate                     Moderate
                      Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately
                                Satisfactory                Satisfactory
        Borrower Performance : Moderately                   Moderately
                                Satisfactory                Satisfactory
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
   The following lessons are selected from the ICR:
i. Ensuring quality at entry is far more important than speedy commitment , because inadequate preparation
ultimately delays project benefits . When a project is processed at great speed for approval (for whatever reason,
such as lack of Bank lending for several years), this may lead to technical choices (such as “uprating” of cables in a
power transmission project), which eventually turn out to be not feasible, thus delaying the project by years.
ii. The safeguards issues for power transmission projects need close attention during preparation . This is
particularly true for land acquisition. If this issue is not addressed during preparation, significant delays are likely at
a later stage.
iii. The success of the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system, as implemented in the Java -Bali Power
Sector Restructuring Project in Indonesia , led to significant cost savings and offers important lessons for sector
practitioners . The factors that contributed to installation of the ERP system within the deadline and cost envisaged
at the outset, are worth replicating. These include transparency of financial and management information systems,
particularly significant in countries where public sector governance is an issue.

14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

This ICR is a sound analytical document. Using factual evidence and logic, it draws lessons based on the written
documents and reported events. The ICR is results driven and consistent both with OPCS guidelines and within itself.
The written presentation is of good quality.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
