Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3319-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 11, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.0      =  P 8.10
P 1.00      =  US$0.123
P 1 million = US$123,457
P 1 billion =  US$123 million
ABBREVIATIONS
BAAD          -  Branches and Agencies Department (of DBP)
BOI           -  Board of Investments
BSMI          -  Bureau of Small and Medium Industries (of MTI)
GB            -  Central Bank of the Philippines
DBP           -  Development Bank of the Philippines
DDRB          -  Department of Development and Rural Banks (of DBP)
IGLF          -  Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (of CB)
KKK           -  Kilusang Kabuhayan at Kaunlaran (National Livelihood Program)
MTI           - Ministry of Trade and Industry
NACIDA        -  National Cottage Industries Development Authority
PDBs          -  Private Development Banks
SAL           -  Structural Adjustment Loan
SBAC/MASICAP  -  Small Business Advisory Centers/Medium and Small Industries
Coordinated Action Program
SMI           -  Small and Medium Industries (including cottage industries)
SMILE         -  Small and Medium Industries Lending Department (of DBP)
t
FISCAL YEAR
Government:  January 1 to December 31
DBP:         January 1 to December 31
IGLF:        January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Republic of the Philippines
14           Beneficiaries:            The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP),
the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF) and
the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI).
Amount:                  $132.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                   Repayable over 20 years, including five years of
grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum. The loan
includes a capitalized front-end fee of $1,950,739.
Relending Terms:         The equivalent in pesos of $48.0 million of the loan
proceeds would be onlent by the Government to DBP on
terms and conditions similar to the proposed Bank
loan, of which $27.0 million would be for DBP's
direct small and medium industry lending and $21.0
million for relending to private development banks
(PDBs). The equivalent of $63.0 million would be
made available to IGLF, essentially on the same terms
and conditions as the proposed Bank loan. An
unallocated portion equivalent to 10% (i.e. about
$12.0 million) of the credit component of the loan
would initially be held back and allocated later to
those financial institutions making the most
effective use of Bank funds. $7.0 million of the
loan proceeds would be allocated by the Government
to the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) to
finance the technical assistance component. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on
the entire Bank loan.  DBP and IGLF would pay the
standard 0.75% commitment fee and the front-end fee
of 1.5% on their portions. The end-user rates under
*                                     the project (18% p.a. and 21% p.a.) are in line with
market rates and are substantially positive in real
terms given projected (under 10%) rates of inflation
for the life of the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Projec. Description:       The credit component of the proDosed project would
assist the Government in financing cottage,
small- and medium-scale industries (SMI) and
developing the key financing institutions servicing
the sector while the technical assistance component
would help to alleviate key constraints facing
priority SMI subsectors. The credit component of
the project would support financially and economi-
cally viable SMI enterprises.  The technical
assistance component would be used to: (a) expand
the network and scope of the Small Business
Advisory Centers/Medium and Small Industries
Coordinated Action Program (SBAC/MASICAP); (b) esta-
blish a fund to provide SBAC/MASICAP with the
necessary resources to implement pilot projects in
priority subsectors; and (c) finance studies on
major issues relevant to the development of the SalI
sector.
The project faces moderate risks. With respect to
the credit component, thte relatively high end-user
interest rates could result in a lower demand than
currently estimated. However, the appropriateness
of interest rates would continue to be reviewed.
In the case of DBP, institutional problems asso-
ciated with its direct S'MI lending would be
addressed through a mutually agreed Action Program.
With regard to the techrLical assistance component,
SBAC/MASICAP might be required to promote other SMI
technical assistance programs wlhich would limit
their ability to fulfill their responsibilities
under the project.  Thle Government has, however,
agreed to provide SBAC/MASICAP with the necessary
staff and budgetary resources to carry out its work
program effectively under the project.



- iii -
Estimated Cost./a                                       Local   Foreign    Total
…- ($ million)
Credit component                     147.3      126.0    273.3
Technical assistance                   4.7        4.0      8.7
Total project cost                   152.0      130.0    282.0
Front-end fee on Bank loan             -          2.0      2.0
Total Financing Required             152.0      132.0    284.0
Financing Plan:
Bank loan (including
front-end fee)                       -       132.0 /b 132.0
Government and financing
institutions                        82.2       -        82.2
End-users                             69.8        -       69.8
Total                              152.0     132.0    284.0
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY                         FY83  FY84  FY85   FY86   FY87
…-  ($ million ) -
Annual                         12.8  31.2  43.0   38.5    6.5
Cumulative                     12.8  44.0  87.0  125.5  132.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 3838-PH, dated May 6, 1982.
/a Excluding duties and taxes.
/b Under the loan, disbursements would be made against some elements of the
local currency cost of the technical assistance component.



i



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $132.0 million to
help finance a third small and medium industries development project. The
loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 11.6% per annum.  The equivalent in pesos of $48.0 million of the loan
proceeds would be onlent by the Government to the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP), essentially on the same terms and conditions as the
proposed Bank loan, of which $27.0 million would be for DBP's direct small and
medium industry lending (SMILE) and $21.0 million for relending to private
development banks (PDBs). The equivalent of $63.0 million would be made
available to the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF) on terms and
conditions similar to the proposed Bank loan. An amount of $12.0 million
would initially be held back and allocated later to those institutions making
the most effective use of Bank funds.  $7.0 million of the loan proceeds would
be passed on by the Government to the Ministry of Trade and Industry as a
budgetary allocation to finance the technical assistance component. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on the entire Bank loan. DBP
and IGLF would pay the standard 0.75% commitment fee on the undisbursed
balance of the onlent amounts and the front-end fee of 1.5% on their portions
of the loan. End-user rates for DBP-SMILE, PDBs and IGLF subloans would vary
between 18% p.a. and 21% p.a. which are in line with market rates and are
substantially positive in real terms given projected rates of inflation (under
10%) for the life of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic report, entitled "The Philippines:  Domestic and
External Resources for Development" (No. 2674-PH), was distributed to the
Executive Directors under SecM79-822, dated November 16, 1979. An industrial
sector report, entitled "Industrial Development Strategy and Policy in the
Philippines" (No. 2513-PH) was distributed on the same date. A special
report, "Aspects of Poverty in the Philippines: A Review and Assessment"
(No. 2984-PH), was distributed to the Executive Directors on December 1, 1980
under SecM80-919. An economic mission visited the Philippines in September
1981 and is now preparing its report./2 Country data are given in Annex 1.
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Textile Sector Restructuring Project which was
approved by the Executive Directors on April 20, 1982.
/2 Expected to be distributed to the Executive Directors in May, 1982.



-2-
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, economic performance improved considerably,
raising the trend GNP growth rate to 6% at the end ofE the decade. The ratio
of fixed investment to GNP rose from 16% to 25% during this period. Half of
this increase was in the public sector; the ratio of public fixed investment
to GNP rose from 1.5% to 6.5% during the decade, refLecting substantially
expanded revenues and improved implementation capacity. Export growth was
accelerated, particularly in nontraditional manufactures, while growth in
imports of oil and consumer goods was restrained. Overall, expansion in
agricultural production was quite rapid, and rice def-icits were eliminated in
the second half of the decade. Population growth slowed in the 1970s. How-
ever, the economy still has a number of structural problems. Most import-
antly, the efficiency of investment has been low, particularly in manufac-
turing industry producing for the domestic market; industrial employment has
not expanded rapidly enough; and poverty is still widespread.
4.         The economy's structural problems are reflected in its balance of
payments. Improvements achieved in the early 1970s were more than offset by a
sharp deterioration of the Philippines- terms of trade since 1975, stemming
from the oil price increases, accelerated international inflation, and
depressed prices for major export commodities. Consequently, the Philippines
has had to rely heavily on foreign borrowings to finance the imports needed to
maintain growth and investment levels. To hold the external deficit at a
sustainable level in the coming years, additional structural adjustments in
the balance of payments will have to be achieved, primarily through reduced
dependence on imported oil, increased efficiency of investment, and improved
performance of the industrial sector.
Development Strategy
5.         The Government's Development Plan for 1978--82 has as objectives the
rapid expansion of productive employment; improvements in economic, social and
regional equity; and provision for the basic needs of the population. The
agricultural strategy emphasizes food production, crcip diversification, and
stronger linkages with processing industries. The industrial strategy calls
for promotion of export industries, development of small- and medium-scale
industries, regional dispersion of industrial growth, increased efficiency of
investment, and selected large-scale projects. The P'lan includes social
development targets in education, housing, health, and family planning. In
6.         The Development Plan elaborates the policy directions pursued by
the Government in recent years and is broadly in line with the Bank'
assessment of the country-s development priorities. In view of changes in
the international economy, the Government has, in 1980, adjusted the Plan
and revised the growth targets downwards. A Development Plan for 1983-87
is now under preparation.



-3
Macro Issues for the 1980s
7.        As noted above, the Philippines faces several fundamental long-
standing development problems which will need increased attention during the
1980s. The four most important of these are reduction of population growth,
poverty alleviation, employment generation, and increased efficiency of
investment.
8.        Population Growth.  The Philippines has achieved an impressive
reduction in population growth from 3% in 1970 to about 2.4% in 1980./1
Nevertheless, rapid population growth is still straining available land
resources, aggravating already serious employment and poverty problems, and
burdening the public budget with a high growth in demand for basic public
services. Further reduction of population growth is, therefore, vital for the
countrys development.  The Philippines has an active family planning program
which has expanded rapidly during the 1970s. However, participation in the
family planning program is still low by East Asian standards, and the number
of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced the
increasingly difficult problem of extending into rural areas.
9.        Poverty Alleviation.  Despite satisfactory economic growth during
the 1970s, the incidence of poverty remains high at 40-45%. Income distri-
bution continues to be very skewed, and a small elite is conspicuously
wealthy. Regional disparities remain pronounced, with the incidence of
poverty reaching 60-70% in the least developed regions. Large numbers of
people, especially in the rural areas, which account for about 80% of the
poor, still suffer from malnutrition and lack safe water, basic education and
health facilities. An increasingly unfavorable man/land ratio, the resulting
expansion of cultivation into marginal lands, limited employment opportunities
in the industrial sector, and the sharp deterioration in the external terms of
trade have put downward pressure on real incomes. Although the Government
instituted several programs during the 1970s that should directly improve the
lives of the poor, most of these were implemented on a large scale only toward
the end of the decade and will require several years to achieve a marked
impact. Key steps needed to alleviate poverty will be the development of
rainfed agriculture, more balanced regional development, rapid expansion of
manufacturing employment, continued improvement in basic public services, and
further reduction of population growth.
10.       Employment Generation.  Growth of productive employment, partic-
ularly in the industrial sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of the
labor force, and considerable underemployment exists.  During the 1970s, the
agriculture and service sectors had to absorb an excessively high proportion
of new entrants to the labor force. Manufacturing employment stagnated in the
first half of the decade, and picked up only slightly thereafter as labor-
intensive export production grew. Overseas employment, especially in the
/1 This figure is based on a more recent survey than the data in Annex I.



- 4 -
Middle East, increased rapidly, providing a temporary, income opportunity.  As
the absorptive capacity of the agricultural sector is; limited, employment
generation in manufacturing will have to increase considerably in the 1980s.
11.       Efficiency of Investment.  While private and public investment rose
sharply during the last decade and have reached reasonable levels, the
accompanying expansion of the economy's real output has been relatively low.
In addition, the low rate of industrial job creation indicates that, on
average, investment has not been labor-intensive enough.  The low efficiency
and low labor-intensity of investment have been caused by the distortive
effects of past trade, induLstrial, and financial policies on the allocation
of capital. In view of tight resource constraints to be faced in the 1980s,
the efficiency and labor-intensity of investment will be critical determinants
of future growth in output and employment.
Sectoral Issues
12.        The Philippines- macro-economic performance reflects achievements
and problems at the sectoral level. The more important of these are summar-
ized below for the agricultural, industrial, and energy sectors.
13.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  Although there has been con-
siderable variation among subsectors, the trend growth rate of the agricul-
ture, fishery, and forestry sector was about 5% during the 1970s, which is
quite high by international standards. The Philippines, once a chronic
importer of rice, began to export modest quantities in 1977, and rice self-
sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s.  Production of fish and non-
traditional export crops, such as bananas and coffee, has also expanded
rapidly. However, the development of rainfed agriculture, which is of cri-
tical importance for raising the incomes of the rural poor, has lagged behind.
Technologies to increase yields of corn have been developed only recently,
while multiple cropping systems are still at an early stage of development.
Productivity in the important coconut export sector remains low because the
recently introduced program to replace overage trees has not yet attained
rapid progress.  Furthermore, population pressure on the arable land is
steadily increasing, and soil erosion in hilly areas that have been logged
over or settled is a serious problem.
14.       The Government has provided substantial support for rural develop-
ment. Agricultural production has benefitted from the introduction of high-
yielding varieties, improved credit, extension, and irrigation programs.
Rural infrastructure programs in water supply, electrification and health
services have also been expanded significantly. An agrarian reform of rice
and corn land, instituted in 1972, is well advanced.
15.        While these programs have achieved considerable improvements, the
gains have been uneven among regions, crops, and farming systems.  Difficult
issues remain to be addressed if the living conditions of the rural poor are



to be improved. Solutions to the interrelated problems of low incomes and
poor soils in marginal settlements will require the development of tree
cropping and mixed farming technologies, resolution of land tenure questions,
and substantial upgrading of the administrative capability of the agencies
concerned. Steps are also needed to reduce poverty among subsistence
fishermen, coconut farmers, and sugar cane workers.
16.       Industry.  Details of the industrial sector, the Government's
industrial development strategy and recent industrial reforms are provided
in Part III of this report.
17.       Energy.  Another sector critical for the success of the Philippines'
structural adjustment effort is the energy sector. Since the 1973-74 oil
price increase, the Philippines has made a considerable effort to reduce its
dependency on imported oil. Demand restraint - largely through pricing and
taxing measures - held the growth rate of energy consumption one percentage
point below that of GDP. Steps to increase and diversify domestic energy
supply have included the development of hydroelectric, geothermal, coal, and
nuclear energy. Limited domestic petroleum production also began in 1979.
However, due to the long gestation period of energy projects, domestic energy
production still constituted only 17% of total commercial energy consumption
in 1980. In response to the "second oil crisis", the Government is acceler-
ating its program for domestic energy production but further taxing and
pricing initiatives will also be needed to restrain demand.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and Allocation
18.       Domestic Savings and the Financial Sector.  During the 1970s, gross
national savings expanded considerably, reaching 22.5% of GNP and financing
about 80% of total investment. However, the savings ratio needs to rise by
another 2-3% of GNP in order to maintain investment levels while simultane-
ously limiting the current account deficit and the country's reliance on
foreign savings. In addition, interest rates and other financial incentives
affecting the labor-intensity and efficiency of investment, the flexibility
and competitiveness of the financial system, and the maturity of lending all
needed to be increased. Hence, in 1980-81 the Government introduced a
comprehensive set of financial reforms. Interest rates are being substan-
tially decontrolled, and revised monetary, fiscal, and rediscount policies are
being introduced. Legislation to encourage multipurpose banking has also been
adopted to reduce the present excessive specialization and fragmentation of
the financial system and to increase competition.
19.       Public Finance.  During the 1970s, the Government raised the overall
level of public expenditures by 5% of GNP and increased the shares going to
economic services and investment. At the end of the decade, total government
expenditures had reached 18% of GNP, with public investment equalling 6.5% of
GNP. The expansion of public expenditures has made possible improvements in
basic infrastructure, particularly in transportation, power and irrigation, as



well as expanded programs in urban development, health and family planning.
At present, the size of the public investment program is appropriate, and its
composition is, with a few exceptions, broadly consistent with the country-s
development priorities.
20.        In the last few years, however, public investment has been con-
strained by the availability of resources, outdated contracting regulations
and rigid budget execution procedures which were introduced in anticipation of
a tight revenue situation. Problems were particularly acute during the period
of high inflation in 1979 and 1980, and they caused the Government actually to
underspend its capital budget. As resource constraints are likely to remain
tight during the 1980s, further strengthening of investment programming and
budgeting procedures will be needed to concentrate resources on the highest
priority projects.
21.        The rapid expansion of public expenditures has been made possible by
a program of systematic tax reform. The proportion of revenue coming from
domestic taxes has been raised through increases in indirect taxes and
improved collection, thus reducing dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade. The tax ratio was raised by three percentage points to
13.3% of GNP during the decade, but has remained about constant in the last
few years. Continuation of a strong revenue effort, both by the Government
and government corporations, will be necessary to finance further expansion in
infrastructure and social services. Further tax reforms are needed to raise
the elasticity of the revenue system, to improve its equity by increasing the
proportion of revenue coming from direct taxes, and to eliminate remaining
distortions in economic incentives.
Balance of Payments Adjustment and External Capital Requirements
22.        The 1979-80 oil price increase has considerably tightened the long-
term balance of payments constraints for the Philippines. The share of oil in
total merchandise imports increased from 12% in the early 1970s to 29% in
1980. The current account deficit widened to $2.1 billion in 1980, equivalent
to 5.8% of GNP. If growth and investment rates are to be maintained, acceler-
ated structural adjustments in the economy and the balance of payments have
become essential to hold the external deficit at a sustainable level. Con-
siderable reforms have already been introduced with respect to trade, indus-
trial, and financial policies (see paras. 17 and 19), and improvements are
under consideration in energy policy. Additional policy measures will be
needed in these areas as well as resource mobilization and investment pro-
gramming. Implementation of necessary adjustment measures should make it
possible to sustain economic growth at 6.0-6.5%, mainly through improved
performance of the industrial sector. However, policy measures will require a
number of years to effect the needed structural improvement in the balance of
payments. The current account deficit, therefore, is expected to remain in
the range of $2.0-2.5 billion annually during the first half of the 1980s,
while declining in relative terms to about 4% of GNP by the mid-1980s.



23.        The Philippines raised its external borrowing sharply to finance the
balance of payments deficits incurred after the 1973-74 oil price increase.
During the second half of the 1970s, net disbursements from medium- and
long-term loans doubled to $1.2 billion in 1980 and the debt service ratio
stood at 20% in 1981.  Substantial additional foreign capital will be needed
during the period of adjustment to the 1979-80 oil price increase, and net
disbursements from medium- and long-term loans will have to double again in
the next five years.  If the Philippines can sustain the strong export per-
formance of the recent past, the debt service ratio would remain at about 20%.
24.        Official sources are expected to provide about 43% of the
Philippines' gross external capital in the early 1980s. The last Consultative
Group Meeting, held in January 1981, agreed that it would be reasonable for
the Philippines to seek official development assistance (ODA) of about $1.2
billion during 1981, a slight increase over the ODA commitments it received in
1980.
25.       As noted above, progress has been made in domestic resource
mobilization. However, because the deterioration in the terms of trade has
increased the Philippines' external financing requirements, and many projects
planned for ODA have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary resource
transfer can be achieved only through some financing of local costs of
projects and non-project lending.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
26.       As of March 31, 1982 the Philippines had received 78 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $2,967.6 million and
six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled $143.8
million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and outstanding
is currently about 11%, and its share in total debt service is about 8%.
These ratios are expected to be about 18% and 12%, respectively, by 1985.
Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC investments as
of March 31, 1982 as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
27.        The volume of World Bank lending to the Philippines has increased
substantially from an average of about $90 million per year in FY71-75 to an
average of $420 million in FY77-81. Although the Bank has financed projects
in virtually all sectors of the economy, particular emphasis has been given to
agriculture, which has accounted for more than one-third of total Bank/IDA
lending.  Another fifth of Bank lending has been for the transportation sec-
tor. Lending for power, industry, and social sectors followed in declining
order of size. The sectoral allocation of Bank lending remained fairly stable
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Textile Sector Restructuring Project which
was approved by the Executive Directors on April 20, 1982.



- 8 -
throughout the 1970s. Pronounced changes took place only within infrastruc-
ture as lending for transportation and power declined in the second half of
the 1970s, while lending for water supply and urban development was initiated
during this period.
28.        Within sectors, however, considerable changes have taken place in
Bank lending. In agriculture, lending initially focused on expanding the
irrigation system, credit programs, and other services to support rice
production. More recently, efforts have been made to diversify agricultural
production through loans for treecrops, livestock, and fisheries, and to
assist low-income areas through integrated rural development projects.  In the
industrial and financial sectors, the Bank initially concentrated on streng-
thening individual development finance institutions and on providing for the
credit needs of small and medium industries.  In the last two years, however,
industrial and financial lending has been broadened to support the implemen-
tation of needed policy reforms.  A structural adjustment loan was made in
September 1980 in support of trade and industrial reforms. Improvements in
financial sector policies were the basis for the May 1981 Industrial Finance
Loan, which also introduced a new institutional concept to broaden the reach
of Bank lending by channelling loans through an "apex" unit in the Central
Bank.
29.       While overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in the
Philippines has been satisfactory, disbursements have been slower than anti-
cipated. Disbursement performance is somewhat below the average for the
region, and has shown a slowly deteriorating trend over the past few years.
Implementation problems increased in the late 1970s, reflecting, in part,
administrative problems c:aused by high inflation and tight budget constraints
(para. 20). They also result from the changes in the scope of the Bank's
lending operations: a substantial increase in the number of projects, new
areas of lending, an emphasis on institution-building, and efforts to reach
specific target groups arid deprived regions have all made implementation a
more demanding task than in the past. The first project implementation review
was held in May 1980 at which time, among other issues, the relatively poor
disbursement performance was discussed. Steps werei subsequently taken to
correct some of the administrative problems which were discussed with the
Government during the review. A second review, held in February 1982, pro-
vided a useful follow-up and exchange of views on problems still being expe-
rienced in project implementation. During the February review, the Govern-
ment and the Bank agreed that similar reviews would be held in future on a
regular basis.
30.        The Bank's future lending program has been designed to assist in
achieving the major objectives of the Government's Development Plan (para. 5).
Particular emphasis is being given to supporting poverty alleviation efforts
and to bringing about needed structural adjustments in the economy. Economic
and sector work is being closely integrated with lending operations. Future
project, sector, and structural adjustment loans will be designed to address
the wide variety of technical, institutional, and policy issues facing the
Philippines. Additional structural adjustment loans are planned to support
further reforms in trade, industry, and other key policy areas. In sectoral
terms, agriculture and rural development will continue to account for the



- 9 -
largest share of lending, with emphasis on food production and programs to
increase the incomes of the rural poor and rehabilitate existing cash crops.
Substantial assistance will be given to industry through the proposed project;
through further subsector loans aimed at restructuring or developing specific
subsectors; and through continued industrial finance projects utilizing the
recently introduced "apex" concept. Increased effort is also planned over the
next several years to develop domestic energy resources and to strengthen the
institutions responsible for developing and managing energy supplies.  The
Bank's support for projects in education, health, family planning, water
supply, and urban development will aim at improving basic services and
supporting employment creation, particularly in less advanced areas of the
country.
31.        This is the fifth loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. Loans for communal irrigation, coal
exploration, geothermal exploration, petroleum exploration promotion,
vocational education, rural water supply and sanitation, and regional cities
development have been appraised and are scheduled for Board presentation in
the coming months.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
32.        In 1979, the manufacturing sector accounted for 25% of GDP, 30% of
fixed investment and 12% of total employment. The "unorganized" manufacturing
sector (those establishments employing less than 10 workers) accounts for
about 65% of the manufacturing work force, but produces less than 5% of
manufacturing value-added. Conversely, the "organized" manufacturing sector
produces most of the value-added but provides only limited employment. As a
result of an industrialization strategy based on import substitution, more
than 80% of total manufacturing output is oriented towards the domestic
market, of which consumer goods constitute over 50%. The introduction of
export promotion measures in the early 1970s led to extremely rapid growth in
exports of nontraditional manufactures, which, in 1980, accounted for
one-third of the country's total exports. However, the export expansion has
been concentrated on a few items, and backward linkages with the rest of the
economy have been limited due to the high cost and low quality of domestic
inputs. The chief causes of poor industrial performance have been identified
as the highly protective trade regime and the capital-intensive bias of
investment policies.
33.        Overall Industrial Development Strategy and Recent Industrial
Reforms. In order to meet the objectives of the 1978-82 Five-Year Development
Plan (para. 5) the Government seeks to develop an efficient and competitive
industrial structure based on the country's comparative advantage with respect
to labor costs and availability of raw materials. The Government recently



- 10 -
outlined its industrialization strategy in conjunction with a phased policy
reform program to be implemented over a five-year period. This program is
intended to correct the import substitution and capital-intensive biases of
existing industrial and trade policies.  The first phase, currently under
implementation, concentrates on export promotion measures and tariff reform/
trade liberalization. The second phase, under preparation, would cover
investment incentives and their administration, industrial restructuring and
subsector programming. To support the Government in its first phase of policy
reforms, the Bank approved a $200 million Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) in
September 1980 (Loan 1903-PH). In 1980-81, the Government introduced a
comprehensive set of banking and financial sector reforms which focussed on
liberalizing interest rates and encouraging long-term lending, and which were
supported by the Bank's Industrial Finance Project approved in May 1981
(Loan 1984-PH).
The Small and Medium Industries (SMI) /1 Sector
34.       It is estimated. that over the period 1967-1975, in terms of number
of establishments, the cottage industry grew at an average annual rate of 7%,
and was the fastest growing source of employment in the Philippines, currently
employing around 900,000 workers (more than five times the employment
generated by small and medium factory-based operations in the modern
manufacturing sector). In 1975, the year for which most recent data are
available, small-scale firms accounted for 73% of the total number of firms in
the modern manufacturing sector (which excludes cottage industries), 18% of
employment and 10% of manufacturing value-added. Small and medium industries
together accounted for 85% of the total number of firms in the modern manufac-
turing sector and 29% of the labor force, and contributed 30% to gross value-
added. As of the same date, 73% of all small-scale industry establishments
and 42% of all medium industries were concentrated in four key subsectors:
food (excluding tobacco and beverages), garments (excluding textiles and
footwear) wood and furniture, and metal-working. Philippine SMIl products
(principally embroidery, bamboo and rattan crafts and needlecrafts), valued at
$555.8 million, were ranked as the third most important export item in 1980.
While some SMI have been able to break into the export market, the vast
majority have been unable to do so despite the export potential of their
output. The Government is therefore providing SMI with marketing assistance
and is actively promoting subcontracting.
/1 For this project and report, unless otherwise specified, 51II refers to
cottage as well as small- and medium-scale manufacturing and manufactur-
ing-related service industries. Based on the Government's recently
revised asset-based definition of SMI, cottage industries are those with
total assets at the time of loan applications of up to P 250,000
($30,860), small industries are those with total assets ranging from
P 250,000 to P 2.5 million ($30,860 - $308,600) and medium industries
have total assets before financing of P 2.5 million to P 10.0 million
($308,600 - $1.2 million).



- 11 -
35.       Policy Environment for SMI Development.  The recently introduced
industrial and financial sector reforms (para. 33) provide a policy framework
conducive to the growth and development of SIl. The reduction in tariffs will
force local industries to be more cost conscious, which would be conducive to
the promotion of subcontracting, largely involving SMil. Lower tariffs would
also allow importation of cheaper and higher quality raw materials and other
inputs which would benefit specific subsectors in which SMI predominate, such
as garments and leather.  The recently introduced export reforms, such as
increased fiscal incentives, provision of financing, simplified export/import
procedures and expanded access to bonded manufacturing warehouses, would
provide the necessary impetus and infrastructure support to SMII to break into
the export market. With regard to financial sector reforms, the removal of
interest rate ceilings would enable private financial institutions to assess a
charge for the transaction costs and risks associated with their lending,
which would encourage them to lend to SMI from their own resources. Also, the
expanded banking authority provided to thrift banks, which are largely located
in rural areas, would broaden SMI's access to credit. Under the second phase
of the Government's industrial policy reforms, the Board of Investments (BOI)
would undertake a major reform of the industrial incentive system. Special
features would be introduced to make the investment incentive system more
accessible to smaller firms and those located outside Metro Manila. Also, BOI
and MTI are planning to introduce sector development programs for the
development of specific subsectors and identify subsector-specific
institutional and policy constraints that require remedial and supporting
actions. This would be beneficial to SMI which tend to concentrate in a few
key industrial subsectors (para. 34).
36.       SMI Sector Strategy.  The Government views SMI as an important
factor in achieving its industrial development objectives. First, being labor
intensive, SMI are in a position to create employment at a low cost-per-job
and simultaneously bring about a more equitable distribution of income.
Second, SlIl are an important element in the Government's countryside develop-
ment program, as they generally produce for local markets and are less depen-
dent on infrastructure than large industry. Third, SMI often utilize indi-
genous resources and are becoming increasingly export oriented. The Govern-
ment, through MTI, has recently issued its SMI Policy and Strategy Statement
for the 1980s which reaffirms Government commitment to the development and
promotion of the SMI sector and represents the first comprehensive industrial
policy statement issued by the Government on this sector.  This Statement is
attached as Annex IV to this report, and its implementation would be reviewed
periodically by the Government and the Bank (Section 4.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
37.       Interagency Coordination of SMI Policy and Programs.  At present,
there are a large number of government- and privately-owned agencies servicing
the SMI sector, but, due to lack of coordination among them, there is consid-
erable duplication of effort (para. 61). To coordinate their operations,
MTI through the Bureau of Small and Medium Industries (BSMI) will take the
lead role in SMI policy and development activities as indicated in the
Government's SilI Policy and Strategy Statement. An External Affairs Group



- 12 -
has already been established within the BSMI and is engaged in: (a) esta-
blishing bilateral  Memoranda of Agreement  with key SMI agencies; (b) taking
the initiative in resolving SMI policy issues; and (c) gathering and
disseminating comprehensive information on assistance programs for SMI.
SMI Assistance Programs
38.       The SBAC/MASICAP Program./l  While a vast number of technical
agencies service the SMI sector, the SBAC/MASICAP program is the only one with
a broad outreach and a presence in the regions for t'he delivery of technical
assistance to SMI. Both t'he SBAC and MASICAP programs were established in
1974, and were meant to be complementary; the MASICAP was to assist SMI
entrepreneurs in preparing project feasibility studies for institutional
financing, while the SBAC program was to provide entrepreneurs with assistance
to overcome operational problems. Over time, the SBAC and MASICAP programs
experienced an overlap in clients, services and physical facilities and the
two programs were merged in July 1980. The main functions of the SBAC/MASICAP
program to date are: (a) project development through the preparation of feasi-
bility studies and loan applications; (b) counselling existing entrepreneurs
on a range of post-operational problems; (c) operating as a referral service
between SMI entrepreneurs and other technical assistance agencies; and,
(d) undertaking industry-level activities such as group counselling on
production and marketing issues, preparation of industry studies and
assistance in the formation of industry associations. With the introduction
of the Kilusang Kabuhayan at Kaunlaran (KKK) program (para. 42) in late 1981,
SBAC/MASICAP staff have been required to prepare and implement projects
eligible for KKK funding. MTI is also considering the functional integration
of the SBAC/MASICAP program with other technical assistance programs. At
year-end 1981, in addition to BSMI's Manila-based staff of 53, SBAC/MASICAP
had a staff of 277, which is expected to increase to about 600 by 1985.  The
present and projected staffing is considered adequate to carry out
SBAC/MASICAP's regular but expanding operations and to provide limited
assistance to the KKK program. To ensure that SBAC/MASICAP is able to
discharge its responsibilities under the project, BSMI and SBAC/MASICAP
program would be allocated the necessary staff and budgetary resources, and
the Bank would be consulted before introducing any material changes affecting
the organization or administration of the BSMI or SBAC/MASICAP program
(Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
39.       Under the Bank's first SMI project (Loan 1120-PH, approved in 1975),
$0.7 million was provided for establishing regional SBAC offices in each of
the country's twelve regions. Under the second SMI project (Loan 1727-PH,
approved in 1979), $0.5 miLlion was allocated to strengthen the staff of
MASICAP, thereby upgrading the quality of its service to SMI entrepreneurs.
Performance under both loans has been satisfactory. Given its wide regional
coverage, the value accorded its advice by clients, and the broadening of its
/1 Small Business Advisory Centers (SBAC) and the Medium and Small Industries
Coordinated Action Program (MASICAP).



- 13 -
functions from entrepreneur counselling to industry-level activities, SBAC/
MASICAP is a unique regional assistance delivery mechanism worthy of further
support.
40.       The National Cottage Industries Development Authority (NACIDA) is a
government agency whose role is to organize, promote and provide technical
assistance to cottage industries. Historically, NACIDA (unlike SBAC/MASICAP)
had the power to accredit cottage industries to be eligible for fiscal and
other benefits. There is some duplication in the operations of NACIDA and
SBAC/MASICAP in that they both service cottage industries by providing/
arranging training for entrepreneurs and preparing project feasibility
studies. MTI has indicated that it is considering changing the focus of the
NACIDA program to enable it to play a more active role in identifying cottage
industry products with growth potential. In addition, a merger of the
SBAC/MASICAP and NACIDA programs is being considered. Before a merger is
brought about, however, the operations and staffing of NACIDA will have to be
reviewed (para. 61).
41.       Technical Research Institutes.  There are, at present, a number of
technical institutes undertaking specialized product research. Some of the
more important of these institutes for the SMI sector are the M1etals Industry
Research and Development Center, Forest Products Research and Industries
Development Commission, the Food and Nutrition Research Institute, and the
Design Center of the Philippines. The main weakness of these institutes is
that they do not have a regional delivery mechanism whereby their research
findings can be disseminated. Under the project, SBAC/MASICAP will use the
technical expertise of these institutions to develop and implement pilot
projects and to provide SMI with the necessary technical training (para. 59).
42.        SMI Financing Programs.  Traditionally, the major sources of
institutional credit for the SMI sector have been the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP) and the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF).
Private development banks (PDBs) have also been active in providing credit
to cottage and small-scale industries. In addition, the Government has
recently established several new financing programs to service the SMI
sector. The nation-wide KKK movement was launched in August 1981 with the
objective of transforming the country's barangays (smallest political
subdivision) into self-reliant productive units. Under the KKK program,
locally initiated enterprises are provided with interest-free and low
interest (12%) loans. The fundamental operating concept behind the program
is the development of prototype projects for all key economic sectors as a
basis for local community development. However, the characteristics of
KKK-funded projects differ from those of subprojects to be funded under the
proposed project; the target beneficiary groups are cooperatives formed from
poverty groups, project selection would be by a Municipal Development
Council chaired by the local Mayor, and project appraisal and supervision
criteria are likely to be less stringent. The Government has also
established the Cottage Industry Guarantee and Loan Fund for the promotion
and development of cottage industries, and the Venture Capital Corporations
to provide equity and transaction financing for SMI.



- 14 -
Bank Lending Strategy for the Industrial and SMI Sectors
43.       Until recently, the Bank's involvement in the industrial sector has
chiefly been in the provision of resources to industry through development
finance companies and financial schemes. Since the late 1970s, however, the
Bank has been trying to implement a broader strategy in the industrial sector
which has a stronger policy focus. The SAL represents the Bank's first
attempt at implementing its new macro-lending strategy by concentrating on
issues related to the trade regime and investment climate (para. 33). The
Industrial Finance Project (Loan No. 1984-PH of Mayr 1981) provides resources
to financial institutions for onlending to medium- and large-scale industry,
and focusses mainly on the financial reforms necessary to support the Govern-
ment's industrial development objectives. With the knowledge and experience
gained through these loans, the Bank is now beginning to supplement its
policy-oriented strategy with more specialized, subsector loans. A loan for
textile sector restructuring was approved in April 1982 and a proposed metal-
working sector project is being prepared. In future lending to SMI, greater
focus would be placed on specific subsectors and regional development. While
the long-term strategy for Bank SMI lending is to channel funds through an
apex unit, the current status of the financial institutions presently
servicing the sector requires greater involvement from the Bank.
44.       Since 1975, the Bank has loaned about $11.0 million to the Philip-
pines for SMI development. The Bank's first SMI loan (Loan 1120-PH), for
$30 million, was approved in 1975. Under the loan, financing was made
available to SMI entrepreneurs through DBP and IGLF; lending to industrial
cooperatives was undertaken through the National Electrification
Administration (NEA), and technical assistance was provided through the SBAC
(para. 39). The recently finalized Project Completion Report (PCR) for this
loan indicates that, in general, the DBP, IGLF and SBAC components were
reasonably successful, while lending to NEA was much less so, chiefly because
the assistance required to establish successful industrial cooperatives was
underestimated.  The Bank achieved some institution-building impact with DBP,
although major institutional improvements continued to be needed to strengthen
the administration of its SMI program. The institution-building impact was
considerably greater in the case of IGLF, even though private financial sector
participation continued to be limited. The PCR recommends that, in future,
technical assistance be more sharply focussed on industry subsector problems
and that DBP's management of its SMI operations be strengthened.  The lessons
learned from the first SMI project have been taken into account in formulating
the proposed project.
45.       Under the Bank's second SMI Loan (Loan 1727-PH) for $25 million
approved in 1979, a concerted effort was made to increase both the number and
type of financial institutions participating in thle IGLF program, and
financing was provided to upgrade the MASICAP program. Experience to date
shows that participation in the IGLF program has increased substantially.
The $24.5 million IGLF component was fully disbursted by October 1981,
significantly ahead of the appraisal estimate; dis'bursements under the MASICAP
component, however, have been slower than anticipated. In addition to the two
SMI loans, specific components for SMI operations were earmarked under Loans
1190-PH and 1572-PH which were channelled through DBP and were approved in



- 15 -
1976 and 1978, respectively. The Bank's SMI financing provided through these
four loans has so far helped to finance 2,669 subprojects with a total cost of
$213.1 million. The incremental employment generated by the projects amounts
to 52,846 jobs, with an average cost-per-job of $4,032.
46.        IFC has supported the SMI sector through three projects by financing
a leasing company aimed at assisting SMI, a small business investment company
to provide equity and transaction financing, and special purpose corporations
to provide integrated packages of funds and business advisory services to the
small and medium industries. These activities are relatively new to draw on
them for lessons.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       The proposed project was prepared by IGLF, DBP and MTI with the
assistance of the Bank, and was appraised in October/November 1981.
Negotiations were held in Washington, DC in April 1982. The Philippine
negotiating team was led by the Honorable Eugenio Nierras, Jr., Deputy
Governor, Central Bank of the Philippines. A Staff Appraisal Report
No. 3838-PH dated May 6, 1982 is being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
48.       Project Objectives and Description, The proposed project is
designed to broaden the provision of financial and technical assistance to
SMI within the framework of the Government's SMI Policy and Strategy State-
ment (para. 36). The project would attempt to achieve this objective by:
(a) developing the institutional capabilities of some of the key financing
institutions servicing the sector; (b) concentrating technical assistance on
removing bottlenecks faced by regional priority SMI subsectors and improving
the coordination of technical assistance programs for the sector; (c) in-
creasing the involvement of the private sector in the design and provision of
assistance to SMI; and (d) helping the Government address some selected policy
and subsectoral problems which impede the further development of the SMI
sector.
49.       The project consists of a credit and a technical assistance
component covering both manufacturing and manufacturing-related service indus-
tries. Under the credit component, emphasis would be placed on channelling
loan funds through privately-owned financial institutions, namely those
operating under the IGLF program and the private development banks (PDBs),
which would be receiving Bank funds for the first time for onlending to SMI.
The project would also continue assisting the direct SMI lending program of
DBP. The technical assistance component would: (a) help expand the
SBAC/MASICAP network and scope of operations and enhance their operational
efficiency through the provision of vehicles, equipment and reference
libraries, and the provision of training courses and consultancy assistance
for SBAC/MASICAP and BSMI staff, and SMI entrepreneurs; (b) establish a pilot
project fund to provide SBAC/MASICAP with the necessary funds to address the
constraints hindering the development of priority subsectors on a test-case
basis; and (c) finance studies on some major issues relevant to the
development of the SMI sector.



- 16 -
Institutional Arrangements and Project Implementation
50.       Industrial Guara-ntee and Loan Fund (IGLF).  IGLF was established in
1952 as a compensatory financing and guarantee fund. Owned by the National
Economic and Development Authority (NEDA), and administered by the Central
Bank's Department of Loans and Credit, IGLF operates as an apex unit providing
resources and loan guarantees to accredited financiaL institutions for
onlending to SMI.  As many of these institutions have an extensive regional
network, the IGLF program has a wide geographical reach. To date, 32
institutions have been accredited: 14 commercial banks, 12 nonbank financial
intermediaries, 4 private development banks, and 2 savings/mortgage banks.
While providing institutional guidance and monitoring the overall performance
of the program, IGLF delegates all appraisal and supervision responsibilities
to the accredited financial institutions. Only accredited institutions would
be eligible for funding under the proposed project. IGLF has decided to
modify certain lending policies and operating procedures so that: (a) cot-
tage industries, manufacturing-related service industries and all viable
medium-scale industries would be eligible for IGLF financing; and (b)
provision of accreditation status would be made avai:Lable to commercial
institutions such as leasing companies, but would be denied to PDBs
(para. 57). Hence, IGLF's Lending Strategy Statement and Policy Manual are
being revised and would be reviewed by the Bank before issuance by September
30, 1982 (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       IGLF loan approvals increased from P 29.2 million in 1976 to
P 59.9 million in 1979, resulting in an annual growth rate of 27%. Since
medium-scale industries became eligible for IGLF funding in 1979, loan
approvals increased to P 234.4 million at the end of 1981. This sharp
increase in IGLF's loan portfolio has been coupled with a significant
improvement in its quality. As of December 31, 1981, total arrears of
end-users to accredited institutions as a percentage of outstanding portfolio
amounted to 6%; the comparable figure as of December 31, 1979 was 20.3%. To
enable IGLF to play a more active role in upgrading the SMI operations of its
accredited institutions, IGLF would be encouraged uncler the project to shift
its focus from reviewing individual subprojects to evaluating the partici-
pating institutions. For this purpose, training courses in institutional
evaluation have been designed for IGLF staff and in project evaluation and
supervision for the staff of its accredited institutions.
52.       The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP).  DBP, a government-
owned development bank with 64 branches and agencies, is by far the largest
supplier of long-term credit in the Philippines. Despite significant improve-
ments since its first association with the Bank in 1972, DBP continues to face
a number of organizational, managerial and financial problems. Under the
Bank-assisted Industrial Finance Project (Loan 1984-PH), an Action Program was
developed to deal with these institution-wide problems, implementation of
which has been satisfactory. In August 1981, a new Chairman was appointed to
DPB who has taken an active interest in upgrading DBP"s operations.



- 17 -
53.        DBP's Direct SMI Lending.  The Small and Medium Industries Lending
Department (SMILE) of DBP was established in 1973.  SMILE is responsible for
processing all SMI loans in Metro Manila and supervising branch SMI opera-
tions. In addition, it finances and/or administers a number of special
financing schemes catering to the needs of specific SMI subsestors. Under the
proposed project, Bank resources will only be available to small and medium
industries, as DBP's present strategy is to move away from direct cottage
industry lending and instead provide resources to this subsector indirectly
through rediscount operations with rural and private development banks.  DBP
has also decided to adopt the total asset size definition applied by other
institutions providing financing for SMI to determine the applicable interest
rate. DBP's lending strategy for SMI is being revised to reflect the adopted
new definition for SMI and the applicable interest rates and would be issued
by September 30, 1982 (Section 2.10 of the draft Project Agreement).
54.        DBP's SMI operations currently face a number of problems which are
addressed in an agreed Action Program (para. 56) the implementation of which
would be reviewed periodically by the Bank and DBP (Section 1.02(c) of the
draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.12 of the draft Project Agreement). The
SMILE Department currently has a staff of 123, which is adequate to handle the
current and projected volume of its operations. However, its present
organizational structure gives rise to four major areas of concern: insuffi-
cient coordination with branches; administration of special financing schemes
on behalf of the Government at the expense of its regular operations; inade-
quate project supervision; and inadequate monitoring of its SMI operations.
To resolve these problems, DBP is: (a) establishing SMI units in all its
branches and agencies under the functional control of SMILE; (b) reorganizing
SMILE so that there is a special unit to handle the special financing schemes;
(c) strengthening project supervision; and (d) developing a management
information system (MIS) to provide accurate and up-to-date data to facilitate
monitoring.
55.        Other problems include long loan processing times, inadequate dis-
bursement procedures, increasing arrears and inaccurate and tardy reporting of
SMI operations. To reduce processing time, appraisal procedures would be
streamlined and staff training provided so that the average processing time
would be reduced to 60 days as compared to the present 131 days at head
office (SMILE). With respect to disbursements, procedural changes are
outlined in the Action Program to ensure that adequate documentation is
maintained (para. 67). While total arrears as a percentage of DBP's
outstanding SMI portfolio decreased from 19.5% to 11.6% between 1978 and 1979,
the arrears position has since deteriorated and amounted to 15.7% as of
December 31, 1981. As of that date, the portfolio affected by arrears
amounted to 73% by number and 52% by amount. The collection ratio decreased
from 62% in 1980 to 52% in 1981. A project-by-project review of the SMI
portfolio affected by arrears would be completed by December 31, 1982, with a
view to deciding on the appropriate remedial action to be taken (rescheduling
or foreclosure).  In addition, a program for managing accounts in arrears has
been developed. DBP's reporting on its SMI operation continues to be of
uneven quality and subject to long delays.  There are several reasons for the
delays: (a) fundamental record-keeping problems with regard to DBP's



- 18 -
SMI operations; (b) delays in the reporting of the branches to the Branches
and Agencies Department (BAAD) on their SMI operations; and (c) processing
delays, as computer time is scarce. The increased functional control of SMILE
over branch SMI operations, coupled with the introduction of an effective MIS
would help in addressing this problem.
56.        The agreed Action Program includes:  (a) reorganizing the SMILE
Department and establishing SMI units in the branches; (b) developing a
management information system for SMI operations by September 30, 1982;
(c) streamlining of procedures with a view to reducing loan processing time
and strengthening supervision activities; (d) formulating appropriate training
programs for DBP staff involved in SMI lending operations; and (e) reviewing
the SMI portfolio by December 31, 1982 in order to reduce the arrears ratio by
6% for SMILE and 4% for the branches and increasing collection ratio by 15%,
by the end of 1985. As the time required to implement all elements of the
Action Program is likely to be significant, the DBP direct lending component
of the loan would be disbursed in two equal tranches, with disbursement of the
second tranche continge!nt on progress made under the Action Program (Paragraph
4 of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement). Release of the second tranche
would be based on an evaluation to be conducted when the first tranche has
been disbursed. The key elements of the Action Program to be considered in
releasing the second tranche would be: implementation of the supervision
program; reduction of loan processing time; meeting the targets with respect
to quality of portfolio; and implementation of the MIS program.
57.        Private Development Banks (PDBs).  PDBs are small, privately-owned
banks which service limited geographic areas. As of December 31, 1981, the
44 PDBs accounted for only 0.7% of the total assets of the financial system;
however, they perform an important role in providing term finance to small
agricultural and industrial enterprises. One of the functions assigned to
DBP under its charter is to help establish and develop the PDB system. DBP's
Department of Development and Rural Banks (DDRB) is in charge of providing
rediscounting facilities and technical assistance to PDBs and rural banks
operations. Given this role, DBP operates as the natural apex institution for
onlending Bank resources to PDBs. Under the project, PDBs would be accredited
by DDRB, on the basis of criteria acceptable to the Bank, to draw on Bank
resources (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Project Agreement). PDBs would be
required to evaluate projects on the basis of their financial and economic
viability rather than just the collateral offered, and to undertake project
supervision on a regular basis. Accredited PDBs located outside Metro-Manila
would also be required to provide at least 60% of their loans to subprojects
outside Metro-Manila in order to encourage geographical dispersion of SMI and
support regional development (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
It is expected that by the time the loan became ef-fective, about five PDBs
would have been accredited. As the PDB system is upgraded, other PDBs would
become eligible for accreditation. Because upgrading PDBs operations to meet
accreditation criteria would be costly, specific additional incentives would
be made available to accredited PDBs, including: 100% rediscounting for SMI
loans (similar to the IGLF program); rediscounting at the rate of 14% (as



- 19 -
against 16% for nonaccredited PDBs) from DBP, resulting in an end-user rate of
21% (as against 23%); and the authority to approve directly loans of up to
P 250,000 each (approximately $31,000). A detailed training program has
also been developed and approved by the Bank to strengthen PDBs' financial and
economic analysis capabilities and to provide PDBs' staff with the necessary
project appraisal and supervision expertise. DDRB has been reorganized and a
training program for DDRB staff would be undertaken to help DDRB implement the
accreditation program effectively and shift its focus from reviewing projects
to evaluating institutions. DDRB's lending strategy and its policy and
operational manual are being revised to incorporate the new regulations
referred to above, and would be issued by September 30, 1982 (Section 2.10 of
the draft Project Agreement).
58.       Technical Assistance Component.  The technical assistance component,
to be channelled through BSMI, would include three elements: (a) upgrading the
physical facilities of the SBAC/MASICAP program to extend further the
program's outreach, and providing requisite and specialized training for BSMI
and SBAC/MASICAP staff and SMI entrepreneurs; (b) pilot projects which aim at
removing constraints which hinder the growth of regional industries; and
(c) studies on some major issues affecting the development of the SMI sector.
In keeping with the Government's SMI Sector Strategy (para. 36), MTI has, in
accordance with its operating strategy and guidelines, introduced the cost
sharing principle with regard to the entrepreneur training, industry studies
and project feasibility studies to be carried out under the proposed project.
MTI's share of the cost of entrepreneur training and industry studies is
expected to be reduced over the next four years to 40% compared to the present
level of about 60%.
59.       The recent move from entrepreneur counselling to the development of
an industry-wide focus requires that SBAC/MASICAP and BSMI staff have in-depth
training and technical consultancy assistance on problems facing priority
industries. In addition to training for SBAC/MASICAP and BSMI staff, it would
be necessary for SBAC/MASICAP to organize entrepreneurial training for prior-
ity SMI industry groups. It is estimated that over a four-year period, BSMI
and SBAC/MASICAP staff, and SMI entrepreneurs would attend 1,820 and 5,100
specialized training courses, respectively. The services and facilities of
some of the existing Technical Research Institutes (para. 41) would be used
for training of entrepreneurs.
60.       The proposed program of pilot projects aims at removing subsectoral
constraints hindering the growth of regional SMI.  On the basis of recent
industry studies, SBAC/MASICAP staff have identified priority industries for
each region. The industry studies thus far prepared have shown that many
problems faced by individual entrepreneurs are industry-wide, rather than
firm-specific problems. To deal with this type of problem, SBAC/MASICAP has
organized the individual entrepreneurs into industry associations and worked
closely with them to develop solutionls. When the solution indicates the
need for the development of a common facility or new/improved technologies,
a pilot project may be formulated. A project feasibility study would then be
prepared by the regional SBAC/MASICAP staff in conjunction with the interested
sponsors using consultants when necessary. The feasibility study would



- 20 -
be sent to BSMI and subsequently to the Bank for review and approval (Section
2.02 (a)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement). Under the project, a pilot project
fund would be established with DBP (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
While DBP would operate as the banking agent for MTI (Section 3.10 of the
draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.09 of the draft Project Agreement),
pilot project appraisal, approval and supervision would be undertaken by MTI
and the credit risk would be borne by MTI. An approved project would be
implemented jointly by SBAC/MASICAP and the project sponsor. The pilot
projects so far identified are typically common facilities (e.g., kiln drying,
metal testing, food processing and handicraft marketing) and reconditioning
and service centers. Certain pilot projects have been specifically developed
to address the problems of the four key SMI subsectors (para. 34), namely,
food, garments, wood and furniture, and metal-working.
61.        Studies to be conducted by consultants to review issues affecting
the development of the SMI sector would be financed under this component.
The studies thus far identified are on subcontracting (para. 34), the
provision/coordination of services to the SMI sector (para. 37) and NACIDA
(para. 40). In addition, a series of national SMI subsector/industry studies
would be undertaken which would mirror the research currently being done under
the SAL and would complement the detailed and purely regional work done by
SBAC/MASICAP. The terms of reference for the proposed studies would be
reviewed by the Bank (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
62.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at $282.0 mil-
lion of which 46% or $130.0 million would be in foreign exchange. The pro-
posed loan of $132.0 millon equivalent would finance the foreign exchange cost
of the project, including the capitalized front-end fee on the Bank loan of
about $2.0 million. The credit component of the ]proposed loan would amount to
$123.0 million. The technical assistance component would amount to $7.0 mil-
lion representing 80% of total component cost and includes $2.3 million for
the pilot project fund (para. 60); $0.6 million for equipment and reference
books, $3.5 million for training and studies; and a contingency allowance of
about $0.6 million assuming an average rate of inflation of 8%. This amount
includes disbursements against some local currency cost (about $3.0 million).
Consultants costs under the technical assistance component are estimated at
$60,000 and $100,000 per man-year for local and foreign consultants,
respectively (including salaries, fees, travel and subsistence).
63.        The proposed loan would be made to the Government for 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum. The loan
proceeds for the technical assistance component would be passed on by the
Government to MTI as a budgetary allocation. The balance of the technical
assistance cost (about $1.7 million) would be provided by the Government in
the form of budgetary allocations and by the private sector, principally in
the form of loans and equity participation in pilot projects and contributions



- 21 -
towards training and studies costs. Under the credit component, the equiv-
alent in pesos of $48.0 million of the loan proceeds would be onlent by the
Government to DBP under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank,
essentially on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan (Section 3.02(a)
of the draft Loan Agreement). Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement would
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 72). Of this
amount, $27.0 million would be for DBP's direct SMI lending, and $21.0 mil-
lion for rediscounting to PDBs. The Government would also make available
the equivalent of $63.0 million of the loan proceeds to IGLF on terms and
conditions similar to the Bank loan (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The remaining $12.0 million of the credit component would
initially be held back and later allocated, during project implementation,
to those institutions making the most effective use of Bank funds. Under
the credit component, the Bank would finance 60% of subloans, the balance
being funded by the sponsors and the financing institutions (DBP and IGLF);
a minimum equity contribution of 20% of total subproject cost would be
required from the end-user. DBP and IGLF would pay the standard 0.75%
commitment fee and the front-end fee of 1.5% on their portions of the
proposed loan. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on the
entire loan. As repayments to DBP and IGLF would be made over considerably
shorter periods than their repayments to the Government due to the fixed
amortization schedule, the surplus funds thus generated would be retained by
DBP and IGLF and would be utilized for further lending to subprojects
eligible for Bank financing according to the criteria established under the
proposed project (Section 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.08
of the draft Project Agreement).
Features of the Proposed Loan
64.       Onlending Terms.  DBP-SMI and IGLF funds would be relent to end-
users at 18% p.a. and 21% p.a. for small- and medium-scale subborrowers,
respectively. IGLF's end-user rate for cottage industry subborrowers would be
18% p.a. The PDBs accredited to use Bank funds would charge an end-user rate
of 21% p.a. on all their SMI lending operations. Loans to pilot projects from
Bank funds would carry an interest rate of 18% p.a. These rates are market-
oriented and, given the projected rates of inflation (under 10%) for the life
of the project, they are substantially positive in real terms. Interest rates
to end-users would be reviewed periodically by the Government and would be
adjusted, as necessary, to reflect market conditions; the new rates would be
applied to uncommitted funds (Section 3.05(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The gross spread to IGLF-accredited institutions would be 7% for loans to
cottage and small-scale industries and 5% for loans to medium-scale indus-
tries. The PDBs would receive a gross spread of 7% and would principally be
financing cottage and small-scale industries.
65.       Free Limit, Subloan Size, Equity Contribution and Maturity.  Free
limits for DBP-PDBs, DBP-SMI and IGLF would be P 2.5 million, P 3.0
million and P 4.0 million, respectively (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The differences in the free limits reflect the differences in
expected average subloan sizes and the degree to which the Bank desires close
supervision of subproject appraisals. Under the proposed project,



- 22 -
the maximum subloan size! to a single enterprise would be P 5 million
($617,280) to ensure a wide distribution of the Project's funds (Section
2.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). For all subprojects using Bank funds,
a minimum equity contribution of 20% of the total subproject cost would be
required. Working capital loans would have a maximum maturity of seven years,
including a two-year grace period. For fixed asset loans, the maximum
maturity would be 12 years, including a three-year grace period.
66.       Procurement.  Consultants to be financed under the proposed loan
would be employed in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants, August 1981, and their terms of reference would be subject to Bank
approval (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). As equipment (including
vehicles, motorcycles and office equipment) and reference documents to be
financed under the SBAC/MASICAP component (total cost about $1.1 million
including contingencies) is fairly specialized and the contracts to be awarded
are small, international competitive bidding or local competitive bidding
would not be appropriate. As foreign suppliers are well represented in the
Philippines and usually maintain adequate after-sale services, procurement of
such goods would therefore require obtaining quotations from at least three
reliable suppliers (Section 2.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). For the credit
component, DBP and IGLF would ensure that the procurement procedures followed
by end-users to select items to be financed entailed a satisfactory degree of
competition (Section 2.C4 of the draft Loan Agreement); most of the
financial institutions require the borrower to submit at least three
quotations from reliable suppliers. While these procurement procedures are
satisfactory, DBP and IGLF would maintain records of the procurement methods
used for different sizes/types of loans which would be reviewed during regular
project supervision and BSMI would, at the time of claiming disbursements for
equipment, provide the Bank with details of the quotations obtained and the
reasons for the choice of supplier.
67.       Disbursement.  For the credit component, the Bank would finance 60%
of subloans disbursed by DBP and IGLF (equivalent to 45% of the total cost of
subprojects), representing the estimated foreign exchange cost. For the
technical assistance component, the Bank would finance 100% of the direct
foreign exchange cost of imported goods or 60% of the total cost of locally
procured goods, 100% of expenditures on studies, training and consultancy
services under SBAC/MASICAP, and 70% of pilot projects costs. Disbursements
to DBP, IGLF and MTI's pilot projects would be against statements of expendi-
ture, supported by quarterly operational reports satisfactory to the Bank.
DBP's direct lending component of the loan would be disbursed in two tranches
(para. 56). For the technical assistance component, disbursement claims for
equipment, training and consultant fees would be fully documented. When
statements of expenditure are the basis for disbursements, supporting
documentation acceptable to the Bank would be retained by the institutions
concerned until one year after the closing date of the loan (Section 4.02(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.01(b) of the draft Project
Agreement).



- 23 -
68.       Reporting and Audit.  Quarterly progress and operational reports,
acceptable to the Bank, would be provided by DBP, IGLF and MTI.  DBP, IGLF and
the pilot project fund of MTI would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. In addition, an operational audit of DBP's
SMI and DDRB's portfolio would be annually undertaken (Section 3.02(b) of the
draft Project Agreement). Whenever a Statement of Expenditure was the basis
of disbursement, a separate opinion by the auditors certifying that the loan
proceeds were used for the intended purpose would also be undertaken (Section
4.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.02(a)(ii) of the draft
Project Agreement). The accounts of the accredited PDBs, and the IGLF
portfolio of its accredited institutions using the proposed loan proceeds
would be audited annually (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement and
Section 3.07 of the draft Project Agreement).  The results of all audits would
be provided to the Bank.
Benefits and Risks
69.       Benefits.  The proposed project would address the major financial
and technical constraints hindering the development of SMI. In addition to
the needed financial assistance, the technical assistance provided under the
project would foster the structural changes necessary to upgrade the quality
of SMI output in industries where SMI currently predominate, while simul-
taneously fostering the development of SMI in subsectors with growth poten-
tial. The credit component of the loan would significantly increase the
resources available for SMI lending. It is expected that about 2,100 sub-
projects would be financed, which are expected to generate incremental
direct employment of about 32,900 jobs at an expected average cost-per-job
of $8,300. While this average cost-per-job is higher than the average
realized under previous Bank assisted SMI projects (para. 45), due to
inflation and increased financing of medium-scale industries, it is still
reasonable and comparable to other countries of the same economic status.
Since individual subprojects to be financed under the loan are not yet
identified, an ex ante quantification of their economic impact is not
possible. However, under the Bank's past SMI lending the average ex ante
financial rate of return for a sample of subprojects was about 26% and
the economic rate of return was about 42%. Another major benefit which is
expected to result from the project is the strengthening of the institutional
capacity of a wider number of financial institutions to provide development-
oriented term lending. Although difficult to quantify, the technical
assistance provided by SBAC/MASICAP and the alleviation of key production,
technical and marketing constraints facing priority SMI subsectors through
the pilot project mechanism, are expected to have a significant impact on
the growth and productivity of SMI.



- 24 -
70.        Risks.  With respect to the credit component, the financial
requirements of SMI estimated under the project assume a favorable investment
climate and that other funds are not provided to the same sector on more
favorable terms. The only program which could poss:ibly compete with DBP/PDB/
IGLF financing due to below-market interest rates is the KKK (para. 42).
However, the inherent characteristics of KKK-funded projects are significantly
different from those financed with Bank funds and the present expectation is
that this program will not have a major impact on the demand for Bank-funded
SMI loans. As PDBs and DDRB are new clients, there is a risk that the PDB
accreditation program would face teething problems and that progress under
the scheme would be slower or less effective than anticipated. To reduce
the likelihood of this occurrence, DBP has already started reviewing PDBs
for accreditation and it is expected that some PDBs will be accredited prior
to loan effectiveness. In the case of DBP's direct SMI lending, the
problems relating to its SMI operations have been addressed in a detailed
Action Program acceptable to the Bank (para. 56) and a tranching mechanism
has been introduced to ensure prompt implementation.. Finally, the higher
end-user interest rates could discourage accredited institutions from
participating in the project. The appropriateness of interest rates would,
however, be reviewed periodically (para. 64).
71.        The risks associated with the SBAC/MASICAP component are that: the
move from individual entrepreneur counselling to an industry-wide focus might
prove more difficult and time-consuming than anticipated; SBAC/MASICAP might
eventually be merged with NACIDA or other similar agencies, thereby interrup-
ting its work program; and as the premier SMI extension service agency,
demands are placed on SBAC/MASICAP to develop/ administer other Government SMI
programs which might resu'Lt in SBAC/MASICAP neglecting its responsibilities
under the project. To deal with these risks, training and consultancy pro-
grams have been included in the project. In addition, the Bank would be
consulted prior to the functional integration of SBAC/MASICAP with any other
agency, and BSMI and SBAC/MASICAP would have the staff and budgetary resources
necessary to carry out their work program under the project effectively
(para. 38).  The pilot project mechanism is innovative by design and there is
a risk that the pilot projects would not achieve their objectives. Project
approval by the Bank prior to disbursement from MTI's pilot project fund
should, however, provide some safeguard.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.        The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Development
Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(ii:i) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Special conclitions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III. Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government of the Philippines and DBP would be an additional



- 25 -
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Satisfactory progress in carrying out the Action Program would be a condition
for release of the second tranche of the proposed loan funds to DBP for its
direct SMI lending (paragraph 4 of schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By
Attachments                                            Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
May 11, 1982



-26 -                                              ANN  I
TLAPage 1 of 5 pages
TAi3LE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            300.U                                  MOST RECENT           MIDDLE: INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      90.8               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA 6 PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA S CARIBBEAN
vNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  150.0        240.0     600.0                  11:16.1                 1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PEK CAPITA
(KILOGhAMS OF COAL EqUIVALENT)      159.1        292.9     355.9                 1150.6                  1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27372.0       36852.0   46748.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 30.3          32.9      35.8                   40.8                     64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
YOPLLATION I YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        75.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         125.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
eER Sq. KM.                        91.2        122.3     155.8                  373.1                    34.3
PEA SQ. KA. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0        472.0      502.6                 2382.8                    94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.6         45.5      44.3                   39.8                    40.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.4         51.6      52.6                   56.7                    55.3
65 YKS. AND A30VE                    3.0          2.9       3.1                    3.5                     4.0
POPULATIoN GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.7          3.0       2.6                    2.3                     2.4
URBAN                               3.8          3.8       3.6                    3.8                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.7         39.2      34.4                   29.7                     31.4
CRODE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      15.6         10.8       8.2                    7.5                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.3          2.8       2.3                     1.9                     Z.3
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNLAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        191.7     650.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           2.0      37.0                   44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=1-0)          102.0        101.0     114.0                  123.7                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    97.0        102.5     107.7                  112.6                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           45.0         50.0      53.0                   62.5                     65.8
OF WHILE ANIMAL AND PLLSE        17.0         20.0      21.0                   19.7                    34.0
ChILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALlTY RATE      15.6          9.6       6.3                    4.8                     7.6
hEALTh
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT SIRTH (YEARS)    51.0          57.3      61.6                   64.0                     64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            98.0         80.0      65.0                   50.2                     70.9
ACCESS 10 SAFE WATER (PERCENTP OF
POPULATION)
TUTAL                                ..         36.0      43.0                   45.9                     65.7
URBAN                                ..           ..      66.0                   68.0                    79.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      33.0                   3.-4                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                           57.0      59.0                   53.4                    59.9
URBAN                                ..           ..      76.0                   7 .0                    75.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      44.0                   42.4                    30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..           ..    2758.2                 442B.7                   1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSUNG PERSON          ..       3840.0    3115.3                 2229.7                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
1O0TAL                           1134.1        821.8     558.0                  588.5                   471.2
URBAN                             536.2        392.7        ..                  579.6                   558.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                 113B.5
ADMISSIONS PEA hOSPITAL BED             ..        30.0         ..                   36.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.8          5.9
URBAN                                ..          6.2
RURAL                                ..          5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          2.3
URBAN                                ..          2.1
RURAL                                ..          2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              16.5         23.2      36.0
URBAN                                ..         60.4      82.0
RURAL                                *-          6.8      10.0



ANNEX I
- 27 -                                       Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PIIILIPPINES                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEIAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCA'1 DON
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PKLRMAK:     TUTAL                 95.0       114.0      105.0                   99.8                    101.7
MALE                  98.0       115.0      102.0                  100.6                    103.0
FEMALE               93.0        113.0     107.0                   98.8                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 26.0        50.0       56.0                   53.5                     35.3
MiALE                 28.0        59.0      65.0                   58.4                     34.9
FEMALE               25.0         42.0      47.0                   48.6                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (i OP SECONDARY)  15.0            ..      34.0                   21.1                     30.1
PLPIL-TEAELkR RATIO
PRIMAKY                            36.0        29.0       31.0                   34.2                     29.6
SECONDARY                          27.0        33.0       36.0                   31.7                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY SATE (PERCENT)        71.9         82.6      88.4                   86.5                     80.0
LONSLMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         7.6        8.9                   12.7                     42.6
RADlO RECElVERS PER ThOUSAND
POPULATION                         21.9        46.6       43.5                  174.1                    215.0
TV RECELIVEkS PEK THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4         10.9      19.1                   50.6                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEkEST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  17.0         13.6      21.2                  106.8                     62.8
LlNEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6            ..       7.6                    4.3                      3.2
LAbOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FPRKC (THOUSANDS)    10893.2       13478.1   16608.5
FPIALE 'PERCENT)                  34.4        33.1       32.3                   37.4                     22.6
AUOKICULTURE (PERCENT)             61.0         53.0      46.7                   50.2                     35.0
NIJhUSTRY (PERCENT)                15.2        16.0       16.9                   21.9                     23.2
PARIiOIPATION KATL (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.8         36.6      35.5                   40.2                     31.8
M1ALE                                52.1         48.6      47.6                   49.8                     49.0
FEMALE                               27.4        24.4       23.2                   31.1                     14.6
ECONOIIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2          1.3       1.3                    1.1                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        25.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         54.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         5.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEItOLDS     ..         14.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMIATED ABSOLLTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     260.0/c
RUkAL                                ..           ..     195.oTc                193.7                   187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (1,b PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     266.0/c                   ..                   513.9
KURAL                                ..           ..     200.O1c                234.3                   362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERIY INCOflE LLVEL (PERCENT)
UKBAN                                ..           ..      32.0/c
RURAL                                ..           ..      41.07T                 32.2.
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   195U.
Revised
June, 1981



ANNX I
- 28 -                                                                           Page 3of 5pages
DEFINTtIONS OF SOCIAL itiClATORS
Notete;Ol1ttooh the dote atldol             oe    lte    enerly !doded th   ot oo1,ts   adclal    ittool   olobe  tex ,oldo   they saY tot be  ate
neholyoapaehle he_ia_ of  he lack of  ,. dto ieOead dfritos d toacepa                    . deedbl ifrc         otesi   olctgtedta                    h   aaae   os
oaefeloodeatocho  ordea ci ooer.iecde, tooicaine ne-ads, sod    erot      --e erto  dej- d iffereaces    I.- le dcoo-aeise.
Thce       ...e noo  e.a  It. the  aexeto-.onttpn..r... t. -ebhdtoaoootnhay PI 9 atoxtiny  gocip -cheosaltigheeao-tgexocosan hetthecoa-tcrgeld,
tf the collct coxothy   exp   o     CxeltpieOil                        hpnea"sopele"MdleooeNrt  Afrc  ado Mddle East' is choe ..                   ecabxe,e of st..onger
sot-otnlaff.lciese     Tn the refeteoce t.        dtot  the- attgee ar"     exaiosiheIntnt   sn   Otec   o  xeraa   bo   a ee
sa taln  of theceohe       cta ...eP tea date fortht lOioan%or.   hcootntgIfoet  e  esooIdc  abs fl o I'alon                              deedeo     hnt -aoalehi,      fft
dod tac'. cotoce, ca.itov  oat ha  oenolad  It tl etlceoe-gea  of ... iad ioecc to enohec-  Th-tdeeaeeaeonlI                  st,  oteprn   h    tt    f
o-eiodccoctrooooooIllettgohenccir, cyidnefettoe   nope
lai   d lt_otoseod et rea.Poloo  pot   ceit-l tat  coi, ocht, coo  -cel -   .c....... (toal
Eoeal-fotalaotfaceenea  coctxtio5letd  aeeaic.dxilstatane.                               oelban,sdntrsdildoocdelbyhl        eey    ecoi1, e ehp nbac  ofto1,  itelede
hoIstd  by  ane tovonsct neted i  tol Idcx    ta   l9cl           elxeis    96,antalOayt m   old Prenaenlp etelfe   byepeihcdxch 
190,ol  91   it.                                                                                ettleaitet  ahe  edcl,ea.)ogo   otenloyttoeccc
for   Pe II   k~~~l  Id kild.,d. galdel, ordetoctaodipoolde:a ;tted79sdeoof.nedte.. f.                                             c      ..tte ...Pt etenle
doteld crlytcc    ld-eer Ithcoend  I    ac   iy1   90  11,al11                                     000
face.                                                                                               cnetcato 7oetd   ccto   e  h.a.cl..                        cbl cecalcori
hycen Pocoetccv  lcocor. cf   on-al -Iaoyfotacc   celcplcit                                      h'cehcl   cotene.fIl.  ...cge of dicdtvdoel  o-lcshane liigor             etn
rorolcorloc icyby eta ed ooo  Id tocyacOol    o I  odteiloraes                           doeldtotal  te-accivelly.       !. nehoerc.etvo-receeneocteonecreae
leel   kivd feect   tccoohtl thxitlttca              1960, 1970        19oet9                  fccoctocc idciOdeotholeocrxccnyd  ac,,e ioxoyg              d   ..ecerta
nsterlorfttlltyceeetso'ococtoo   locs asaoiceehlietc                      tccr l,cta   andrlont ~lc-oItllocstetrofttceor
tectt. Oio ccicleo    oyaft-etloc   ae    elitt                                       re     achol-ac   poclco oof cIsIx   tocxoote choh necetetc-I
cooccostt   oct y.nb e-olco    tcetcso   t                                                         ocnovt   .noco  aftott-c hcdtt-co  er ehted10reo
lot  ehOtodtntodytortilioynaoe "ltvrsptted -                                             tertatvahol-to                ... dalnadfslnd-Iospxtd            tsbxe;--eoditn
vebin,              96tcoyocoocc   c  ecc      heve,0c  eoc70tvatyccrcucdtrn                           rtveld-aclore         ccccol  o        eye    nticiarcta   o    et
Pttcleotco tiaxdoldhc                          t-i,              "l y l,.                     delcieded.              ey. -1he-,.e-                     r..  l                 .
eceale-a1991  1910           dlel~il             Illa"          1t erA:                   AllNtori  Iod ide ttbcca,  ii ctya-   onthb roces   hitpece nd                     pa
fe,           e1 Ies.oort'io ell-Coo-pctodeee-b  tte      7~ fctc rxoclThcied t-ooC"    Iyoteee.a....  Ifecodc   laItxetiooe.
cor; 10,911   ev.l 1919l  ldot.Peii-ececotx    edey.cdaaedalOee   to-t Inllfi
Pr alnntxi  Soxocevect  - 1tlld tree l0-Itrce  .              oko-rgt 1.5                         racedeodcylnsdcodb   xnaeo   tcesi   h
cohex.a.e.. coI.o .h.        heitst        tho... dis-cocn-g-iootl-pacororo                          rctprdcftole
tattoo   190   1911,    Id 11  dare. r                                                        Mo In tct  cane nolln  I, -. tttactts-dril     lotieecad                td ri.
--loe    or 190-Of  iit0  v0hiend 90-19.                                                     Peessaer Can 1tcr  boceso  rse1tniaa9    yeasts g""   llil,11er cae cep_ie   6ac11
trod   conc  cent  ott alc'lofad  -  onelt     lOt 'rh    e   housand ofai- ea                      rn   eeot.  lestII cla,sgtetxeec loftsh  ise dOnet                  .seae  a
ptyelatooc: 19(0, x910, ivO  1919 dste .                                            exlio....sryo.etlncieda.1   -od
Ced  ec lae p0--  -boe.l   el         deathsT ~  9c het   ds yil ofod-ac                     aioOceor          frntistd" oxt'lcaNl - Ill ftypes ofnxsocsfe  ai
Iotlhraes -    actx   co-er 2000              vet  O   90,110   n all9.hsoar coontiea eboliced                                          el flacin . 1     ,:       lb.       lld,
Feslloylnotto-lotytcteoc...sl.tv                ...cilitxt l ateer  of aceec                 fteaoy    cettsooveain-                               Co.ct    obrecae
POle 00100OellR-Olftc-b-"dlly  tftId eeilat  ottoeaek
Ina  o   cle rod9tc,  ye70 C-d c 19   O-LOI  7Metfpeccycc"oxi                                    ixce ledooxe-htndecccartecea-ae     ooinheoosleof
nledqoco  of oIl' Itod  coacdloee   rho,Idolo ab- lfdrs teed- od- fel sod                            -lcoet   sodcxcao0 th   ;ec  in-ldtn.          diaioodte-nyea
tee ace exctudedl.  ocoroceto  y Idocillro of 1 ycototr    -Iaibae  on                LAtOR noocnI  d~d.   b   dibl.oft.t.r                                             h
rahtl--       oeoooerpIe  excc;Illt,190   ndll  dc79x.                                            Totall'thor n-nte rtolescntel) - ccootcolyl  actioc nenloot.  tocld .-it.c
... evceeclhctlotc\ totaloo o-  leoc-ethrta-tofe totalfyoo                                           aced  Eorp--odg enpofp-edholeaolidio5outatetie                       d ctf st.r.
pe fd:.loelbocple    oytecne,.po-tlc  tav0o60a 1960                                            cot vcep197bt7; 190,11-ed11  dccc
toeNith-   -    lotph    oeio,xd   ae,icdatlbvto e-ce                                     Ierclcxce  Ircco _        Ih c 1oo  foco  It. foso,fh-cy   bic   tad
oexecetsttyotaeoovtlccledaootect-taiieyrth5    foolebtori-Ac ;ltlOclnd99e
tcextcd  ltot  Oth-tO   xil    r0001 dccxh .                                                         1910 todidY.l  ..   .e d the. 1      1,11,           t,            .    -        I
doctontt   tt  t  ht-otges sattababo   by daihl- phvie ion  beerxox                                  paca.nd.  e-ee -cfcons)  tle end II..tdII pyneanio hof  l  e             eoftlinsp
Iltatoo  9   reac  noet.I I rcoc  e  dh,  y co'do idpeoscceef....   xccIi90.t 11,                           01    fce.,cesabae   on olt beattictbatictraes
lee pI 'c. t,.    f atc  10-' Yrit,     hd bl   e ei    pnoi .  Oleasen-                            eficctdo     eeet           didoro   thi ooltat:n   osaiantl 
1yedfro   c-il c--  (pulcea   I  trea  pr  do.    ; 1961-00t191  en  1911 lets                  do0ff oI-tROhloa .   Ier              g-Ii'o        t
Cild  coa  1hi-bltfttlitng  geo  lcnr'                                     de,nl  d-oa  dehsct  hotro In Pernoeec       PIdio   Otoc  Ihoo...  io paab cdoO  A btol-  thceict  Er.  ricet
actesteaccecOel con Ife  cbtee;1961  19f  soc  icO  lec.                   oficosaholfe-.       l             I   e-1i  do.                .~    ed..ie
en    ofo;190  1910 sodz d e.Io-   -ed.ed 191l(tadcdfboid d                                                    nonyend    ihc'lootidere  le reitc.I   t_
ofae -e ,hvccdio  lytts                                                                    Ahdtobloorctnccd Iecl ilcht  ncleeine  be-s-hay asicsc
oceascaf   xrhtorao                     of .cootoc    co.  'ohr, icO bortd                              F.R.- 
otnofocoplo    old, cchxo,eorctlviotteeaxce1iecote-enpe-fe                                   ffonddiig
txIoer..p ......        coaed  cfsastoec                  o     ltcdbo o1 coctaxtane             tctxs1oed0bieeiveooch40000...s   c)  etcis    uneedrnI
ooetoooilottvapvooiehcehle, `ocff                             Cdescteda r.-I1roxtee             onlaoiepod er IcboIco ..oeltaica-h. -i-dx                      -c d-g.retaite
peohecceas of thorrespetsct coholocto.  I.il ani hcrcpht                                 coceocaooeoney I-rratPeceitsi  de-i-oIdf.ostbror te
eoecele        boeotostotettt   tooaenfe iieoe                 rscnbcxecbot                        lotxct-entotypoxinltlela   a.ducxdxoot"tctoo
coldeh.taoet of ottgOt taeret'.dte popolcodooe.tOnttore-Ittyodag ecr-ioc19de
obecolleyclccenldcepcoel.  eottonItb      ocaoc,fbocareenccncvooo:aeanae
Fcc  -irtell ,1    f    -hC,,    t    ,)                        -e.    fPr,iiocca.                                                                          cayl 17,1  1691 i-i       
raooiolcv  er Pcsicio  - Ppxlscco dvodo  If  rus er  f practicIng  %Phya-                                               t       l  .7          e       o.Ib            .
cOostxltid   roe  eyyl  chct0   Ioxotanoyiioe
Pocolctoc rn tortaa Yrtco -Pootltlrn  icide   by tel to  f preclcAr
accto ""oox  itadcit  nuses,ytoetcl tosos  an



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                                  Annual growth rates (7)
current prices)                        Actual                                        Projected
Indicator                             1979            1976    1977      1978    1979      1980/a   1981      1982    1983    1984       1985     1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product             28,854            7.1      6.2      5.9      5.9      4.7       5.8      6.3      6.3      6.3      7.1      8.3
Agriculture                       6,991            8.6      5.0      4.8      5.3      4.3       5.2      5.2      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0
Industry                        10,174           10.0       7.7     6.4       6.7      5.8       6.5      7.2      7.5      7.5      8.5    10.0
Services                        11,689             3.7      5.7      6.3      5.5      5.0       5.6      6.2      6.0      6.0      7.0      8.5
Consumption                        21,860            4.3      5.2      4.6      4.8      4.2       5.4      5.2      4.9      5.1      5.      7.0
Gross investment                    8,576            8.0      0.7    13.3       7.4      4.8       6.3      6.3      6.3      6.3      7.1      8.3
Exports of GNFS /b                  5,528           19.9    17.6       1.6      7.4    11.3       10.2    10.7    11.2    10.6    10.8    10.5
Imports of GN1FS                    7,110            1.3      5.3    13.2    10.3        5.2       6.6      6.7      6.5      6.6      6.8      7.2
Gross national savings              6,665           -2.0    11.3       8.3      7.7      3.1       -        -        -        -        -        -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 = 100)                          183.6   198.8   210.6   250.8    296.9          -        -        -        -        -        -
Exchange rate (US$1 -)                              7.45     7.41     7.38     7.39      7.52      -        -        -        -        -        -
Export price index (1978 = 100)                     92.6    95.8   100.0   124.6    140.3   149.9   160.0   170.5   183.3   195.7   258.7
Import price index (1978 = 100)                     91.6    94.2   100.0   117.4    142.2   157.0   170.8   185.2   197.1   210.6   289.3
Terms of trade index (1978 = 100)                  101.1   101.7   100.0   106.1         98.7    95.5    93.7    92.6    93.0    92.9    89.4
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                         Average annual increase (7)
(at current prices) /c                                   (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980        1985    1990       1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0               5.1        6.1        5.9        6.3         7.6
Agriculture                        28.1    27.8    29.0    26.8    25.0    22.0              4.3         4.3        4.8        5.0        5.0
Industry                           25.8    29.6    33.5    35.5    37.7    40.6              6.0         8.6        7.6        7.5        9.1
Services                           46.1    42.6    37.5    37.7    37.3    37.4              5.2         5.4        5.7        6.1        7.7
Consumption                        85.3    79.2    75.8    74.5    72.4    68.7              4.8         5.5        5.2        5.2        6.5
Gross investment                   16.3    21.5    31.0    30.1    29.2    30.5              8.2        11.5        6.5        6.8        7.6
Exports of GNFS                    10.8    19.4    18.5    19.4    24.7    27.5              5.8         3.2       10.0       10.7       10.0
Imports of GNFS                    10.6    19.7    25.3    24.0    26.2    25.4              6.8        6.8         8.C        6.6        6.9
Gross national savings             16.2    20.5    25.3    23.1    25.4    29.2              7.4         9.7        -          -          -
As 7 of CDP
1960       1970       1975       1980          Labor Force tn 1978           Millions    (7)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                  Agriculture                   7.4       44.4
Current revenues                             9.8        9.5       13.9        12.8           Industry                       2.7       16.2
Current expenditures                         9.6       10.9       12.3         9.6           Services                       5.6       33.0
Current surplus                              0.2       -1.4         1.6        4.1           Unemployed                     1.1        6.4
Capital expenditure                          2.3        1.9         3.2        3.2
Foreign financing                            -          0.1        0.3         1.5                Total Labor Force        16.8      100.0
1960-70           1970-75           1975-80           1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (N)                                    5.1               5.6               5.9               6.3               7.7
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (7)                         2.0               2.7               3.2               3.6               5.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (1)                     7.4               6.2               4.2               4.7               4.6
ICOR                                                          4.5               4.7               4.6               4.5               4.1
Marginal savings rate                                       0.285             0.330              0.26              0.32              0.35
Import elasticity                                            1.33              1.12              1.20              1.05              0.90
/a  Preliminary estimate.
7b  Historical figures are official estimates based on 1972 weights.  In relation to the composition of Philippine exports
in the late 1970s these estimates give undue weight to stable or declining exports of raw commodities such as copra,
sugar, and logs, and insufficient weight to rapidly growing exports such as nontraditional manufactures and coconut oil.
Bank staff estimates of export volume based on 1978 weights are shown on Attachment 3b.
/c Projected years of constant prices.
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
November 1981



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ million, at current Prices)
Actual                E:st.              Projected
1977   1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services              4,161   4,838   6,177   7,863   9,084  10,710  12,830  15,360  18,370
Of which:  exports of goods              3,151   3,425   4,602   5,788   6,518   7,890   9,630  11,710  14,220
Imports of goods and services              5,248   6,323   8,108  10,348  12,076  13,680  15,620  17,820  20,210
Of which:  imports of goods              3,915   4,732   6,142   7,727   8,810  10,050  11,510  13,170  15,100
Transfers (net)                              260      312      355      434      500      550      610      660     730
Current Account Balance                   -827  -1,173  -1,576  -2,051  -2,490  -2,420  -2,180  -1,800  -1,110
Direct investment (net)                      216      171       99       45      290      320      350      390     420
MLT loans (net)                              662      891   1,091   1,032   1,370   1,600   1,540   1,310           920
official-source loans (net)                332      333      449      375     851      940   1,050   1,120   1,150
Private-source loans (net)                 330      501      642      657     519      660      490       90    -230
Other capital (net) /a                       113       56    -193       593      455      300      300     300      300
overall Balance /b                         164      -54    -579    -381    -375    -200            -     200      530
International reserves (end-year) /_   1,525   1,883   2,423   3,155
Reserve as months of imports                 3.5      3.6      3.6      3.7
External Capital and Debt
Gross Disbursements                        1,376   1,968   2,385   2,047
Concessional Loans                          88      120      183      178
Bilateral                                 62       56      113     101
IDA                                        2        1        3        2
Other multilateral                        24       63       67       75
Nonconcessional Loans                    1,287   1,848   2,202   1,869
Official export credits                  123      121      152        8
IBRD                                      99      160      204     221
Other multilateral                        30       47       81      83
Private sources                        1,035   1,520   1,765   1,557
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed           5,003   6,199   7,137   8,554
Official-source                        1,423   1,895   2,265   2,710
Private-source                         3,580   4,304   4,872   5,844
Undisbursed debt                         2,601   4,017   4,305   5,476
Debt Service
Total service payments                     762      910   1,028   1,259
Of which:  interest                      183      270      486     659
Payments as % of exports of goods
and services                            18.3    18.8    16.6    16.0
Average interest rate on new loans
Official-source                            7.5      5.5      5.5      6.9
Private-source (DRS)                       8.4      9.0    10.5    14.7
Average maturity of new loans
Official-source                           18.6    22.8    23.3    21.2
Private-source (DRS)                       9.0    10.2    11.1        9.9
/a  Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
lb Equals change in net international reserves.
7h  Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves," IFS).
East Asia and Pacific Region
November 1981



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 18 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of March 31, 1982
Loan or
Credit                                                                       Amount (less cancellations)
Number      FY    Borrower                 Purpose                           Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-six Loans and three credits fully disbursed                           485.82  32.20
984-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation             9.50              0.16
998-PH   1974                             DBP I                              50.00              0.43
1034-PH   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                  61.00              0.51
1035-Pa   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                             25.00              7.83
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                      17.00              2.87
1102-PM   1975                             Rural Development                  25.00              4.88
1154-PH    1976          "Magat Irrigation                                    42.00              5.81
1190-PH   1976                             DBP II                             75.00              1.29
1224-T-PH 1976                             Education III                      24.73              2.23
1227-PH   1976                             Chico Irrigation                   50.00             25.80
1272-T-PH 1976                             Manila Urban                       10.00              2.99
1282-PH   1976                             Manila Urban                       22.00              6.58
1269-PH   1977                             Second Grain Processing            11.50              4.04
1353-PH   1977                             Third Highways                     95.00             44.98
1367-PH1  1977                             Jalaur Irrigation                  15.00              5.55
1374-PiH  1977                             Fourth Education                   25.00              6.64
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the         Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                                 36.50             i2.30
1414-PH    1977 Rep. of the Philip.        Nat. Irrig. Syst. Iaprovmt.    50.00                 30.25
1415-PH   1977                             Provincial Cities Water Sup.   23.00                  7.89
1421-PH   1977                             Rural Dev. Land Stlmt. II          15.00              6.93
1460-PA   1978 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                          58.00             30.63
1506-PMl  1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Smallholder Tree Farming            8.00              5.90
1514-PM   1978 Philip. National Bank   PDCP V                                 30.00              5.15
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvat. II 65.00                 48.30
790-PH   1978                             Rural Infrastructure                      28.00    21.09
5.8-PU1   1978                            Education                           2.00              0.88
1547-PHl  1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification                  60.00              1.05
1555-PMl  1978 Philip. National Bank   PISO                                   15.00              1.05
1567-PMl   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Magat II                          150.00             22.97
1572-PH   1978                             Industrial Investment III          80.00             25.20
1615-PH    1979          "Manila Water Supply II                              88.00             78.14
1626-PH   1979                             National Extension                 35.00             30.10
1639-PH   1979                             Magat River Multipurpose           21.00             14.22
1646-PH   1979                             Small Farmer Dev. (Land Bank)  16.50                 10.12
1647-Pl1   1979                            Second Urban Development           32.00             21.65
1661-Pil  1979                             Highways IV                       100.00             97.44
1710-PIl  1979                             Water Supply II                    16.00             16.00
920-PH    1979                            Water Supply II                            22.00     19.17
1727-PH   1979                             Small & Medium Industry II         25.00              0.36
923-PH   1979                             Population II                              40.00     39.30
1772-PHl   1980                            Samar Island Rural Deves.          27.00             23.92
1786-PH    1980                            Fisheries Trng. (Educ. VI)         38.00             37.31
1809-PH   1980                             Medium-Scale Irrigation            71.00            67.06
1814-PH    1980          "Manila Sewerage & Sanitation    63.00                                 57.18
1815-PH   1980                             Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)   12.00                 11.21
1821-PH   1980                             Third Urban                        72.00             60.59
1855-PH   1980                             Third Ports                        67.00             65.11
1860-PH    1980                            Rural Roads Improvement            62.00             57.86
1890-PM    1981                            Watershed Management               38.00             36.48
1894-PH   1981                             Third Livestock & Fisheries    45.00                 33.90
1903-PH   1981                             Structural Adjustment             200.00              3.96
1984-PH   1981  Central Bank of the    Industrial Finance (Apex)             150.00            149.88
Philippines
2030-PHl  1981  Rep. of the Philip.    Elem. Educ. Sector Loan               100.00            100.00
2040-P1l   1982  Rep. of the Philip.    Ag. Support Services                  45.00             44.97
2067-PH/a 1982  Rep. of the Philip.    Urban Engineering                       8.00              8.00
Total                                                                 2,967.55 122.20 1,546.57
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                              236.50
Total now outstanding                                                 2,731.05 122.20
Amount sold                                               24.34
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                        23.06            1.28   -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                                2,729.77 122.20
Total undisbursed                                                     1,346.55  79.56 1,426.11
/a Noc yet effective.



- 32 -                   ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1982
Fiscal                                                         Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                            Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the           15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967         Mlanila Electric Company                          8.0      -       8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                   -        4.0      4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone               3.7       .8      4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                      0.8      0.4      1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the               -       2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                  6.2      2.1     8.3
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial                15.0      -       15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                   1.9      0.3      2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation            1.5      -        1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.6            0.6      2.2
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation                 1.2      -        1.2
1975          Philippine Pclyamide Industrial                  7.0      -        7.0
Corporation
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                        2.6      0.2      2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                       2.3      1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                       3.5      -        3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1           -        2.1
1979          General Milling Corporation                      4.0      1.1      5.1
1980          PISO Leasing Corporation                         5.0      0.1      5.1
1980          Ventures in Industry and Business                -        0.3      0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980          Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.              4.5      -        4.5
1981          Loans to Seven Corp. for SMSE                   18.5       .7    19.2
1981          Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp. -             5.0      5.0
1981          Davao Union Cement Corp.                        16.0      -       16.0
Total gross commitments                       120.4    23.4   143.8
Less sold, acquired by others,               53.5    12.6    66.1
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC              66.9    10.8    77.7
Total Undisbursed                              34.5      0.8    35.3



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
as of March 31, 1982
Agricultural Sector
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
The project was completed on December 31, 1981 and preparation of
the Completion Report is well under way. Work on the Canili and Diayo dams
and the transbasin canal was completed in 1975, about one year ahead of
schedule. However, difficulties in the award of construction contracts
delayed the start of improvement works in the Penaranda service areas which
were further hampered by severe typhoon damages in 1978 and 1980. Due to cost
increases, delays in construction and reduced cropping intensity resulting
from the overall shortage of water in the Upper Pampanga River Irrigation
System, the internal rate of return is expected to be considerably lower than
the appraisal estimate of 17%. The last consignments of O&M equipment are
being delivered.
Loan No. 1080  Tarlac Irrigation, $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975,
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1975; Closing Date;
June 30, 1982
The project is now about 90% complete. Full completion is expected
by December 1982, a two-year delay in the original schedule, caused mainly by
managerial problems and late preparation of the designs for the drainage
works. The closing date has already been extended by one and a half years to
June 30, 1982, and it is expected that the Government will request a further
extension to complete the project works. The area developed is likely to be
some 20% less than originally planned, mainly because of flooding from the
Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers. Costs are higher than anticipated, partly
due to the delays referred to above, and the economic rate of return is now
likely to be close to 10% compared with an appraisal estimate of 15%.
Loan No. 1102 Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall project execution is well advanced. The irrigation works
are substantially completed, except for two communal systems which are planned
for completion by the end of 1982. After initial delays in the award of
construction contracts for the roads component, progress in project execution
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
has now improved with the mobilization of contractors on three national and
one provincial road contracts. Completion of the roads component is now
planned for mid-1983, about three years behind the appraisal schedule. The
closing date has therefore been extended to December 1983.
Loan No. 1154 Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Civil works by local contract and force acount for rehabilitation
and new construction of canals, drains and access roads are progressing well,
and the project is over 90% complete. All contracts have now been awarded,
but some of the work has been postponed until the end of the rainy season.
The water management training is continuing satisfactorily. Due to earlier
delays in contract award, budgetary constraints and typhoon damage in 1980,
project completion is expected to be delayed by about two years over the
original schedule of June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1227 Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976, Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Although the project was scheduled for completion in June 1980, it
is now only about 54% complete. Work started slowly due to late procurement
of equipment for force account work. Further delays were caused by: changes
in design which resulted in rebidding the three major contracts for the
diversion dam, the main canal and the river siphon; severe and repeated
typhoon damage; and problems of right-of-way acquisition. Work on the
diversion dam was suspended for over four months because of security problems
in the area. Tthe project is now scheduled for compleation in June 1984, a
four-year delay over the appraisal estimate, and the closing date has
therefore been extended to December 31, 1984. Towaris the end of 1981, in
an effort to accelerate project implementation, the National Irrigation
Administration created a special task force, reorgan:ized and strengthened the
project organization and brought in additional equipment and materials.
Loan No. 1269 Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976, Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan is fully committed and the closing date is expected to be
met. The loan has disbursed rapidly since the end of 1980 after a slow
beginning which led to a two-year postponement of thes closing date to June 30,
1983. The post-harvest study on grain losses is expected to be
completed in early 1982.



- 35 -                   ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
Loan No. 1367 Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is about 85% complete. Remaining major construction
activities include the improvement of the Santa Barbara diversion dam by
contract, the repairs of the existing right bank of the Jalaur diversion dam,
and on-farm facilities, including some additional works by force account. The
National Irrigation Administration expects to complete all construction works
by the end of July 1982. The Government intends to use the anticipated
balance of $4 million for the detailed engineering of the Jalaur multipurpose
storage dam for Stage II of the project. A draft feasibility report is being
reviewed by the Bank.
Loan No. 1399 Fourtlh Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The escalation in fuel and machinery costs during 1978 and 1979,
accompanied by a sharp fall in sugar prices, substantially reduced the subloan
demand, particularly for four-wheel tractors, power tillers and light trucks.
Another major problem has been the growing arrears of several rural banks
resulting in many of them being ineligible for project lending. To compensate
for this, in November 1979, the project's scope was broadened to include new
categories of investments and new lending channels (private development
banks); however, their impact on the disbursement rate has been modest.
Effective January 1982, the institutional arrangements for project imple-
mentation have been further widened to include private investment corporations
to lend, on a selective basis, for project-supported investments. The lending
terms have also been suitably rationalized. As a result, the pace of subloan
commitments is expected to accelerate; however, the undisbursed balance of the
loan ($12.8 million) may not be fully utilized by the extended closing date of
December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1414 National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to shortage of
staff and design problems at the outset, which caused delays in the finaliza-
tion of designs and preparation of bidding and contract documents for the
Abulog diversion dam and drainage works in Leyte. Shortages of fuel and
construction materials, which initially caused major delays, were eventually
overcome. Implementation improved in 1979 as a result of better planning and
organization and less complicated contract procedures. However, project
execution was severely delayed in 1980 and 1981 due to inadequate and, in
certain cases, late release of counterpart funds. Corporate funds have now
been approved, and in part released, for the 1982 construction program. Final
project costs and benefits are expected to be in line with original estimates.
Project benefits may be lower than estimated due to inadequate water,
particularly in Region 1. The project is now expected to be completed in
December 1984, about three years behind the appraisal estimate.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
Loan No. 1421 Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Mill:ion Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A Cabinet subcommittee has been appointed to examine proposals for a
public land management polLicy emerging from an interagency workshop held in
August 1981. Feasibility studies have been completed for two of the three
settlements proposed for a follow-on Bank-financed project. Satisfactory
progress is being made in land allocation and titling and project infra-
structure; however, some titling and infrastructure works are expected to
extend beyond the current loan closing date. A recent promising start has
been made on the credit program and this should gather momentum.  Progress in
the agricultural development component has been promising, as reflected in the
adoption by settlers of improved techniques, in the extent of areas now under
cultivation, and in reported improved yields.  The reforestation component of
the project has, however, been neglected. In view of the status of some
project components, the Government is expected to request an extension of the
loan closng date by twelve months, to December 31, 1983.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholde-r Tree Farming and Forestry Project;
$80.0 Mill-ion Loan of January 23, 19,78; Date of Effectiveness:
May 11, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Physical progress on the DBP tree farming component continues to be
satisfactory, and area commitments have reached approximately 82% of the
project's target. The BFD pine plantation component at Abra has been
seriously affected by insect attack resulting in the need to reconsider plans
for development and to initiate work on pest control measures and the use of
alternative tree species. The PCARR forestry research program is progressing
well and the draft Wood Industries Development Study has been submitted to
the Ministry of Natural Resources. Disbursement continues to be behind
schedule, principally because of procurement difficulties over vehicles,
infrastructure and equipment.
Loan No. 1526 Second Nat:ional Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Topographic surveys, planning and design f-or most of the project
works have been completed and construction is under way. Overall implementa-
tion progress is slow due to delays in finalizing the design for diversion
works and drainage systems in Regions 9 and 12, slow bureaucratic processes in
bidding and award of contracts, and inadequate and belated release of
counterpart funds in 1981.,  Corporate funds have now been approved for the
1982 construction season, and the project is expected to be completed in 1985.



- 37 -                      ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Credit No. 790 Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction of rural water supply systems and health stations is
proceeding satisfactorily with about 360 water wells and 53 health stations
now completed.  The construction of San Jose Port is expected to be completed
by mid-1983, allowing for the repair of typhoon damages. Work has progressed
well at the port of Culasi, but completion is delayed due the continuing
settlement of the storage platform. Construction of Dumaguit port is behind
schedule, as is construction of the irrigation components which were held up
by inadequate support facilities, ineffective farmer organizations and failure
of farmers to collaborate with project staff. However, remedial measures have
now improved the situation and the service area has been increased to about
10,400 ha. About 35 km of roads have been constructed through force account,
construction contracts have been awarded for 300 km of roads and the detailed
design of the remaining roads is well under way. The total length of village
roads has been reduced from the appraisal estimate of 1,390 km to about 1,200
km. Project completion is now planned for December 1984, about two years
behind the appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1567 Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is good. The first stage of river diversion has been
successfully achieved and excavation is substantially complete. Construction
of the main dam is making excellent progress. Concrete work for the spillway
started slowly and suffered from interruptions due to breakdown of the cranes,
but the contractor has made up for lost time and is once more nearly on sche-
dule. Work on resettlement of the population to be displaced by the reservoir
is excellent, with work on one of the three new villages nearly complete. The
project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1626 National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
After a slow start due to the reorganization within the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA), the project is being further delayed by management and
financial constraints.  Implementation in the regions is now the
responsibility of the Regional Directors, and performance varies depending on
the motivation of the Director. The Minister of Agriculture has now been
requested to ensure that Regional Directors are fully conversant with the
Project-s objectives. The influence of the Project Manager - the Director of
the Bureau of Agricultural Extension - has been reduced since his agency
become a staff bureau. A shortage of local funds during the latter half of
1981 affected progress detrimentally. Procurement problems persist, as it is
unlikely that the President-s Office will allow the import of the full quota
of vehicles designated for the project because of their increased cost and
drain on limited fuel resources. MOA will request that surplus vehicle funds



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
be used for other purposes, including additional motorcycles and visual aid
materials, and increased travel and gasoline allowances for all field
technicians. This request is expected to be received by the end of June 1982
and will be reviewed at the next supervision scheduled later in the year.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of
Effect-iveness.  April 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Implementation started early in 1980 and progress is generally
satisfactory. All major contracts have been awarded and some are ahead of
schedule. All construct-ion equipment has been procured and delivered to site.
Completion is now expected by the end of 1984, eighteen months behind the
appraisal estimate. The major constraint is the overall shortage of local
funds which is being carefully considered by the Government.
Loan No. 1646  Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness; April 25, 1979,
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The pace of sub-loan disbursements to small farmers continues to be
slow due to LBP-s cautious approach to lending resulting from poor
collections under past sub-loans and to the delay in the reorganization of
field offices caused by belated government approvalL of LBP's proposals. In
addition, there has been a backlog in loan withdrawals in respect of
disbursements to second priority (non-agrarian reform) beneficiaries. The
field office reorganization and and other institution development measures
are, however, expected to be carried out in near future. Procedural
difficulties which held up withdrawals under the iinfrastructure component have
also been resolved, and the line agencies have started sub-project
implementation. The disbursements under the infrastructure component are
expected to start in May 1982.   The loan is expected to be fully drawn by
December 31, 1983, an 18-month delay over the appraisal estimate of June 30,
1982.
Loan No. 1772  Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bidding on road construction has been delayed due to political
disturbances on the island. Port work is proceeding satisfactorily but the
irrigation program has been delayed due to withdrawal of one of the sites
because of technical objections by the settlers. Alternative sites are now
being reviewed by the Bank. The construction of village wells is progressing
satisfactorily, and a pump maintenance problem was corrected by providing
specialized service tools under the project. The formation of water users'
associations, and the collection of water charges, have begun slowly but are
gaining momentum. The program of schistosomiasis control is proceeding on
schedule, as is the Catubig Valley development study.



- 39 -                      ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Loan No. 1809 Medium-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The consultants engaged to develop the design of the dams have now
started compiling design and construction standards for irrigation structures
and facilities.  However, detailed engineering design of the diversion dams
is behind schedule due to unavailability of drilling rigs to conduct sub-
surface investigations.  Force account works have been started.  Construction
contracts have been awarded for three of the 12 major contract works.  Diffi-
cult working conditions in the project areas and inadequate communications
facilities have resulted in poor response to invitations for competitive
bidding from prospective contractors. This is likely to cause further delays
in the implementation schedule.
Loan No. 1815 Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
In spite of the complexity of the project, the Ministry of Agri-
culture's project management is making fair progress. The multi-agency set-up
of this project requires close financial monitoring, which needs further
improvement. The 1981 wet season multiple cropping target of 6,000 ha under
the Kabsaka methodology has been achieved. For the success of the coming 1982
wet season target of 16,000 ha, much will depend on the effectiveness of the
farmers' training sessions, the selection of farmer leaders and the mobility
of the field staff. The mobility of the coordinating management staff has now
improved with the provision of new vehicles funded through the National
Extension Project. The project has not to date been able to purchase its own
vehicles due to restrictions imposed by the Presidential Office. Several
project components are seriously affected by the inadequacy or delay in the
allocation and/or release of local funds.
Loan No. 1890  Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project;
$38.0 Million Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 30, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
In spite of funding restraints which affected project implementation
in 1981, the reforestation component achievement is close to target, and, with
the allocation of funds for 1982 now available, this progress should continue.
Road works are behind schedule, as vehicles and equipment procured under the
project have not yet been delivered, and the use of hired equipment has been
plagued with problems. Project staffing levels proposed by NIA have been
reduced by 32%, and the proposed salary grades of key management personnel
have also been reduced. The Bank is monitoring this situation closely to
determine its possible effect on project implementation. The contract for the
Magat Feasibility Study was signed in November 1981.  The forest protection
pilot project is behind schedule due to the late release of funds in 1981.



- 40 -                       AiNNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Loan No. 1894 Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project; $45.0 Million
Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:  November 5,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is progressing well and cumulative disbursements have
ben slightly ahead of schedule. Estimated commitments over the medium term
indicate that this trencd should continue. In general, lending for fishponds
and hog production has exceeded appraisal estimates, while lending for
seagoing vessels and some types of cattle has lagged. (Village level cattle
schemes have substantially surpassed appraisal estimates.) Studies being
carried out by the Bureau of Animal Industries should be under way shortly,
and institutional strengthening of the Development Bank of the Philippines
is currently in progress. The need for a study on fishing gear technology
to be handled by the Fishery Industry Development Council is being reviewed,
but a review of maritime regulations is expected to start shortly.
Loan No. 2040 Agricultural Support Services; $45.0 million Loan of August 25,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: November 10, 1981,
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
This loan was signed on August 25, 1981 and was declared effective
in November 1981. New agencies have been established, and existing agencies
organized to implement the 24 components of the project. Delays have been
encountered due to confusion over the designation of responsibilities
between the Central Office, the staff bureaus and the Regional Offices
following the 1980 reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture and non-
release of scheduled local start-up funds in 1981.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness; March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall, the project is about 65% complete and two and half years
behind schedule because of slow procurement, poor performance of many contrac-
tors, and inadequate planning for the use of local funds. The Ministry of
Public Highways was poorly managed. However, it was merged in 1981 with the
Ministry of Public Works and its operations are now improving. Further
efforts are, however, required to strengthen its management, and a short-term
action program was agree,d in detail in 1981 with tlhe Ministry of Public Works
and Highways (MPWH) in o-rder to tighten the project implementation. MPWH
has adhered to the schedule of the action program, and works on national
and minor road contracts are now progressing satisfactorily. The road
maintenance and restoration programs have been reduced in scope to establish
more realistic targets. Procurement of road maintenance equipment, tools
and other machinery has been completed.  Consultants for supervision of
construction of roads and workshops are in place and the road and ferry
feasibility studies have been completed. The technical assistance advisors
to MPWH completed their assignment in November 1979 and training advisors to
MPWH completed their work in March 1980. Overall, the project is likely to
be completed by mid-1983, the revised completion date.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After long initial delays caused mainly by slow procurement, the
implementation of this project has now started to progress more rapidly. MPWH
has adhered, with some minor delays, to the action program agreed upon in
May 1981, and has recently made significant progress by awarding nine of the
ten national road construction contracts. Nevertheless, the overall delay now
amounts to at least a year. The detailed engineering for construction of
workshops is well under way.  Pilot maintenance programs for four regions have
started and procurement of maintenance equipment is under way.
Loan No. 1855      Third Ports Project; $67 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bids for almost all project components have been received and
evaluated. The soil consolidation work at the Port of Cebu is virtually
complete. Contracts for the main construction works at the ports of Iloilo,
Cebu and Zamboanga have been awarded and mobilization is under way. The
contract for the main construction work at the Port of Cagayan de Oro is still
under evaluation. Arrangements for construction supervision are still not
satisfactory and the Government is attempting to improve its field supervision
organization with the help of technical assistance consultants.
Loan No. 1860      Rural Roads Improvement Project; $62 Million Loan of
June 13, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 8,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Initial progress in preparing the 1981 rural roads program has been
slow due mainly to a delay in providing technical assistance services to the
implementing agency. Due to delays in preparing and reviewing detailed
engineering for rural roads, no construction contracts started in the 1981 dry
season, putting the project about nine months behind schedule. Recently, the
Ministry of Local Government has awarded contracts for the first year's
program packages, and the works are now starting. Contracts for improvement
of the national road in Occidental Mindoro have recently been awarded, and the
contractors are mobilizing. Consulting services for the technical assistance
component are now under way.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224-T   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The main component of the project, which is the development,
printing and distribution of 27 million primary and secondary textbooks and
teachers manuals in five subject areas, has made good progress. The project



- 42 -                      ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
has met its goal of producing and distributing 84 titles to schools,
amounting to over 31 million copies. Over 56,000 teachers have been upgraded.
A delay in the completion of a central facility for the Textbook Secretariat,
resulting from change orders and price escalation, has caused a one-year delay
in project completion. Two hundred seventy thousand dollars of the loan was
cancelled in March 1982 due to misprocurement when a contract was not awarded
to the lowest bidder.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Implementation of the project is now some 18 months behind schedule.
Rapid price escalation and high credit costs in the 1978-80 period resulted
in a slow-down in building activity, the rescinding of an important contract
and renegotiation of others, thus delaying implementation of the project's
other physical components and dependent educational objectives. The problem
is being resolved, and in the process EDPITAF has devolved implementation
responsibilities to recipient institutions. The closing date has now been
extended for two years to December 1983. Overall project utilization of
Technical Assistance Specialists is only 20%, while over 80% of Fellowship
time has been committed. Enrolments are about on target and other educational
developments at UPLB and VISCA are proceeding satisfactorily. There is some
tendency to proliferate fields of specialized study and the National Governing
Board of the PTC-RD system has not functioned as planned in reviewing
important changes in policies and programs.
Loan No. 1786 Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Overall physical implementation is behind schedule by about six
months mainly due to the transfer of detailed implementing responsibility from
EDPITAF to the respective project institutions, and to delays in Presidential
approval of civil works contracts (P 2.0 million each). Uncertainties over
where management responsibilities would lie are expected to cause further
delays. Seven of the 13 civil works contracts have now been awarded and
technical assistance is in progress. The Fellowship program is being
implemented on schedule, but the recruitment of consultants has been slow,
also affected by the transfer of implementing responsibility and the delay in
the release of the Obligation Authority for project funds to recipient
institutions. This release is expected shortly. The Bank has recommended
that an interministerial task force be created to review the management
difficulties and other issues which are hampering project implementation.
Loan No. 2030 Elementary Education Sector Loan; $100.0 Million Loan of
August 25, 1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
November 10,1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective in November 1981. The project has
made a good start, and project planning is proceeding well. The main



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
difficulties anticipated would arise from the Government's complicated
procurement, payment and accounting procedures.  These difficulties should be
minimized by the transfer of expertise from EDPITAF to the Ministry of
Education, which is responsible for project implementation.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272-T   Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282      $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
On-site infrastructure is about 90% complete and 4,800 plot titles
have been awarded with another 4,000 scheduled by September 1982. Improved
water supply is delayed and now expected by last quarter 1982. The sewer
outfall should be completed by February 1983, the R.10 road in late 1983 and
the C.2 road by april 1984. The site will be turned over to the local
government shortly.
Loan No. 1415 Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Overall project implementation is about one year behind schedule.
Major contracts have been awarded; however, due to unforeseen delays in well
drilling and late deliveries of pipes, progress has been slow. All major
contracts have been let, and better progress is expected through 1982. Work
has started in four of the six project cities, and contractors are mobilizing
in the remaining two. The construction cost is expected to be close to
appraisal estimates; however, project completion is expected to be delayed by
about one year.
Loan No. 1615 Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project suffered a late start because of initial delays in
approvals of contracts in source development which delayed the construction
of the Bank-financed distribution system component. Nearly all the major
contracts have now been let and no further slippage is expected. However,
because of the high cost of money, many contractors have delayed mobilization
on their contracts. A water rate increase of P 0.25 plus a 10% waste water
disposal charge were implemented on July 1, 1981.
Loan No. 1647      Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
In Manila, problems in funding contracts and poor coordination
between executing agencies, which caused considerable delays and cost over-
runs (50% over appraisal estimates), are now being resolved. Physical works



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
are expected to be completed by early 1984, 15 months behind schedule. In
the regional cities, after an initially slow start due to staffing and
political problems, work is underway on all sites and completion is expected
at the end of 1983.
Credit No. 920  Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan No. 1710   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
The 50 Water Districts required under the project have been formed.
Work is under way on the development of a financial planning and control
system, and consultants have started the preparation of a comprehensive
management assistance and training proposal. A new institution, the Rural
Water Supply Development Corporation, has been created, and is now preparing a
list of materials to be procured for rural water supply.
Loan No. 1814 Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project: $63.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 10, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is proceeding well, with no major problems. Detailed
designs for the Tondo Pumping Station have been completed, and tenders for
sanitary sewers in Dagupan and Pandacan awarded. The organization for the
combined sewer program is in place; staffing and training plans are being
prepared; and equipment for the water quality monitoring program has been
approved for procurement.
Loan No. 1821 Third Urban Development Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 2, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Problems of funding and land acquisition have slowed the project.
Disbursements are now 60% of that projected at appraisal, and show an
improving trend.  The problem of land for sites and services is expected to
be resolved shortly and contracting is expected to start later this year.
Overall costs are stable. Progress on finalizing policies for ZIP, and
precise agreements with local governments have been slow, but are now about
to be implemented.  Preparation of the next phase of basic services programs
is progressing well.
Loan No. 2067  Urban Engineering Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
February 24, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: May 26, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30,1985
This loan was signed in February 1982 and is expected to be
effective in May 1982. Most of the consultants have been selected.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
Power Sector
Loan No. 1034       Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The Pantabangan generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and
the transmission facilities are now expected to be completed by April 1982,
about four years behind schedule. The main delays in the execution of the
transmission system have been due to the slow pace of engineering design and
preparation of tender documents, and delays in procurement.  The revised
project cost estimate is 53% higher than the appraisal estimate. The
closing date of the loan was postponed from June 30, 1981 to March 31,
1982 to allow additional time for payment of retention monies to
contractors.
Loan No. 1460       Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is now two years behind schedule, mainly due
to delays in the construction of the load dispatching center. The revised
project cost is now estimated at $100 million (including additional works),
8% higher than the original estimate. Due to delays in procurement, and
because of additional works authorized by the Bank, the closing date of the
loan has been extended to December 1983. NPC has still been unable to meet
the 8% rate of return target provided in the Loan Agreement and the
Government has yet to provide specific assurances that appropriate action
will be taken to remedy this. This problem is being followed up by the
Bank.
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of May 10,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project is substantially complete, with about $1.2 million
uncommitted. These funds are to be used by NEA for the purchase of equipment
and materials for its 1982 program. NEA's lending to cooperatives for power
development has increased by over 50% in the last two years, and its financial
results and condition continue to be satisfactory according to unaudited
financial statements for 1981. However, NEA's collation of the financial
results of its client cooperatives shows that a number are in financial
difficulties. The Bank is monitoring the situation closely, and is pressing
NEA, as the regulatory agency, to take all necessary remedial steps through
rate increases improvements in management, or other appropriate measures.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; CLosing Date:
September 30, 1982
The loan is now fully committed and disbursements as of March 31,
1982, stood at $24.9 million. The project progress is satisfactory. The
closing date might be postponed by one year to allow for completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is fully committed and disbursements ($13.9 million as of
March 31, 1982) are proceieding at a satisfactory rate.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines:  $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
DBP's SMI program is operating satisfactorily; the loan allocation
of $29.7 million for this component has been fully committed. However,
commitments under the loan for mediut/large industry financing ($50 million)
and related disbursements are slower than anticipated at appraisal. The
closing date might be postponed by 18 months to allow for completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The IGLF componesnt ($24.5 million) was fully disbursed by October
1981 and overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Disbursements
under the MASICAP component ($0.5 million) are slower than anticipated
because of the recent reorganization within the Ministry of Trade and
Industry. However, this component is expected to be completed before the
current closing date.
Loan No. 1984      Industrial Finance Project; $150 million Loan of May 28,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectivenesss: July 28, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Satisfactory progress has been made in achieving the main objectives
of the project. The Apex Development Finance Unit of the Central Bank has
been successful in meeting the institutional aspects of the project: the



- 47 -
ANNEX IS
Page 17 of 18
commercial Loan Agreement for $100 million was signed on August 7, 1981 on
favorable terms); issues discussed during negotiations relating to individual
participating financial institutions (PFIs) are being dealt with; and
subsidiary loan agreements with individual PFIs are being negotiated and
finalized (after due consultation with the Bank).  Commitments by the three
participating financial institutions (PFIs) have started and good progress is
also being made in identifying and appraising new PFIs.  Progress made so far
is in line with expectations, except that the pace of commitments is slower
than anticipated at appraisal.
Structural Adjustment Lending
Loan No. 1903       Structural Adjustment Loan; $200.0 million Loan of
September 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 14,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Considerable progress has been made in implementing the Government's
industrial development program in support of which the loan was made. The
first stage of the Government's five year program of tariff reform and trade
liberalization became effective on January 1, 1981; the second stage of this
program became effective on January 1, 1982. Studies are under way to review
and improve the Government's industrial incentives and promotion system; and
subsector development programs are under preparation to assist domestic
industries to adjust to the tariff reform and trade liberalization measures.
The two requirements for the release of the second tranche of the loan were
met by the Government in July 1981. The second tranche was subsequently
released and, with the exception of the $5 million technical assistance
component, the $200 million loan has been fully disbursed.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035       Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
With the exception of some construction in Regions 6 and 9 and water
supplies to rural health units, the project has been substantially completed.
The balance of the loan is expected to be committed by mid-May of this year,
and all works and procurement completed by the closing date of December 31,
1982. This is, however, dependent upon the release of 1982 project funding
by the Budget Ministry. Project implementation is now being handled by the
Ministry of Health, whose performance is gradually improving following the
dissolution of the previous Project Management Service at the time of the
original closing date (December 31, 1979).  A major cause for concern,
however, is the project accounting, of which very little has taken place.
This situation has been brought to the attention of the Minister of Health
and is being very closely supervised by Bank staff. All project-related
training activities and staff recruitment programs have been completed.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Information, education and communication activities are substantially com-
pleted, and management information services and technical assistance are
expected to be completed by September of this year.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The earlier slow pace of implementation is now improving with the
Ministry of Budget's advance release of funds to cover the carryover
activities of CY80 and those scheduled for 1981. The release of the 1982
project funds has been delayed, however, by the Ministry of the Budget.
All sites required for scheduled civil works have been acquired and surveyed,
arrangements for construction management and monitoring are being finalized
and the procedures designed to encourage community participation for Barangay
Health Station development under the first project are being applied to those
under the second project. Implementation of the Primary Health Care component
has attained notable momentum; however, activities in training, IEC and pro-
curement lag far behind the appraisal schedule. Gretater decentralization of
the implementation responsibilities at regional, provincial and municipal
levels in recent months is expected to accelerate the pace of project
implementation.



- 49 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND IIEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:                   Seven months
(b) Agencies which prepared the project:             DBP, IGLF and MTI with Bank
assistance
(c) Date of the first Bank Mission to
consider the project:                         February 1981
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission:                  October 1981
(e) Negotiations completed:                          April 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                   September 1982
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Action
To help DBP upgrade its SMI lending operations, it would be import-
ant for this component to be intensively supervised.
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) the Government would allocate the necessary staff and budgetary
resources to BSMI and SBAC/MASICAP to enable them to meet
effectively their responsibilities under the project, and would
consult with the Bank before introducing any material changes
affecting the operations of BSMI and SBAC/MASICAP program
(para. 38);
(b) the second tranche of the amount allocated to DBP for direct
lending would only be released after compliance with the key
elements/requirements under the agreed Action Program (para. 56);
(c) completion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank
between the Government and DBP would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 63); and
(d) the Government would periodically review the interest rates
charged to end-users to ensure that they reflect market
conditions (para. 64).



- 50 -                           ANNEX IV
Page I of 9
PHILTPPDTqES
THIRD SMALL AND 'EDIT.M INDUJSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
*Ministry of Trade and Industry
Small- .and Medium-Scale Industrv Plevelopment
in the PhiliLlolnes:  Policv and Strate.y for the 1980s
I. INTRODUCTION
1.         Small and medium industries (SMI) play a. major role in the develop-
ment of the Philippine economy.  In manufacturing, SMI account for rmore than
90% of the total number of establishments in the organized sector, employ
almost 50% of workers and contribute about 30% of value-added.
2.        The Government: recognizes the importance of S'-II and, starting in the
second half of the last decade, has begun a conscious effort to develop SM1I.
The Bureau of Small and Medium Industries in the Ministry of Industry was
established in 1974; technical assistance programs were designed to respond to
the problems of the sector, and lending to SMI was increased.  To extend
assistance to smell firms in the regions, t'he Ministry of Industry creatod thE-
lIediun and Small Industries Coordinated Action Program (MASICAP) and Small
Business Advisory Centcrs (SBAC), which have helped with project preparation
and technical and management consultanay.  The Ministry of Industry also
encouraged and coordinated the participation of other government agencies in
the SMI development effort.
3.        The experiences gained in these SMI development activities provide
an important basis for t:he SMI Development Strategy for the 1980s.
II. SMI DEFINITION
4.         The Ministry of Trade and Industry promotes SMI development in
manufacturing, trading aLnd service sectors. Presently, the Government applies
the following three criteria to define SMI for different administrative and
assistance purposes:
(a) Definition based on asset size for lending purposes: small
industries are those with total assets between P 250,000 and
P 2.5 million at the time of loan application while medium-scale
industries have total assets at the time of loan application, of



51-                           ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 9
up to P 10 million.  The Government recognizes the need to
adjust this definition periodically .o reflect changing economic
conditions.
(b)  Definition bas:d on number of employees for statistical purposes:
small industries are those employing 10-99 workers and medium
industries are those employing 100-199 workers.
(c)  Definition based on management structure:  small industries are
enterprises in which the owner-manager performs the varied range,
of tasks involved in operating the enterprise without the nelp of
specialized staff officers.
These three criteria will be considered in the provision of technical
assistance to SMI.
III.  SM1 POLICY OBJECTIVES
5.        SMI will continue to contribute to the GovernmenKts development
objectives which are stated in the National Development Plan and include:
(a)  equitable distribution of wealth;
(b)  increased emnployment generation;
(c)  improved living standards of the poor;
(d)  countryside development; and
(e)  utilization of indigenous resources.
6.        The framework for S'MI development in the industrial sector is
provided by the Government's national industrialization obJectives:
(a)  accelerated employment creation;
(b) increased foreign exchange earnings to support the countr<-s
development pro-~rams and growing import bills;
(c) a dynamic industrial structure that is efficient and internationally
competitive; and
(d)  an equitable distribution of the benefits of industrialization among
the Filipino people.
7.        In support of these objectives, the Government has initiated a
program of industrial policy re-orm.  Wvhile these reforms will improve the
policy framework for the entire industrial sector, several measures are
expected to have a particular impact on SMI.  The first phase of policy reform
focuses on trade; the realignment of tariffs that is currently being imple-
mented will lead to greater competitiveness of Philippine manufactured exports
and will contribute to the increased efficiencv of industries producing for
the domestic market. Export incentives have also been strengthened to



- 52 -                       ANN.X IV
Page 3 of 9
complement these reforms.  In the second phase of industrial policy reform,
the investment incentives system will be revised to encourage export produc-
tion, employment generation and the growth of industry in the regions.
8.        In support of these policy objectives, the government will imple-
ment an industrialization strategy consisting of seven major components which
are:
(a)  rationalization and restructuring of existing key industry
sectors;
(b)  increased emphasis on the promotion of small and medium-scale
industries;
(c)  accelerated dispersal of industries and the promotion
of eaployment-geierating projects;
(d)  stronger cooveration and coordination between the Governrment and
the private sector the in planning the implementation of industrial
policies and programs;
(e)  a focused and organized export promotion program;
(f)  continued encouragement of foreign investments in selected areas;
and
(g)  accelerated i'piementation of the 11 major industrial projects.
9.        Within the framework of the Philippines' industrialization strategy,
the specific objectives f'or SMI development will be:
(a)  Increased Geograuhical Disoersion! of SMI
(i)  The Goverrnment will continue to encourage the establishment
and growth of SMI as they can contribute significantly to
increased regional dispersal of industry and to more
balanced regional development.
(ii) Particular emphasis will be given to the identification and
promotion of SMI which can be established in smaller towns
and outlying regions. Locational flexibility and production
for the local market are important SMI features which will
support this objective.
(iii)  The .ASICAP program of the Ministry of Trade and Industry has
assisted SMI establishment and expansion in the regions by
providing them with technical assistance in the conduct of



- 53 -                         ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 9
project feasibility studies needed for the availment of
loans from financing institutions. The SBACs provided
technical and management advisory services.  The provision
of this assistance will be sustained and enhanced for the
coming years to accelerate the development of SMI in the
regions.
(b) Creation of New EmDloyment ODportunities
The considerable potential of SMI to use labor-intensive
production techniques will be developed further to enable SMI
to increase its already substantial provision of employment
opportunities.
(c) Promotion of Exoort-Oriented Small and Medium Industries
The Government in its drive to pronote and support exports, will
seek to identify exportable products in whose production SMI can
participate either directly as exporters or as suppliers to
larger firms and trading companies. SMI products which have
distinct comparative advantages both in the utilization of
indigenous raw materials and local labor will be developed.
Initiatives shall be taken to assist SMI with export potential
with regard to product design and quality to increase market-
ability abroad.
(d)  Diversification of the Industrial Structure
The existence of a broad entrepreneurial middle class is a key
element in economic stability. SMI offer the most promising means
of promoting entrepreneurship given limited financial rescurces
and scarce technical and managerial axpertise.  Uence, t'-.e pro-
motion of SMI will contribute to broadening the entrepreneurial
base within the country. This objective is also in line withi the
Government's commitment to increasing private sector particigation
in industrial development.
(e)  Increased Utilization of Indigenous Raw Materials
The Government will encourage SMI to increase their use of local
t                   raw materials and assist them in the provision of these raw
materials. SMI development will thus permit the tapping of
resources which otherwise would otherwise not have been utilized,
particularly in the less developed areas.



- 54 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 9
IV. MAJOR ELEMENTS OF THE SMI DEVELOP.TCNT STRATEGY
11.       To attain the above mentioned objectives, the SHI Development
Strategy for the 1980s will have the following major elements:
(a)  Contribution to Geographical Dispersion of SMIi
Geographical dispersion of SMI will be promoted through:
(i)  regional industry subsector studies which will identify
SMI having a comparative advantage based on regional
factor endowment and existing region,al specialization of
production;
(ii) the increased regional focus of SI-II financial and technical
assistance programs and institutions;
(iii)  strengtheniing regional investment incentives; and
(iv) establishment of the National Indust:rial Estates Program
which will operate as the nuclei for S141 development in the
regions.
(b) Strengthening of S'.,! DeveloDment Planning Programming
(i)  The Hinistry of Trade and Industry is currently introducing
the approach of subsector development planning to restructure
problem industries and encourage new industries with a
potential comparative advantage. These subsector plans at the
national level will cover several subsectors in which SMII
represent a large number of firms and will therefore provide
a planning framework for subsectora1 S14I development.  Among
the national priority subsectors already identified are food,
wood, metal working, and mechanical engineering, garments,
and leather industries.
(ii)  Within this framework, BSI4I and the SBACs, will continue to
undertake several types of StII industry studies to provide
the basis for focused SMI assistance programs;
a. SiMI subsector studies at the national level will
determine industry-wide problems and assistance
requirements;
b. SMII subsector studies at the regional level will
determine region-specific industrial problems and
assistavice requirements; these studies will also identify



ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 9
new industries which should be promoted in specific
regions.
(c) Access of SMI to Financial Resources
(i)  In order to further facilitate the access of SMI to
financing and to make the financial system more responsive to
the specific needs of SMI, the Government will take the
following approaches:
a.  Long-term lending to SMI will continue to be provided
through Governnent financial institutions although the
participation of private financial institutions is
increasing. Additional channels of SMI lending will be
strengthened, particularly to reach SMI firms in the
regions.
b. The Government will continue to provide guarantee
schemes to reduce the collateral requirements for SMI
borrowers.
c. Schemes of "lending in kind" through equipment leasing
will be introduced to reduce the needs of SMI to invest
in fixed assets.
d. Equity financing by Venture Capital Corporations will
continue to support SMI.
e. Additiornal financing schemes for working capital will
be introduced or strengthened (e.g., subcontracting
financing, financing of purchase orders for export SMI,
in-kind raw material financing).
(d) Strengthening of SMI Technical Assistance
(i)  With the SBAC/MASICAP taking the lead role, the technical
assistance agencies for SMI will cooperate to expand
providing the following services to SMI:
a. Business-counselling for individual firms or groups of
firms will be strengthened.
b. Assistance in the preparation of SMI project feasibility
studies will be improved.
c.  Assistance in technology delivery and quality control
will be provided either directly through the technical



ANNEX IV
-56-                           Page 7 of 9
institutes or through a referral system operated by the
SBAC/MASICAP.
(ii) For the del:ivery of these services, the principle of cost
sharing, introduced in 1980, will be rmaintained and graduallv
expanded.
(e)  Strengthening of Training
(i)  The Government will assist in the provision of training
programs which are geared towards the needs of SMI:
a.  Vocational training courses will have an increased focus
on specific industries and take account of the
requiremients of SMI.
b.  Traiuid,g courses for SMI entrepreneurs will be expanded.
c.  Training for additional industria:L extension staff will
be provided as well as courses in support of specific
extension tasks.
(f)  Domestic .Market Assistance
(i)  The Government recognizes the inoortance of marketing for
SHE and is providing assistance in the following areas to
strengthen the mar'k;eting capabilities of SMI:
a.  The subcontracting program that has been operated by
MICI in conjunctiOnI with DBP on a 1ilot basis will be
strengthened; a subcontracting exchange will be
established to facilitate lin,.ages between SXI and
large firms which are interested in subcontracting.
b.  SBAC/ML2'SICAP will assist in providing information on
markets for selected SMI products in the domestic
market.
c. SBAC/MASICAP will also assist SMI in exploring
arrangements for raw material procurement.
d. The possibilities of collective marketing arrangements
for SMI will be -explored.
(g) Promotion of SMI Exports
(i)  In support of the Government's export promotion programs,
the export potential of SMI will be developed further:



- 57-                            ANNEX TV
Page 8 of 9
a. The use of marketing intermediaries for export will be
increased, in particular the ttse of the 12 accredited
trading corporations (ATCs). The SBAC/MASICAP staff
will work closely with the ATCs to promote SMI exports.
b. SBAC/MASICAP will liaise with the Government's export
promotion services to provide information on export
markets suitable for small- and medium-scale
industries.
c.  SMI export products will be promoted through trade
fairs and expositions.
(h) Continued Efforts to Develop Technologies and Products Suitable
for SMI Production
(i)  The Government will increase the emphasis of technological
research oriented towards products and production processes
appropriate for SMI.
(ii)  The SMI assistance institutions will help by establishing
pilot projects that apply and test the result of these
research activities.
(i)  Develoument of Mutual Heln and Self-Rellance among SMI
The government will assist S.ll in identifing and establishing
services th'at might be provided more economically through common
facilities. Tnese services could comprise common laboratory and
testing centers, common repair service centers, common ware-
housinrg, market outlets, and delivery facilities.  Wshile the
Government is willing to participate in the establishment and
initial operation of these facilities, they ultimately should be
taken over by private investors or associations of SMI.
V.  INSTITUTIONAL FRAMX'WORK FOR SMI DEVEr'LOPMENT
12.       Concerning the institutional framework for SMI policy design, the
Bureau of Small and Medium Industries of the MTI has been assigned lead role
for SMI policy design. BSMI will coordinate with other government agencies
and the private sector whenever needed for specific SIM policy issues, as
well as review the implementation of the SM! Strategy.
13.       Concerning the institutional framework for SMI assistance programs,
BSMI also takes the lead role for the design of SMI assistance programs by the
MTI.  The SBACs are the implementing arm of BSMI assistance programs in the
regions.



ANNEX IV
-58-                          Page 9 of 9
14.       Within the framework of the SMI strategy for the 1980s, agencies
extending assistance to SMI will draft action programs to support specific
elements of this strategy.  BSMI and the SBACs will coordinate and cooperate
with other S.I assistance agencies at the working level with respect to these
implementation of the action programs.
15.       Private sector participation in SI development is an important
thrust of the Government's SRI Strategy.  The Government is committed to
include representatives of small and medium-sized firms and their associations
in the ongoing industrial sector dialogues.  In addition, MTI encourages the
formation of S.5I associat:ions on an industry and regional level to discuss
specific policy concerns and to gradually assume an increased role in SMI
assistance.



IBRD 13915R2
116      t CtLASSIFIC ,TION OF PROVINCES                  120°                                                       124°                                                   NOVEMBER 1981
BY (;EQOiRAPiHICAL REGIONS
\Vi   \ATIONAL ( ARITA L REGION
ILOCOS                 VI WiSTERN S ISAYAS
I loco, 4ort            . AKian                                                                                 PHILIPPINES
. Abra                        cap'
- llocos SUr                 Antique
20°         fvutI  loilo                                                                                                                                                                     20°-
Neg,s Occidental
i3 anion           Y         eCeh                                                                                      Ar-porl
Bsngart            v:   INTRAL VISAYAS
7 P tngasmnan                 N.gros Oriental                                                                             Roads
I (AC;AYAN * ALLi                Bohol
Baranes                    S,quijor                                                                                    RaIlways
Cagayian           3' F  ASILKN V IS.\y t A
Kahn9a Apayao          -  No'thenr Santa                                                                               Ptovtoc,l Boondartes
Isabela                    Satnar     ar.                                     ,..,             
Ifugao                   . EasternSanar                                                                      -          Reg ono  Boundaries
-- Nuece Viscaya            . Leqte  S.-,
GNuir to                    Southern LeytL eaoage                                                                             e t -   -    -   Internatonal Boundaries  '
CE\TRAL LUZON            V- WESTERN EEINOANAG
Nueaa Ecija                Zan,boanga del Norte
*  Tarlac                      Zamhoanga ide Str                                                                                                                    N
i  Zamgbales                .Basian
-Panpaiga                  Su-tu:                                 .                    -
r Bulacan                 =  Twita.,                           Bordac
. Bataar               X NORTHERN MINDANAO
jVSOUTHERN TAGALOG              7 Surgao del Norte  S.,
Quezon ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ca-tiat       cle,nand   a
R Qaczon                   - Agusan del Norte                  ,
I Gasita                 talisamis Oriental                  Bgua                   ;                              0     50    100    150   200   250   300
k5°         Cavra                    :  Misamis Occiouctal                                                          KILOMETERS                 i      r*       i                              1 I
Batangas                0  3uk dnon               ,   fgEt                                                    MILES
- Marnda                   EAgusar. del S,             \                                                                       50         100         150       200
<  Midnoo Orientai    Xi SOUTHERN VINDANAO                             Jose
. Mrndto Occidental      :. Surigqao del Sur       -tOc             Js
R- Romclon                 -- DOao Oriental           -                Carratuan
Palawan                    Daaao                   Aggles
a BCOL                          D-aeo del Sur :c
- JCamOtL n  :snrtn        So-rth Cotabato OIongpo          =
Canarinet SEr       <al' ULNERAL MINDANAO                       1   MANIIA  ?                                     ,                    /ra         ,
CatanJuanes                 Lanno del Norte
. Altav          ..  Lanao dl,I Su,
Sorsogon g: North Cotabato
- ldsbate                    Magaundanao
. Sulan K.Jdart                       'p tpO
SOUTH                                                         C V
,2~                             .-         ,-,,--Or---eAe
±           Bao o
Puerto~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rr 
Prcnces.
v-/ 7                                                                                           ri--    Cagayn dart                         r
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /                                                                                            .,  
CH 
- Zan,boangao
'VMEt NAMI            5 JON                                                                   .O
P HrL PPINES                                                      Et FIao0                                         G
A AW,~       ate(Vfn,A r.a  o 
NC XDAYVAO                                                                        .=,C^            ..!
BRUNEI ,/              n                                     3
CMyA .Trer  f   Vhis map Sas been prepa.ed En the World Bank a staff enc-bshvenW fnr tEe convemhence
of the readers of the repo et which tis attaohee The de--omnati-ae used and the
ta                           Socc~~~~~.deer-  h-w nc rE,. -ep do n-  .plt, on tEe pact of the W-etd Back and an
rfha, e b a--y  d-rode    I on thae legai state of an  teyr torr or an, e,dorsemen-t r
N                                                               acceptance af such b-orndaries
'<3.         _           r,> t   s78f ~, 120                                              124°                                                           128



