Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3838-PH
PHILIPPINES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ON THE
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 6, 1982
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.0       =  *P 8.10
P 1.00       =  US$0.123
P 1 million = US$123,457
P 1 billion = US$123 million
ABBREVIATIONS
BAAD           -  Branches and Agencies Department (of DBP)
BOI            -  Board of Investments
BSMI           -  Bureau of Small and Medium Industries (of MTI)
CB             -  Central Bank of the Philippines
CIGLF         -  Cottage Industry Guarantee Loan Fund
DAP            -  Development Academy of the Philippines
DBI            -  Development Banking Institute (of DBP)
DBP            -  Development Bank of the Philippines
DCP            -  Design Center of the Philippines
DDRB           -  Department of Development and Rural Banks (of DBP)
IGLF           -  Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
KKK            -  Kilusang Kabuhayan at Kaunlaran (National Livelihood Program)
MIRDC          -  Metals Industry Research and Development Centre
MOI            -  Ministry of Industry
MTI            -  Ministry of Trade and Industry
NACIDA         -  National Cottage Industries Development Authority
NBFI           -  Nonbank Financial Intermediaries
NCSO           -  National Census and Statistical Office
NDC            -  National Development Corporation
NEA            -  National Electrification Administration
NEDA           -  National Economic and Development Authority
PCR            -  Project Completion Report
PDBs           -  Private Development Banks
PFS            -  Project Feasibility Study
PNB            -  Philippine National Bank
PPG            -  Program Planning Group (of DBP)
SAL            -  Structural Adjustment Loan
SBAC/MASICAP  -  Small Business Advisory Centers/Medium and Small Industries
Coordinated Action Program
SFS           -  Special Financing Schemes
SMI            -  Small and Medium Industries
SMILE         -  Small and Medium Industry Lending Department (of DBP)
UPISSI         -  University of the Philippines Institute for Small-Scale
Industries
VCC            -  Venture Capital Corporations
FISCAL YEAR
Government:      January I to December 31
DBP        :     January 1 to December 31
IGLF       :     January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ON THE
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  SECTORAL BACKGROUND  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
The Industrial Sector. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
The Small and Medium Industries (SMI) Sector . . . . . . . .       1
SMI Development Strategy and Policies. . . . . . . . . . . .       4
SMI Technical Assistance Programs . . . . .  . . . . . . . .       7
SMI Financial Assistance Programs. . . . . . . . . . . . . .      10
Interagency Coordination of SMI Policy and Programs. . . . .    11
2.  BANK LENDING STRATEGY FOR THE INDUSTRIAL AND SMI SECTORS . . .    12
Bank Lending Strategy for the Industrial Sector  . . . . . .    12
Bank Lending Strategy for the SMI Sector . . . . . . . . . .      13
3.    THE  PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  15
Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . . . .      15
Project Cost and Financing ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  16
4.  INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  . . . .    20
A.  Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)  . . . . . . .    20
1.  DBP's Direct SMI Lending (SMILE) . . . . . . . . . .    21
2.  Private Development Banks (PDBs) . . . . . . . . . .    27
3.  Development Banking Institute (DBI)  . . . . . . . .    32
B.  Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF)  . . . . . . .    33
C.  Technical Assistance Component . . . . . . . . . . . . .    37
1.  SBAC/MASICAP Subcomponent  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
2.  Pilot Project Subcomponent   . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
3.  Studies Subcomponent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    40
This report was prepared by Ms. Khambata, McCollom, White, Bendokat and
Messrs. Medhora, Goel, Poldermans (Consultant) following a field appraisal
of the project in October/November 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
5.  THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41
Benefits and Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41
Features of the Loan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    44
Agreements and Understandings Reached at Negotiations  . . .    49
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Ministry of Trade and Industry - Small and Medium Scale Industry
Development in the Philippines: Policy and Strategy for the 1980s.
2. Development Bank of the Philippines.
Attachment 1 - Development Bank of the Philippines Proposed Lending
Strategy for 1982-1986 for Cottage, Small and Medium
Industries (draft).
Attachment 2 - Program of Action for Improvements in DBP's
SMI Operations.
Supporting Tables
T-1  Special Financing Schemes
T-2  Summary of Operations of SMI Loans, 1976-1981
T-3  DBP's 15 Most Active Branches in SMI Operations as of
December 31, 1981
T-4  Characteristics of SMI Loans, 1976-1981
T-5  Trends of Arrears of Home Industry and SMI Loans,
1976-1981
T-6  Analysis of Home Industry and SMI Loan Portfolio
as of December 31, 1981
3. Private Development Banks
Supporting Tables
T-1 List of PDBs as of December 31, 1981
T-2 Total Outstanding Loans Granted by the PDBs as of
December 31, 1981
T-3 DBP's Financial Assistance to the PDBs 1977-81
T-4 Important Features of Selected PDBs as of
December 31, 1981
Chart 1 - DDRB's Organization Chart
4. Development Banking Institute
1982 Training Schedule
5. Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Attachment 1 - IGLF's Lending Strategy for 1982-86 (draft)



- iii -
Supporting Tables
T-1  Accredited Commercial Banks and Nonbank Financial
Intermediaries and Development Banks as of December 31, 1981
T-2  Summary of Operations, 1976-1981
T-3  Summary of Operations, July 1, 1976-1981
T-4  Characteristics of Loan Approvals by Sector, Region, Size,
Purpose and Maturity, July 1, 1976-1981
T-5  Summarized Balance Sheets, 1974-1981
T-6  Summarized Income Statements, 1974-1981
T-7  Analysis of Arrears of IGLF Portfolio as of December 31, 1981
T-8  Analysis of Arrears Between End-Users and Financial Institutions
as of December 31, 1981
T-9  Trend of Arrears between Participating Insitutions and End-Users
of IGLF, 1976-1981
Chart 1 -- IGLF's Organization Chart
6.  Ministry of Trade and Industry
Attachment 1 - Technical Assistance Provided to Four Key SMI Sub-
sectors under the Project
Supportinig Tables
T-1 Regional Priority SMIs as Established by Regional Industry Studies
T-2 Summary of Proposed Training for BSMI, SBAC/MASICAP Staff and
SBAC/MASICAP Clients
T-3 Identified Pilot Projects
T-4 Pipeline of Pilot Projects
7. Proposed Bank Loan
Estimated Commitment and Disbursement Schedule for the Loan
8.  Project File
Selected Data and Documents Available in the Project File



PHILIPPINES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON THE THIRD
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
The Industrial Sector
1.01      During the 1970s, Philippine economic performance improved, raising
the trend GNP growth rate to 6% at the end of the decade; the ratio of fixed
investments to GNP rose from 16% to 24%. While private and public investment
has risen to acceptable levels, the accompanying expansion of the economy's
real output has been relatively low. The low efficiency and labor intensity
of investment have, in part, been caused by the distortive effects of past
trade, industrial and financial policies on the allocation of capital. In
1979, the manufacturing sector accounted for 25% of GDP, 30% of fixed
investment and 12% of total employment. The "unorganized" manufacturing
sector (those establishments employing less than 10 workers) accounts for
nearly two-thirds of the manufacturing work force but produces less than 5% of
manufacturing value-added. Conversely, the "organized" manufacturing sector
produces most of the value-added but provides only limited employment. As a
result of an industralization strategy based on import substitution, more than
80% of total manufacturing output is oriented towards the domestic market, of
which consumer goods constitute over 50%. The introduction of export
promotion measures in the early 1970s led to extremely rapid growth in exports
of nontraditional manufactures which rose from about US$50 million in 1970 to
US$2.1 billion in 1980.  Nontraditional manufactures now account for one-third
of the country's total exports. However, the export expansion has been
concentrated on a few items and backward linkages with the rest of the economy
have been limited due to the high cost and low quality of domestic inputs.
Consequently, nontraditional manufacturing export industries have developed as
an outward-looking enclave in an otherwise heavily protected economy. The
Government has recently taken steps to address these structural problems
(para. 1.09).
The Small and Medium Industries (SMI) Sector /1
1.02      An asset size definition is chiefly used for determining the
eligibility of enterprises for various SMI assistance programs. In 1981,
the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI), with the concurrence of the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and the Industrial Guarantee and
Loan Fund (IGLF), revised the asset-based SMI definition to reflect inflation
/1 For this project and report unless otherwise specified, SMI refers to
cottage as well as small- and medium-scale industries.



-2-
and the changing structure of industry./l According to the new definition,
manufacturing and manufacturing-related commercial and service enterprises
with total assets at time of loan application not exceeding P 250,000
(US$30,860) are termed cottage; those with assets exceeding P 250,000 but
not exceeding P 2.5 million (US$30,860-$308,600) are small; and those with
assets exceeding P 2.5 million but not exceeding P 10.0 million
(US$308,600-$1.2 million) are medium. To facilitate collection of
statistical information, the National Census and Statistics Office (NCSO)
has classified industrial establishments according to the number of
employees: establishments employing less than 10 workers are cottage
industries; 10-99 workers are small industries; and 100-199 workers are
medium industries.
1.03      Role and Characteristics of Cottage Industries.  As of 1977,12
about 75% or 59,000 manufacturing establishments were cottage industries.
Over the period 1967-1975, it is estimated that in terms of number of
establishments, the cottage industry sector grew at an average annual rate of
7% and was the fastest growing source of employment in the Philippines.
Cottage industries currently employ around 900,000 workers (more than five
times the employment generated by small and medium factory-based operations).
While cottage industries are labor intensive, they have relatively low
productivity, contributing only 2.5% to gross value-added in 1975. In terms
of sectoral distribution, cottage industries tend to operate in activities
where they have an advantage in terms of proximity to local markets such as
bakeries, tailoring, furniture, and fabricated materials.
1.04      Role and Characteristics of Small and Medium Industries.  In 1975,
the year for which most recent data are available, small-scale firms (10-99
workers) accounted for 73% of the total number of firms in the modern manufac-
turing sector,/3 18% of employment and 10% of manufacturing value-added.
Small and medium industries (10-199 workers) together accounted for 85% of
the total number of firms, 29% of the labor force, and contributed 30% to
gross value-added in the modern manufacturing sector. The most recent avail-
able data (1974) indicate that small firms are more labor intensive and about
as capital efficient as large firms: the amount of capital employed per unit
/1 The old asset-based definition of industrial establishments was formu-
lated by the Ministry of Industry in 1974 and classified enterprises
with assets below P 100,000 as cottage, P 100,000-P 1.0 million as
small, P 1.0 million-? 4.0 million as medium.
/2 The latest complete set of SMI data is based on a 1975 Annual Survey
of Manufacturers. At the request of MTI, NCSO has been able to update
to 1977, a few key SMI variables.
/3 The modern manufacturing sector does not include cottage industries.



- 3 -
of labor in small firms (P 11,800 per worker) was 45% of that for large
firms (P 26,200 per worker), while the capital output ratio of large firms
was 1.5 compared to 1.4 for small and medium firms.
1.05      In terms of size distribution of industry, a survey undertaken by
the Ministry of Industry (MOI), based on 1975 data, showed that the fre-
quency distribution was not the expected pyramid consisting of a large
number of small enterprises followed by a smaller number of medium enter-
prises and an even smaller number of large enterprises. Instead, it was
found that of the total number of establishments surveyed, there were a very
large number of cottage (91%) and a few small (6.9%) and large (1.6%) enter-
prises, but that the medium enterprise tier (0.5%) was underdeveloped.
While this might be the result of arbitrary statistical definitions which
cause problems in distinguishing medium from small industry, it could also
be because Government tinanced programs have, for the most part, neglected
medium-scale industry.  To encourage the growth and development of medium
industries, these industries were made eligible for IGLF financing under the
Bank's last SMI5 loan (Loan 1727-PH, approved in 1979).
1.06      Philippine SIII products (principally embroidery, bamboo and rattan
crafts and needlecrafts) valued at US$555.8 million were ranked as the third
most important export item in 1980 atter sugar and coconut oil exports.
Philippine handicraft products, which should be distinguished from cottage
products as the handicrafts are generally produced by small and medium
establishments, increased in export value from US$133 million in 1978 to
US$154 million in 1980 to account for 3% of total exports. While some SMI1
have been able to break into the export market, the vast majority have been
unable to do so although their output has export potential. For this reason,
the Government is providing SMI with marketing assistance and is actively
promoting subcontracting. Interview data have indicated that there is a
distinct tendency for large firms to subcontract to medium-scale tirms who in
turn subcontract to small-scale tirms. Subcontracting is a means of both
developing medium industries and promoting exports. Hence, under this project
a study will be undertaken to identify areas/industries in which subcontract-
ing should be tostered and the incentive structure necessary for doing so
(para. 4.51).
1.07      Pattern of SIIl Growth.  In the mid-1960s, there was rapid growth in
SMI, measured in terms of employment and value-added.  During 1968-71, how-
ever, the employment and value-added generated by small-scale industry
actually declined at an average annual rate of 6.5% and 2.7% respectively,
while medium-scale industry during this period experienced modest growth.
From 1971-74, more balanced growth was achieved between SLIT and large
industry, resulting in an overall average annual growth rate for the
manufacturing sector ot 7.9%. Based on 1975 data, it was found that 73% of



- 4 -
all small-scale industry establishments and 42% of all medium-scale industries
were concentrated in four key subsectors: food (excluding tobacco and
beverages), garments (excluding textiles and footwear), wood and furniture,
and metal working./l
1.08      With respect to regional distribution, manufacturing activity in the
Philippines has always been concentrated in the Metro Manila area and the
adjoining provinces of Central and Southern Luzon. SMI tend to concentrate in
or near urban areas where they are close to sources of raw materials, major
markets, skilled labor and supporting infrastructure. In 1975, an estimated
76% of SMI establishments were located in and around Metro Manila;/2 Metro
Manila and its satellite regions were responsible for 78% of employment and
56% of value-added generated by all SMI; Region VI and Region VII which
include Cebu City, a major trading center, and the province of Negros
Occidental, "the sugar bowl" of the Philippines, accounted for an additional
14% of the nation's SMI in 1975. While no official data for a later period
are available, lending by Government financial institutions to SMI appears to
indicate that there has been some reduction in the concentration of SMI
enterprises around Metro Manila. The Government has recently introduced
measures to promote more geographically balanced industrial growth. To
promote the less developed areas, industrial estates and export processing
zones providing improved infrastructure and support services have been
established. Government financial institutions are also required to give
priority to projects outside the urban centers and to use at least 75% of bank
deposits generated from a province for projects in that province.
SMI Development Strategy and Policies
1.09      Overall Industrial Development Strategy and Recent Reforms.  The
major industrial objectives of the 1978-82 Five-Year Development Plan are to:
promote small-scale enterprises, particularly in the less developed areas;
generate employment opportunities; increase the processing of domestic raw
/1 The breakdown between subsectors and size of establishments is:
Cottage and
small scale      Medium scale
Food manufacturing                     31%              14%
Garment manufacturing                  24%                5%
Wood and furniture manufacturing       11%               11%
Metal working                           7%               12%
Total                          73%              42%
/2  Metro Manila alone accounted for an estimated 63% of the number of SMI
establishments which contributed 65% of SMI employment and 51% of value-
added.



-5-
materials and the export of nontraditional manufactures; promote the nation-
wide livelihood program; and implement selected large-scale projects'
Broadly, the Government seeks to develop an efficient and competitive indus-
trial structure based on the country's comparative advantage with respect to
labor costs and availability of raw materials. To implement its industrial
objectives, the Government recently outlined its industrialization strategy in
conjunction with a phased policy reform program to be implemented over a five
year period./1 This program aims to correct the import substitution and
capital-intensive biases of existing industrial and trade policies.  The first
phase, which is already being implemented by the Government, consists of a
major tariff reform/trade liberalization program and export promotion
measures. The second phase, currently under preparation, will cover invest-
ment incentives and their administration and industrial restructuring and
subsector programming. To support the Government in its first phase of policy
reform, the Bank approved in September 1980, a US$200 million Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL I). Support of the second phase of reforms by the Bank
is being considered under a proposed SAL II, currently under preparation. In
1980-81 the Government introduced a comprehensive set of banking and financial
sector reforms aimed at broadening the scope of operations of each category of
financial institution. In addition, the Government has actively promoted termi
lending through revisions in its monetary policy and the introduction of
fiscal incentives. These reforms were supported by the Bank's Industrial
Finance Project (Loan 1984-PH), approved in May 1981./2
1.10      Policy Environment for SMI Development.  The above mentioned
industrial/financial sector reforms provide a policy framework conducive to
the growth and development of SMI.  The trade policy reforms implemented under
the first phase of the Government's industrial policy reforms are expected to
have a positive impact on the development of the SMI sector in a number of
ways. First, the reduction in tariffs will force local industries to be more
cost conscious which would be conducive to promoting subcontracting, largely
involving SMI. Simultaneously, a reduction in tariffs on the inputs of SMI
will make them more competitive and should place them in a better position to
service large industry. Second, lower tariff protection would enable cheaper
and higher quality raw materials to be imported which would benefit specific
subsectors in which SMI predominate, such as garments and leather. Third, a
reduction in the capital intensity of investment is expected to generate
employment, thus stimulating demand for consumer goods thereby benefitting SMI
which, in large part, produce for the local market. The recent improvements
in the export regime in the form of increased fiscal incentives, provision
of financing, simplified export/import procedures and expanded access to
/1 Further background and details regarding these reforms and their imple-
mentation may be found in the President's Report entitled, "Structural
Adjustment Loan to the Republic of the Philippines" (Report No. P2872-PH,
dated August 21, 1980).
/2 The Industrial Finance Project (Report No. 3331-PH), approved by the
Bank's Board of Executive Directors on May 7, 1981.



- 6 -
bonded manufacturing warehouses could provide the necessary impetus and
infrastructure support to encourage SMI to break into the export market. The
recently introduced financial sector reforms are also likely to benefit SMI.
First, the removal of interest rate ceilings would enable private financial
institutions to assess a charge for the transaction costs and risk associated
with their lending which would encourage them to lend to SMI from their own
resources. Second, the greater banking authority provided to thrift banks,
which are largely located in rural areas, would broaden the access to credit
for SMI.
1.11      Under the second phase of the Government's industrial policy
reforms, the Board of Investments (BOI) would undertake a major reform of the
industrial incentive system. The new system would compensate more directly
and fully for market imperfections that have hitherto inhibited export
production, employment generation and regional dispersal of industry. Special
features in the administration of the incentives system would be introduced to
make the investment incentive system more accessible to smaller firms and
those located outside Metro Manila. Also, BOI and MTI would introduce the
concept of sector development programs for policy design at the industry
level. These programs would outline a strategy for the development of the
industrial subsector over time and identify subsector specific institutional
and policy constraints that require remedial and supporting actions. This is
likely to be particularly beneficial to SMI which tend to concentrate in a few
key industrial subsectors (para. 1.07).
1.12      SMI Sector Policy and Development Strategy.  The Government views
SMI as important in achieving its industrial development objectives. First,
being labor intensive, SMI are in a position to create employment at a low
cost-per-job and simultaneously bring about a more equitable distribution of
income. Second, SPI are an important element in the Government's countryside
development program as SMI generally produce for local markets and are less
dependent on infrastructure than large industry. Third, SMI often utilize
indigenous resources and are becoming increasingly export oriented. Given the
importance of SMI in the industrial development of the country, the Govern-
ment, through MTI, has issued its SMI Policy and Strategy Paper for the 1980s
which reaffirms Government commitment to the development and promotion of the
SMI sector and represents the first comprehensive industrial strategy
statement issued by the Government on the SMI sector (Annex 1). Implement-
ation of this Strategy Statement would be reviewed periodically in consult-
ation with the Bank.
1.13      The following are some of the more important instruments contained
in the SMI Policy and Strategy Paper to achieve the objectives listed above:
(a)  Geographical dispersion of SMI:  Geographical dispersion of SMI
will be promoted through: streamlining and adding special fea-
tures to the incentive system which would make it more accessible
to smaller firms and those located outside Metro Manila; regional
industry studies; increasing the regional focus of SMI assistance
programs and institutions; strengthening regional investment
incentives; and establishing regionally dispersed industrial
estates.



- 7 -
(b)  Subsector development planning:  MTI will undertake both nation-
wide and region-specific SMI subsector studies to identify
subsector-wide and region-specific problems affecting industry
performance. These will serve as the basis for designing SMI
assistance programs through relevant agencies.
(c)  Access to financial resources:  To broaden the scope of financing
available to SMI, the Government will: support venture capital
corporations (VCC) to provide equity to SMI; continue to provide
guarantee schemes to reduce the collateral requirements for SMI
borrowers; adjust, over time, interest rates for SMI lending to be
in line with prevailing market rates to encourage greater partici-
pation of private financial institutions thereby increasing the
available channels of SMI lending, and develop additional financing
schemes for the provision of working capital.
(d)  Strengthening technical assistance:  The technical assistance
agencies servicing SMI will cooperate to expand and strengthen the
following services: business counselling for individual firms or
industry groups and the preparation of SMI project feasibility
stuadies. Technology delivery and quality control assistance will
be improved with the introduction of a referral system to be oper-
ated by SBAC/MASICAP /I which is the regional extension arm of MTI.
(e)  Development of technologies and products: The Government will
increase the emphasis of technological research oriented towards
S5MI products and production processes. To this end, SBAC/MASICAP
will help establish pilot projects that apply and test the results
of these research activities.
(f)  Development of common services/facilities for SMI:  The Government
will assist SMI in identifying and establishing services that
might be provided more economically through common facilities.
While the Government is willing to participate in the establishment
and initial operation of these facilities, they are expected to be
taken over ultimately by private investors or SMI industry
associations.
SMI Technical Assistance Programs
1.14      The Philippines has a large number of public and private institu-
tions and agencies offering a wide range of managerial, technical, training,
marketing and financial assistance to SMIs. Some of the more important
programs are discussed below.
lI Small Business Advisory Centers (SBAC)/Medium and Small ndustries
Coordinated Action Program (MASICAP).



1.15      The SBAC/MASICAP Program.  While there is a vast number of technical
agencies servicing the SMI sector, the SBAC/MASICAP program is the only one
with a broad outreach and a presence in the regions for the delivery of
technical assistance to SMI. Both the SBAC and MASICAP programs were
established in 1974 and were meant to be complementary; the MASICAP program
was to assist SMI entrepreneurs in preparing project feasibility studies for
institutional financing while the SBACs were to provide SMI entrepreneurs with
assistance to overcome operational problems. Over time, the SBAC and MASICAP
programs experienced considerable overlap in clients, services and physical
facilities and it was decided to merge the programs in July 1980. The merger
of the Ministries of Trade and Industries in July 1981 resulted in the
SBAC/MASICAP program taking over the marketing functions of the Trade
Assistance Centers previously administered by the Ministry of Trade. MTI's
Bureau of Small and Medium Industries (BSMI), with its staff of 53 (year-end
1981), now serves as the Manila-based Head Office of the SBAC/MASICAP
Program.
1.16      The main functions of the SBAC/MASICAP program to date are:
(a) preparing feasibility studies and loan applications; (b) counselling
entrepreneurs on a range of problems; (c) operating as a referral service
between entrepreneurs and other technical assistance agencies; and (d) under-
taking industry level activities such as group counselling, preparation of
industry studies and assistance in the formation of industry associations.
The move towards industry level assistance is of recent origin and is a clear
departure from SBAC/MASICAP's traditional operations.  This type of assistance
is being encouraged as many problems are found to be industry-wide rather than
firm-specific. With the introduction of the "Kilusang Kabuhayan at Kaunlaran"
(KKK) program (para. 1.22) in late 1981, SBAC/MASICAP staff have been required
to prepare and implement projects eligible for KKK funding. At year-end 1981,
SBAC/MASICAP had a staff of 277 which is expected to increase to about 600 by
year-end 1985. The present and projected staffing appears to be adequate to
carry out SBAC/MASICAP's regular but expanding operations and to provide
limited assistance to the KKK program. MTI is also currently considering the
functional integration of the SBAC/MASICAP program with other technical
assistance programs. The Government has agreed to provide BSMI and the
SBAC/MASICAP program with the staff and budgetary resources necessary to
continue to carry out their requirements under the project, and to consult
with the Bank prior to introducing any material changes affecting the
administration of BSMI and the SBAC/MASICAP program.
1.17      Under the Bank's first SMI loan (Loan 1120-PH, approved in 1975),
US$0.7 million was provided for establishing regional SBAC offices which
enabled SBAC to develop a physical presence in each of the country's
12 regions.  Under the second SMI loan (Loan 1727-PH, approved in 1979),
US$0.5 million was allocated to MASICAP to strengthen the staffing of MASICAP,



-9-
thereby upgrading the quality of its services to SMI entrepreneurs./1
Performance under the two previous loans has been satisfactory (paras. 2.02-
2.03).
1.18      The SBAC/MASICAP program operated from 12 centers and 35 subcenters
with an operating budget for 1981 of P 23.1 million (US$2.9 million).  The
entrepreneur counselling done by SBAC/MASICAP has increased sharply and
currently covers around 250 cases per quarter as against an average of around
70 per quarter during the period 1975-1980.  In addition to client
counselling, SBAC/MASICAP provides referral and information services and
undertakes case studies; 265 such cases were handled in the third quarter of
1981.  Over a five-year period, July 1975-June 1980, it was found that a high
proportion of SBAC's recommendations had been implemented by its clients.
Given its wide regional coverage, the value accorded its advice by clients,
and the broadening of its functions from client counselling to industry level
activities, SB3AC/MASICAP is a unique regional assistance delivery mechanism
worthy of furither support.
1.19      The National Cottage Industries Development Authority (NACIDA).
NACIDA, a government agency, was established to organize, promote and provide
technical assistance to cottage industries. The NACIDA program was adminis-
tered by the Ministry of Trade until it was transferred to MOI in September
1980. Historically, NACIDA (unlike SBAC/MASICAP) had the power to accredit
cottage industries to be eligible for fiscal and other benefits (i.e., raw
material sourcing, and tax relief). NACIDA staff themselves provide cottage
industry entrepreneurs with courses on production technology to upgrade their
operations; over the period 1972-80, NACIDA undertook 3,000 training programs
or an average of 322 courses per year. The objective of NACIDA's raw
materials program is to stabilize the price and supply of raw materials
critical to the production of cottage industry manufacturers. NACIDA has also
played a leading role in administering financial programs for cottage
industries such as the Livelihood Programs of the Ministry of Human
Settlements and the recently introduced Cottage Industry Guarantee Loan Fund
(CIGLF). NACIDA has also been given the mandate to market cottage industry
output, which it is doing by displaying cottage industry products at its
display centers. At the end of 1981, NACIDA had a staff of 868 of whom 270
were at head office and 598 in the regions. There is some functional
duplication in the operations of NACIDA and SBAC/MASICAP in that they both
/1 At the time of the second SMI loan, a significant proportion of MASICAP
staff were student volunteers and it was felt MASICAP needed some high
quality permanent staff to provide the students with the necessary
guidance. MASICAP has now stopped using student volunteers.



- 10 -
service cottage industries by providing/arranging training for entrepreneurs
and preparing feasibility studies. However, the focus of the two programs
differs as, unlike SBAC/MASICAP, NACIDA has a regulatory/administrative role.
The MTI has indicated that it is considering changing the focus of the NACIDA
program to enable it to play a more active role in identifying cottage
industry products with growth potential.  In addition, the eventual merger of
the SBAC/MASICAP and NACIDA programs is also being considered. Before a
merger is brought about, the operations and staffing of NACIDA will have to be
reviewed (para. 4.51).
1.20      Technical Institutes.  At present there is a series of technical
institutes doing specialized product research. Some of the more important of
these for SMI are: the Metals Industry Research and Development Center;
Forest Products Research and Industries Development Commission; the Food
Technology Research Department; the Food and Nutrition Research Institute; and
the Design Center of the Philippines. The main weakness of many of these
institutes is that they do not have a regional delivery organization which
would disseminate their research findings. Under the project, the SBAC/
MASICAP program will utilize the expertise of the technical institutes to
upgrade SMI operations by using their facilities and services for entre-
preneur training.
SMI Financial Assistance Programs
1.21      Traditionally, the major sources of term credit for the SMI sector
have been DBP and IGLF which have provided funds at below market rates to the
SMI sector. Private Development Banks (PDBs) have also been active in pro-
viding credit to cottage arnd srmall-scal2 industries. in addition to these,
the Government has recently established several new financing programs to
service the SMI sector.
1.22      The KKK Program.  The nation-wide development movement called
"Kilusang Kabuhayan at Kaunlaran" (KKK) was launched in August 1981; its
objective is to transform the country's 39,000 barangays into self-reliant
productive units. A distinction must be made between KKK accredited
institutions and their projects, and KKKI funded projects. All existing
government programs (such as IGLF, CIGLF) have been accredited to the KKK
program without the accreditation having in any way changed their fundamental
characteristics or providing them with any KKK funds. KKK funded projects,
however, are locally initiated economic enterprises which are provided with
interest-free and low interest loans (12%). Resource requirements of KKK
funded projects and KKK accredited institutions for the next seven years have
been estimated at about P 11 billion and an initial capital fund of P 1
billion /1 has been allocated for KKK funded projects from national budgetary
resources.  The fundamental operating concept behind the KKK program is the
/1 Of this P 1 billion, P 300 million will be used for collateral-free,
interest-free loans; the balance of the fund will be lent at 12% p.a.
through DBP, Land Bank of the Philippines and Philippine National Bank.



- 11 -
development of prototype projects for all key economic sectors as a basis
tor local community development. Distribution of KKK funds between
agriculture, livestock, forestry, housing or SMI projects has not been
determined although the initial thrust of the program is directed towards
agriculture and forestry. KKK funded projects are likely to have very
ditterent characteristics trom projects funded by KKK accredited agencies,
some of which would be funded under the proposed project. For the KKK
funded program, the major differences are likely to be that: the target
groups to be benefitted are cooperatives tormed from poverty groups, such as
landless workers, subsistence fishermen, urban slum dwellers and cultural
minorities; the projects to be financed would be selected by the Municipal
Development Council chaired by the local mayor; and project appraisal and
supervision criteria are likely to be less stringent than for projects
financed through Bank resources.
1.23      Venture Capital Corporations (VCCs).  Most government-assisted
tinancing programs for SMI have concentrated on providing SMI with debt
financing. In order to broaden the equity base of SMI, the Government in
late 1980 decided to promote VCCs. There are currently 15 incorporated VCCs
and 3 VCCs in the process of being incorporated. The total paid-in capital
of a VCC is P 5 million and the ownership structure is 60% private (com-
mercial bank) and 40% Government. The VCCs provide SMI with equity finance
which is typically viewed as a 5-year investment with the project sponsor
buying back the equity at the end of the period, and quasi-equity, which is
essentially short-term transaction financing (2-4 months) whereby inventories
for a particular order are financed with over 50% of the profit on the
transaction accruing to the VCC. The total volume of business done by VCCs
has been estimated at only P 7-8 million (about US$1 million), of which a
major part is transaction financing. The major reasons for this low volume
of business are difficulties experienced by VCCs in procuring financially
viable projects, and the collateral oriented, banker mentality of VCC staff,
most of whom are ex-bankers.
1.24      Cottage Industry Guarantee Loan Fund (CIGLF).  A loan fund of
P 800 million was launched by the Government in March 1981 for the promotion
and development of cottage industries. CIGLF loans have a maximum size of
P 100,000 (US$12,345) with an interest rate of 12% plus a guarantee fee of
2% for the unsecured portion of the loan. The lead agency in administering
the CIGLF program is NACIDA which is responsible for identifying clients and
doing the project feasibility studies (PFS). The PFS are then referred to
either DBP or Philippine National Bank (PNB) for project review, approvals
and disbursiement of tunds. NACIDA is responsible for project supervision.
As of December 1981, approximately P 43.6 million (US$5.4 million) had
been approved under CIGLF for 800 cottage industries.
Interagency Coordination of SMI Policy and Programs
1.25      To coordinate the operations of the various ageno; g s?-vicing the
SMI sector, the Government, in 1974, established the Commission (later



- 12 -
Council) for SMI. The Council, however, suffered from lack of leadership
and funds, as also low level interagency representation and was abolished
in the government reorganization of July 1981. In the future, interagency
coordination will take a different form. The MTI will take the lead role in
SMI policy and development activities as specified in the "SMI Policy and
Strategy Paper." An External Affairs Group has already been established
within MTI's BSMI and is currently engaged in: (a) establishing bilateral
"Memoranda of Agreement"' with some of the key agencies for specific
operational activities which were reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank
at negotiations; (b) taking the initiative in resolving SMI policy issues
with the agencies concerned;/l and (c) gathering and disseminating
comprehensive information on assistance programs for SMI./2 Thus far, MTI's
new multipronged approach seems to have made a good beginning in improving
coordination between some of the more important agencies serving the SMI
sector.
1.26      At present, there is a vast number of agencies servicing the SMI
sector, most of which are totally unaware of programs offered by other
agencies, resulting in considerable duplication of effort. For these reasons,
it has been decided to fund a study under this project to: identify
associations servicing the SMI sector; review their operations with a view to
strengthening them; and develop a mechanism to coordinate their operations
(para. 4.51).
II. BANK LENDING STRATEGY FOR THE INDUSTRIAL AND SMI SECTORS
Bank Lending Strategy for the Industrial Sector
2.01      Until recently, the Bank's involvement in the industrial sector has
chiefly been in the provision of resources to industry through development
finance companies and financial schemes (DBP, Private Development Corporation
of the Philippines, Philippines Investment Systems Organization, and IGLF).
Since the late 1970s, however, the Bank has been trying to implement a broader
strategy in the industrial sector which has a stronger policy focus. The
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I), represents the Bank's first attempt at
implementing its new macro-lending strategy by concentrating on issues related
to the trade regime and investment climate (para. 1.09). The Industrial
Finance Project provides resources to financial institutions for onlending to
/1  For example, the recent change in definition of cottage, small and
medium industry.
/2  The recent publication, "Programs and Services for Cottage Small and
Medium Industries" was produced jointly by BSMI with the Philippine
Chamber of Commerce and Industry. This publication lists some of the SMI
programs being offered. The study on SMI activities to be financed under
this project (para. 4.51) will look into this issue in greater depth.



- 13 -
medium- and large-scale industry and focuses mainly on the financial reforms
necessary to complement the Government's industrial development objectives.
Due chiefly to t:he knowledge and experience gained through these projects,
the Bank is now beginning to supplement its policy-oriented strategy with
more specialized, subsector loans. A loan for textile sector restructuring
was approved by the Board in April 1982 and a proposed metal-working subsector
loan is being considered. In future lending to SMI, greater focus will be
placed on specific subsectors and regional development.
Bank Lending Strategy for the SMI Sector
2.02      Bank Group Past Lending to the SMI Sector.  The Bank's past SMI
strategy in the Philippines has been largely aimed at transferring resources
to the SMI sector and developing the institutional channels necessary to
service this sector. Since 1975, the Bank has loaned about US$110 million to
the Philippines for SMI development, helping to finance around 2,700 SMI
subprojects and providing a limited amount of technical assistance.  The
Bank's first SMI loan (Loan 1120-PH), for US$30 million was approved in 1975.
However, at this stage, neither the Government nor the Bank had a well-
developed approach to SMI lending in the Philippines. Hence, with the Bank
essentially experimenting with various financing/technical channels to service
the sector, the first project was complex. Under the loan, financing was made
available to SMI entrepreneurs through DBP and IGLF; lending to industrial
cooperatives was undertaken on an experimental basis through the National
Electrification Administration (NEA); in addition, technical assistance was
provided through the SBAC Program of the MOI. According to a recently
completed Project Completion Report (PCR) on Loan 1120-PH, the extent to which
the project objectives of resource transfer and institutional development were
met under the loan varied by component. In general, the DBP, IGLF and SBAC
components were successful, while lending to NEA was much less so, chiefly
because the assistance required to establish successful industrial coopera-
tives was underestimated.  The Bank achieved some institution-building impact
with DBP, although much remained to be accomplished. The institution-building
impact on IGLF was somewhat greater, even though private financial sector
participation in the IGLF program continued to be decidedly limited. As a
result of the loan, SBAC was able to develop a regional presence and was in a
position to provide technical assistance and business and managerial counsel-
ling to SMI. The PCR recommends that technical assistance be more sharply
focused on industry subsector problems and that DBP's management of its SMI
operations be strengthened. The lessons learned from the first SMI project
have been taken into account in formulating the proposed project.
2.03      Unde!r the Bank's second SMI loan (Loan 1727-PH) for US$25 million
approved in 1979, a concerted effort was made to increase both the number and
the types of financial institutions participating in the IGLF program.  To
this end, IGLF's operating policies and procedures were modified.  In addition
to providing financial incentives, it was considered advisable to reduce the
administrative costs faced by private financial institutions in their SMI
lending.  It was found that while MASICAP did prepare project feasibility
studies for SMI entrepreneurs, the assumptions on which they were based tended



- 14 -
to be unrealistically optimistic, resulting in a high level of arrears for
MASICAP-prepared projects. As a result, MASICAP-prepared studies were not
being used as an input by financing institutions.  Consequently, a small
component of the second SMI loan (US$500,000) was used to upgrade the quality
of MASICAP's operations. The impact of the MASICAP component is difficult to
assess owing to changes in MASICAP's operations as a result of the integration
of MASICAP with SBAC in 1980 (para. 1.15). Experience to date shows that
participation in the IGLF program has increased substantially and the quality
of portfolio is improving (paras. 4.33 and 4.43). As of October 31, 1981, the
IGLF component of Loan 1727-PH of US$24.5 million equivalent was fully
disbursed, significantly ahead of the appraisal estimate; disbursements under
the MASICAP component were slower than anticipated./I
2.04      In addition to the two SMI loans, components were earmarked for SMI
operations under Loans 1190-PH and 1572-PH to DBP which were approved in 1976
and 1978, respectively. Unlike the IGLF program, DBP's SMI portfolio has been
adversely affected by high and rising arrears; major institutional
improvements are needed to strengthen DBP's administration of its SMI program
(paras. 4.04-4.16). The qualitative impact of the Bank's lending to the SMI
sector is given in the table below.
IMPACT OF BANK SMI LENDING
Number of      Total       Incremental
Loan    subprojects   subpro-        employment   Cost per
Loan                  amount    financed    ject cost        generated         job
(US$ million)            (US$ million)                     (US$)
SMI I
(Loan 1120-PH)         30.0        801          60.1            17,953        3,350
SMI II
(Loan 1727-PH)         25.0        361          56.0            14,970       3,741
DBP (Loan 1190-PH)    27.2/a       696          53.8            11,550       4,658
DBP (Loan 1572-PH)     29.7/a      811          43.2             8,373        5,160
/a SMI component of loan.
/1  Disbursements for the MASICAP component under the second SMI loan have
been slow owing to: (i) the merger of the SBAC and MASICAP programs;
(ii) a Government imposed freeze on hiring by Ministries; (iii) bureau-
cratic disbursement procedures between Ministries; and (iv) recently
issued Government procurement guidelines which restrict the purchase of
vehicles and computers.



- 15 -
2.05      IFC has supported the SMI sector by financing three projects:  a
leasing company aimed at assisting SMI; a small business investment company to
provide equity and transaction financing to SMI; and special purpose corpora-
tions which are subsidiaries of commercial and thrift banks and provide an
integrated package of short- and medium-term peso and long-term foreign
exchange loans supplemented by business advisory services to SMI.
2.06      The Rationale and Strategy for Future Bank Lending to the SMI
Sector. While the Bank's first two SMI sector loans were, in many ways, both
innovative and pioneering, their scope, in terms of the type of small and
medium enterprises assisted and technical assistance provided, was limited.
Building on lessons learned from previous loans and detailed SMI sector
knowledge gained through a recently completed Bank case study of Philippine
SMI,/1 the proposed loan would, in many ways, be more comprehensive and the
technical assistance more focused than under previous loans.  Under the
proposed SMI loan, nation-wide and region-specific SMI studies would be under-
taken with a view to promoting those industries which have a comparative
advantage. The sector-specific institutional and policy constraints so
identified would be addressed through sector development programs. While the
long-term strategy for Bank SMI lending is to channel funds through an apex
unit, the current sophistication/maturity of the financial institutions
presently servicing the sector require greater Bank involvement.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Description
3.01      Objectives.  The proposed project is designed to broaden the provi-
sion of financial and technical assistance to SMI within the framework of the
Government's SMI sector strategy. The project would attempt to achieve these
objectives by: (a) developing the institutional capabilities of some of the
key financing institutions servicing the sector; (b) concentrating technical
assistance on removing bottlenecks faced by regional priority SMI subsectors
and improving the coordination of technical assistance programs for the
sector; (c) increasing the involvement of the private sector in the design and
provision of assistance to SMI; and (d) helping the Government address some
selected policy and subsectoral problems which impede the further development
of the SMI sector.
3.02      Description.  Under the project, financing would be made available
to the entire spectrum of SMI, ranging from cottage to medium-scale, and would
cover both manufacturing and manufacturing-related service industries. A wide
range of financial intermediaries would be used to channel these funds with
emphasis placed on privately-owned financial institutions, namely those
/1   Small Enterprises and Development Policy in the Philippines: A Case
Study (World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 468), July 1981.



- 16 -
operating under the IGLF program and the PDBs, which are widely established in
the Philippines and which would, for the first time, be receiving Bank funds
for onlending to SMI. The project would also continue assisting the SMI
program of the Government-owned DBP which has an extensive branch network.
The technical assistance component under the project would be channelled
through MTI's BSMI and would be used to: (a) help expand the SBAC/MASICAP
network and scope of operations and enhance their operational efficiency
through the provision of transportation vehicles, equipment and reference
libraries for the regional centers, subcenters and Head Office and by
providing training courses and technical consultancy assistance for
SBAC/MASICAP and BSMI staff, and SMI entrepreneurs; (b) provide SBAC/MASICAP
with the funds necessary to address the constraints hindering the development
of priority subsectors on a test case basis through the implementation of
pilot projects; and (c) undertake studies on issues relevant to the
development of the SMI sector.  As part of the preparation for the proposed
project, the Government has developed, for the first time, an SMI Sector
Strategy which is discussed in paras. 1.12 and 1.13 and is presented in
Annex 1. Details of each component and the institutions charged with
implementing the project are presented in Chapter IV of this report.
Project Cost and Financing
3.03      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$282.0
million, of which US$130.0 million would be in foreign exchange and US$152.0
million in local currency. The proposed SMI loan of US$132 million
equivalent would finance the foreign exchange cost of the project and the
capitalized front-end fee of about US$2 million. Further details on project
costs and financing are provided below.



- 17 -
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Foreign
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   as % of
---- P million          --- US$ million ---    total
Credit Component        1193.1 1020.6 2213.7   147.3  126.0  273.3          46
DBP/SMI                293.2  247.1  540.3    36.2   30.5   66.7          46
DBP/PDBs               223.6  190.3  413.9    27.6   23.5   51.1          46
IGLF                   676.3  583.2 1259.5    83.5   72.0  155.5          46
Technical Assistance
Component               38.1   32.4   70.5       4.7    4.0    8.7        46
SBAC/MASICAP            17.0   13.0   30.0        2.1    1.6    3.7       43
Pilot project fund    13.8   12.1   26.0          1.7    1.5    3.2       47
Studies                  3.2    4.1    7.3       0.4    0.5    0.9        55
Contingencies            4.1    3.2    7.2       0.5    0.4    0.9        44
Total Project Cost    1231.2 1053.0 2284.2   152.0  130.0  282.0            46
Front-end fee on
Bank loan              -      16.2   16.2      -       2.0    2.0    100
Total Financing
Required              1231.2 1069.2 2300.4   152.0  132.0  284.0          46



- 18 -
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Total                  Financing
project    IBRD      Government/    End-user
cost                financing
institutions
Credit Component                273.3(100%)123.0 (45%)  82.0 (30%)  68.3 (25%)
DBP/SMILE                      60.0        27.0         18.0         15.0
DBP/PDBs                       46.3        21.0         13.8         11.5
IGLF                          140.0        63.0         42.0         35.0
Unallocated amount             27.0        12.0          8.2          6.8
Technical Assistance
Component                       8.7(100%)  7.0 (80%)   0.2  (2%)   1.5 (18%)
SBAC/MASICAP /a                 3.7         3.2          0.2          0.3 /b
Pilot project fund              3.2         2.3          -            0.9 /c
Studies                         0.9         0.9          -
Contingencies                   0.9         0.6          -            0.3
Total for Both Components       282.0(100%)130.0 (46%)  82.2 (29%)  69.8 (25%)
Front-end fee                   2.0         2.0          -            -
Total Project Cost              284.0(100%)132.0 (46%)  82.2 (29%)  69.8 (25%)
/a Financing under the SBAC/MASICAP subcomponent includes:
Total cost   Bank financing
- US$ million -
(i) Equipment    1.0              0.6
(ii) Training      2.7             2.6
Total         3.7             3.2
/b  Reflects payments by entrepreneurs for training and consultancy services
provided.
/c  The end-user's contribution for the pilot project may come from the
project sponsor's own resources, or as loan/equity from financial
institutions or MTI (para. 4.50).



- 19 -
3.05      For the credit component, project cost estimates have been derived
from detailed operational projections provided by DBP and IGLF which assume
a three-year commitment period (October 1982 to September 1985)./l An
amount equivalent to approximately 10% of the total credit component of the
proposed loan has been held in reserve so that during project implementation
it would be possible for the Bank to allocate these resources to those
institutions which commit their resources most effectively. For the technical
assistance component, which has a commitment/disbursement period of four to
five years, the total project cost is based on detailed estimates provided by
MTI;/l a 10% contingency allowance (which includes an 8% price contingency)
has been provided to cover unforeseen cost overruns and additional
requirements with respect to training or any other form of technical
assistance.
3.06      The proposed loan would be made to the Government of the Philippines
and would cover about 46% of the total project cost. For the credit
component, the Bank would finance 45% of the total credit component cost,
representing the estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange cost of the
component./2 For the technical assistance component, the Bank would finance
80% of the total component cost. Items to be financed under the component
include: equipment/transportation vehicles and books for BSMI and the
SBAC/MASICAP subcomponent; training (including technical consultancy) for
SBAC/MASICAP, and BSMI staff and SMI entrepreneurs; fixed assets and working
capital for pilot projects; and consultants to undertake SMI related studies.
Approximately US$82.2 million in counterpart funds would be provided by the
Government/financial institutions, and the Government, through budgetary
allocations, would provide MTI with about US$0.2-1.5 million for financing the
balance of technical assistance costs./3
/1  These detailed projections and estimates are available in the project
file.
/2  Under previous SMI loans, the Bank provided 60% of the total project
costs; recent studies show, however, that the direct and indirect
foreign exchange cost of projects financed by DBP and IGLF has decreased
to about 46% of the total project cost.
/3 Depending on the extent of entrepreneur training and pilot project costs
funded by MTI (paras. 4.49 and 4.50).



- 20 -
IV INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
4.01      DBP was established in 1958 as an autonomous Government-owned
development bank and is by far the largest supplier of long-term credit in the
Philippines. DBP's financing operations encompass almost all segments of the
economy concentrating on the industrial and agricultural sectors. Total Bank
loans approved for DBP amount to US$388.5 million of which US$218 million is
for industry, US$150.5 million for agriculture and US$20 million for shipping.
The Bank's industrial lending to DBP dates back to 1972 when a Bank mission
did a preliminary evaluation of DBP which revealed serious weaknesses in its
organizational and financial structure. Remedial measures were taken with
respect to organizational restructuring and DBP's financial position was
strengthened through a share capital increase and progressively more market-
oriented interest rates. Despite these measures, DBP's profitability
continued to be low, principally as a result of its low collection levels.
Under the Bank's Industrial Finance Loan (para. 2.01), an Action Program was
developed to deal with DBP's remaining organizational, operational and
financial problems. Some of the key elements covered under the Action Program
are: (a) a review, on a case-by-case basis, of its large projects to deter-
mine the status of its portfolio and the actions necessary to rehabilitate
problem projects; (b) steps to improve its collection performance; (c) a
review of its interest rate policy; (d) formulation of institution-wide
policies on refinancing and conversion of arrears into equity investments; and
(e) developmLent of policies for Government behest projects. Key elements of
the Action Program which have so far been implemented by DBP are: (a) a
review of its interest rate structure which resulted in DBP raising its
lending rate in 1981 for both its peso and foreign currency funds, thus
bringing them largely in line with market rates; (b) reorganization of DBP's
Industrial Projects Department along the lines agreed; (c) implementation of a
project-by-project review of its portfolio; and (d) formulation of DBP-wide
guidelines to improve its cash collections. In general, DBP's implementation
of the Action Program has been satisfactory.
4.02      Direct lending by DBP to the SMI sector is undertaken through its
Small and Medium Industry Lending Department (SMILE) and branches. There
have, so far, been three Bank loans approved for DBP for its SMI operations
amounting to about US$70 million./1 To help resolve its long-standing
operational and institutional problems related to its direct SMI lending,
DBP has formulated an Action Program (Annex 2, Attachment 2), acceptable to
the Bank, which will be implemented during the course of the project. In
addition to its direct lending, DBP indirectly finances the SMI sector through
its PDB rediscount operations which are managed by its Department of
Development and Rural Banks (DDRB). The Bank, under this project, will, for
the first time, become involved with DBP's PDB operations.
/1 In two of the loans to DBP, specific components were earmarked for DBP's
SMI lending.



- 21 -
4.03       In August 1981, there was a change in DBP's senior management and a
new Chairman was appointed. The new Chairman has been in office for about
six months and appears to be extremely competent and concerned about upgrading
DBP's operations.
1. DBP's Direct SMI Lending (SMILE)
4.04      Background.  In 1971, DBP launched its countryside development
lending program to stimulate SMI growth, particularly outside Metro Manila.
In 1973, DBP established the Industrial Projects Departments II to handle
small loans; the Department was renamed SMILE in 1980. SMILE is in charge
of processing all SMI loans in Metro Manila and in supervising branch SMI
operations. In addition to its regular SMI lending operations, SMILE
finances and/or administers a number of special financing schemes (SFS) that
are geared to meeting the needs of specific SMI subgroups (Annex 2, Table 1).
Under its regular SMI lending operations, DBP provides fixed asset and working
capital finance for projects in all industrial sectors. While a major part of
the funds go to manufacturing enterprises, DBP also provides financing for
some service industries, retail trade, transportation and tourism. At
present, DBP provides financing for cottage, small and medium enterprises.
However, DBP's management has recommended to the Government that DBP move away
from lending directly to cottage industries and instead expand the rediscount
mechanism currently provided by DBP for SMI loans made by PDBs to encompass
cottage industry loans made by rural banks. As in the case with previous Bank
SMI loans to DBP, only small and medium industries would be eligible for Bank
financing under this project. DBP's regional lending is done through its
network of 42 branches, 13 agencies and 9 offices whose overall activities are
coordinated by the Branches and Agencies Department (BAAD) at the Head Office.
DBP's draft Lending Strategy Statement for the project period outlining its
lending policies and guidelines is given in Annex 2, Attachment 1. This
Lending Strategy Statement would be updated, in a form acceptable to the Bank,
to include recent revisions in DBP's SMI lending policy and will be adopted by
September 30, 1982.
4.05      Operations.  In 1976, DBP approved 1,468 SMI /1 loans for
P 175.6 million. The corresponding figures for 1980 were 1,084 loans /1 for
P 178.4 million of which P 4.7 million (118 by number) were for special
financing schemes and P 5.7 million were for refinancing of loans in
arrears. In 1981, 809 loans were approved for P 195.3 million (Annex 2,
Table 2). Of the 64 branches, agencies and offices, 15 of DBP's branches
account for 63% of the total outstanding branch SMI portfolio and 31% of DBP's
total outstanding SMI portfolio as of December 31, 1981 (Annex 2, Table 3).
/1   For DBP, loans made to the same project, but for different purposes
(working capital, fixed assets or additional financing), are counted
separately.
/2 Except for 1980 when branch approvals were 53.5%.



- 22 -
4.06      SMI approvals have remained relatively constant during the period
1976-81 reflecting, in part, the poor overall investment climate in the
Philippines during that period. In addition, DBP's protracted loan
processing time and cumbersome procedures might also have deterred potential
clients from applying to DBP (para. 4.11). Of the loans approved in 1981,
3%, in value terms, went to cottage industries, 46% to small and 51% to
medium industries. In terms of amount, the manufacturing sector accounts
for over 95% of DBP's SMI approvals. During 1981, the three most important
subsectors were lumber and wood products (19.1% in value), nonmetallic
products (15.7%) and textile, apparel, twine, etc. (14.3%). Annex 2, Table 4
provides details about the characteristics of SMI approvals. DBP has made a
conscious effort to bring about greater regional dispersion of investment;
for each of the years 1976-81, Metro Manila and Southern Tagalog have
together accounted for between 42% to 54% of DBP's SMI approvals. Despite
this concentration in Metro Manila and adjoining provinces, the portfolio is
singularly less skewed than those of private financial institutions. While
the financial and economic rates of return on DBP-financed SMI projects have
been favorable, the portfolio is facing serious arrears problems (para.
4.14).
4.07      Organization.  DBP's SMILE Department is presently organized into
three project appraisal groups, one project supervision/collection group, one
planning/programming group (PPG), one branch assistant group and one
administrative group. While the current staff strength of 123 (including 1
manager and 7 assistant managers) is considered adequate to handle the
present and projected volume of operations, SMILE's present organizational
stracture has given rise to four major areas of concern:
(a)  Relationship between SMILE and the branches.  The relationship
between SMILE and the branches has been a delicate one as branch
operations have been under the jurisdiction of BAAD, and SMILE, in
practice, has had no clear functional authority over branch SMI
operations. Coordination problems are further exacerbated as all
communications from SMILE to the branches (or vice versa) have had
to be channelled through BAAD and, until recently (October 1981),
BAAD and SMILE were under the jurisdiction of different Super-
vising Governors. The internal organization of the branches has
further added to SMILE's problems. In 1978, the branches were
reorganized into two departments, one for agricultural projects
and the other for all "other" projects. Despite this, there has
been a tendency within branches to consider staff as fungible
resources and, consequently, there was no well defined staff for
SMI operations in the branches who could be trained or with whom
SMILE could liaise directly. As a result, SMILE has not provided
the branches with any guidance on SMI operations nor has it
performed any quality control function vis-a-vis the branches.



- 23 -
(b)  Administration of special financing schemes (SFS).  As mentioned
earlier, SMILE currently administers eight SFS in addition to its
regular SMI lending (para. 4.04). As the same staff handle all
these programs, it has not been possible to develop specific staff
expertise in any one type of operation. In addition, the
administration of both regular SMI operations and SFS strains
staff resources and results in neither being administered as
effectively as might be possible.
(c)  Inadequate project supervision.  As the function of project super-
vision is merged with loan collections under the present
organizational setup, the tendency has been to focus on
collections at the expense of supervision to the extent that
almost no routine project supervision takes place.
(d)  Monitoring the SMI program.  SMILE's Program and Planning Group
(PPG) is expected to: (i) monitor the impact of DBP's SMI
program; (ii) develop a future lending program; and (iii)
undertake research and special studies. However, at present, none
of these functions is being adequately handled. SMILE's current
record-keeping or information system appears to have severe
problems such that current data on operations are often
unavailable or unreliable. With regard to PPG's other two
functions, the unit appears to lack staff with the necessary
expertise to develop future lending programs and undertake
research and special studies relating to DBP's SMI program.
4.08      In order to resolve some of the problems mentioned above, DBP has
decided to reorganize the SMILE Department. The proposed new organizational
chart is given in Annex 2, Attachment 2. The main features of the reorganized
SMILE will be: (a) a branch group will be established to review branch
appraisal reports, oversee branch SMI operations, provide branches with needed
assistance and receive operational branch data; (b) an SFS group will be
separately staffed from other operating groups so that the administration of
the SFS does not impinge on DBP's regular SMI operations; (c) the establish-
ment of four project appraisal/supervision groups in charge of DBP's regular
Head Office SMI opeations. Within these groups, appraisal and supervision
functions will be handled by separate and distinct groups of staff;/1
(d) administrative collection functions will be removed from project super-
vision and will be placed under the administrative group; and (e) the PPG will
be retained and strengthened through training.
4.09      In addition to the reorganization, in order to improve the moni-
toring of DBP's SMI operations, it was agreed at negotiations that a manage-
ment information systems (MIS) specialist be appointed to assist the SMILE
manager in handling SIl data-based problems and in developing an effective MIS
program. The scope of the study and main function of the specia7.ist were
also agreed upon at negotiations. The MIS study is to be completedi and 5ent
/1  Both appraisal and supervision groups will be organ-zed on an industrial
subsector basis.



- 24 -
to the Bank for review by September 30, 1982. With respect to SMI operations
in the branches, in December 1981, specific staff were designated in each of
the branches to handle SMI operations and were placed under the functional
authority of the SMILE Department with regard to SMI lending.  In the case of
the 15 most active branches (para. 4.05), the SMI staff so assigned would
concentrate on SMI lending operations exclusively. The SMI staff in the
branches will be provided with comprehensive training on SMI project
evaluation and supervision. Initially, these training courses will
concentrate on the SMI staff of the 15 most active branches but will later
cover all SMI branch staff. DBP's management has confirmed that rotation of
SMI staff in the branches would be minimized so as to provide continuity and
to make proper use of the training to be provided.
4.10      Operating Policies.  DBP's operating policies for its SMI lending
are generally comprehensive and well formulated. However, DBP currently
classifies its loans as cottage, small and medium on the basis of the size
of the DBP loan and not on the asset size of the borrowing enterprise. As
the interest rates charged to cottage, small and medium enterprises differ
substantially (15%, 18% and 21% respectively), it was felt that the loan
size definition could produce distortions; DBP has therefore decided to
adopt the asset size definition in determining the interest rate to be
applied. This definition will also be uniformly applied for all DBP's SMI
operations irrespective of source of financing.
4.11      Appraisal Procedures.  In general, the quality of appraisal
reports at Head Office is satisfactory, although there is a tendency to
emphasize collateral coverage rather than project viability. DBP's Lending
Strategy states, however, that projects financed are to be economically and
financially viable, and increased monitoring of the Head Office and branch
appraisals should result in improvement.  The quality of branch appraisals
is weak with indications that key concepts and analytical tools in project
appraisal are not understood by branch appraisal officers. While the
training proposed for branch SMI staff (para. 4.30) should help to upgrade
the quality of branch appraisals, SMILE's branch unit should systematically
review branch appraisal reports and provide comments to the branch personnel
concerned. With regard to loan processing time, during negotiations for
Loan 1572-PH, it was agreed that DBP would try to reduce loan processing
time for SMI projects in the branches and the Head Office to 60 days and
Head Office review of branch projects, when required, to 30 days.  The
branches appear to be meeting the target, but loan processing time at the
Head Office remains long. A sample of 50 projects approved in 1980, shows
the average processing time was 131 days for Head Office and 55 days



- 25 -
for branches. It currently takes SMILE around 20-25 days to review loans
referred to it by the branches after appraisal, which is also long. Excessive
processing times have, in part, been due to poor management, lack of trained
staff and cumbersome procedures resulting in a substantial backlog of pro-
jects. To reduce processing time, SMILE staff will receive necessary training
and new procedures for streamlining appraisal procedures will be adopted.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with DBP on a program to reduce
both Head Office and branch processing time /1 to an average of 60 calendar
days, effective January 1, 1983.
4.12      Supervision Procedures.  In the case of project supervision, neither
the Head Office nor the branches carry out any form of routine preventive
supervision as staff efforts have been concentrated on loan collections
(para. 4.07(c)). Even after the 1981 reorganization of the Head Office Pro-
ject Supervision Group, only projects in arrears have been supervised. The
removal of collection functions from project supervision should help to
upgrade the quality of supervision (para. 4.08). In addition, a supervision
program for both the Head Office and the branch SMI operations has been
agreed upon at negotiations. DBP has also agreed to undertake a review of its
existing appraisal, supervision and implementation manuals on SMI operations,
with a view to updating and upgrading them. The revised manuals will be sent
to the Bank for review by December 31, 1982.
4.13      Disbursement Procedures.  Under previous SMI loans to DBP
(Loans 1120-PH, 1190-PH and 1572-PH), disbursement by the Bank to DBP was
on the basis of a statement of expenditure with the understanding that proper
documentation of subproject expenses was to be maintained by DBP and made
available to the Bank upon request. A sample review of projects financed
under Loan 1572-PH revealed some discrepancies in the documentation for which
DBP's management has agreed to take immediate remedial actions. In addition,
procedural changes needed to ensure that adequate documentation is maintained
were agreed upon during negotiations.
4.14      Quality of Portfolio.  During negotiations for Loan 1572-PH,
DBP agreed that by June 30, 1979, it would reduce its total arrears ratio to
16% of the outstanding portfolio and the portfolio affected by arrears to 40%.
Total arrears as a percentage of the outstanding portfolio declined from 19.5%
/1 Processing time will be measured from the time a loan application is
received until the requisite approval (either from the branch manager,
SMILE Department manager or the Board, depending on the loan amount) is
granted.



- 26 -
as of year-end 1978 to 11.6% as of year-end 1979 (Annex 2, Table 5). The
arrears situation, however, has deteriorated since then with arrears amounting
to 12.4% of the outstanding portfolio as of year-end 1980, and 15.7% as of
December 31, 1981./1 The deteriorating arrears situation can, in part, be
attributed to DBP s inadequate supervision of its SMI portfolio. The absolute
reduction in arrears as a percentage of the outstanding portfolio between
1978-80 has also resulted, in part, from limited refinancing, extensive
rescheduling and substantial foreclosure of accounts in arrears./2 As of
December 31, 1981, the number of loans affected by arrears was about 73%,
while by amount it was 52% (Annex 2, Table 6). The collection ratio has
decreased from 62% in 1980 to 52% in 1981. DBP has recently developed
institution-wide guidelines for rescheduling, foreclosure and write-off of
loans in arrears. As established in its Action Program (para. 4.02), DBP will
complete by December 31, 1982, a project-by-project review of the SMI
portfolio affected by arrears with a view to implementing these guidelines
(reschedule, foreclose or write-off). Given these actions, by the start of
1983, DBP would have a manageable SMI portfolio. The agreed Action Program
also establishes annual targets for improving DBP's SMI arrears ratio,
portfolio affected by arrears and collection rates during the life of the
project.
4.15      Reporting Requirements.  DBP's reporting has been a long-standing
problem and is still of uneven quality and subject to long delays. There
are several reasons for the delays: (a) fundamental record keeping problems
for SMI operations; (b) delays in reporting on branch SMI operations to BAAD;
(c) verification of branch data is time consuming; and (d) processing delays
as computer time is scarce. To help remedy these problems, DBP will: (a)
develop, with the help of a specialisc, a managcemenL information system in
SMILE so that accurate and up-to-date data is available (para. 4.09); (b) have
SMI branch staff report directly to SMILE (para. 4.08); (c) have the branches
/1 These arrears figures do not include penalty charges, which are sub-
stantial.
/2  In the Head Office alone, loans amounting to P 31.9 million,
P 19.6 million and P 22.3 million were rescheduled in 1979, 1980
and 1981 (September), respectively representing 9%, 5% and 5% of the
outstanding Head Office SMI portfolio. Foreclosures done during these
years in the Head Office were P 26.2 million in 1979 (8% of the
outstanding portfolio), P 25.0 million in 1980 (8% of the outstanding
portfolio) and P 17.6 million, in the first nine months of 1981
(9% of the outstanding portfolio). Refinancing amounted to P 5.5 mil-
lion in 1980 and P 9.1 million for the first nine months of 1981.



- 27 -
provide SMI data to SMILE on a monthly basis so that data verification can be
done on an ongoing basis; and (d) give priority in data processing to SMI./1
Reporting formats have been developed for DBP's SMI operations and further
information on the reporting to be required under the project is given in
para. 5.17.
4.16      Action Program and Tranching.  As the time required to fully
implement the Action Program (para. 4.02) is likely to be significant, it has
been proposed to disburse the DBP direct lending component (US$27 million) in
two equal tranches with disbursement of the second tranche being contingent on
progress made under the Action Program. Recommendation for release of the
second tranche will be made based on an evaluation to be conducted when the
first tranche has been disbursed. The key elements to be considered in
release of the second tranche of the loan are: (a) implementation of the
findings of the MIS study (para. 4.09); (b) reduction of loan processing time
(para. 4.11); (c) implementation of the agreed supervision program (para.
4.12); and (d) meeting the agreed targets with respect to quality of portfolio
(para. 4.14).
2. Private Development Banks (PDBs)
4.17      PDB Sector.  PDBs are small, privately-owned banks which service
limited geographic areas. As of December 31, 1981, there were 44 PDBs with
158 offices (Annex 3, Table 1). While the PDBs account for only 0.7% of the
total assets of the financial system, they perform an important role in
providing term finance to small agricultural and industrial enterprises. As
PDB loans generally go to cottage and small-scale industries, the incremental
employment generated tends to have a relatively low cost-per-job./2
4.18      As of December 31, 1981, the total outstanding loan portfolio of
PDBs amounted to P 1,527 million,/3 of which 43% was in industry, 25%
/1 DBP is currently attempting to upgrade the quality and timeliness of its
data processing. The installation of a new computer-based MIS system
is currently being undertaken bank-wide with the SMILE Department being
given high priority.
/2 A DDRB studly on the economic impact of PDB financing found that the
1,332 industrial loans granted by PDBs during 1980-81 had generated
6,727 new jobs at an average cost-per-job of about US$3,700.
/3 Excluding loans in litigation and past-dues.



- 28 -
in agriculture, 10% in real estate and 22% in miscellaneous loans (Annex 3,
Table 2). Over the five-year period 1975-80, PDB loan approvals increased
at an average annual rate of about 25%, while industrial loan approvals
increased at an average of about 30% p.a. Although PDBs provide medium- and
long-term funds to cottage and small-scale agricultural and industrial
enterprises, lending decisions are, for the most part, based on the
creditworthiness of the borrower and the collateral offered which has served
to limit arrears./1 Most PDBs do not have a formal organizational structure
as they have small staff complements and their operations are relatively
simple. Many PDBs suffer from staff shortages; in addition, PDB staff
presently lack basic project appraisal and supervision skills. Under the
project, PDBs will be required to evaluate projects on the basis of
financial and economic viability rather than just the collateral offered; in
addition, project supervision on a regular basis will be introduced. A
detailed training program has been developed to provide PDBs with the
necessary project appraisal/supervision expertise (para. 4.30).
4.19      Scope of DBP Assistance.  One of the functions assigned to DBP
under its charter was to help establish and develop the PDB system by taking
equity participations in PDBs, providing technical and managerial assist-
ance, and rediscounting loans made by PDBs. Given this role, DBP oper-
ates as the natural apex institution for onlending Bank resources to PDBs.
While the ownership of the PDBs is essentially private, as of December 31,
1981, DBP held 23.0% and the Land Bank of the Philippines 2.8%, of the
P 354.1 million equity invested in the 44 PDBs. Between 1977 and
December 31, 1981, the amount of preferred shares held by DBP has increased
from P 5.1 million in 8 PDBs to P 80.7 million in 35 PDBs. Over the
same period, outstanding rediscounts from DBP have increased from
P 96.6 million to P 349.0 million. As a result of its rediscounting
activities, DBP is represented on the Board of Directors of several PDBs.
Further details on DBP's assistance to the PDBs are provided in Annex 3,
Table 3. DBP has recently increased its rediscounting rate to PDBs from 14%
to 16%, resulting in an end-user PDB rate of 23%. However, on the basis of
DBP's current interest rate structure, DBP's own direct lending to the
cottage industry sector (which also accounts for the largest proportion of
the PDB's clientele for industrial lending), is done at 15%. In part to
resolve this conflict, DBP has stated its intention to confine itself to
providing rediscounting facilities to PDBs and rural banks for onlending to
cottage industries (para. 4.04).
/1 For the 15 PDBs for which arrears data was available, as of December 31,
1981, total arrears (principal, interest and other charges) amounted to
13.4% of the outstanding portfolio and arrears on industrial loans were
15.3% of the outstanding industrial loan portfolio (Annex 3, Table 4).



- 29 -
4.20      Accreditation.  In order to increase the availability of finance to
SMI located in rural areas, the Bank, under the proposed project, will provide
resources to PDBs through DBP's rediscount facility. While DBP has been
effective in upgrading the operations of many PDBs, the overall quality
varies greatly from bank to bank.  In order to deal with only the better
PDBs, an accreditation scheme will be introduced under the project whereby
only accredited PDBs will be eligible to draw on Bank resources. It is
proposed that DBP, through its Department of Development and Rural Banks
(DDRB), will evaluate, on the basis of criteria acceptable to the Bank,
about 15 of the better PDBs,/1 and after discussing its findings with the
Bank, will accredit those which meet the agreed criteria.  It is expected
that by loan effectiveness about 5 PDBs will have been accredited. As the
PDB system is upgraded, other PDBs will become eligible for accreditation
during the life of the project.
4.21      To be eligible for accreditation, a PDB must:  (a) be in compliance
with the rules and regulations of the Central Bank, DBP and other government
agencies; (b) not be participating in any other Bank-financed SMI program;
(c) not be in arrears with DBP; (d) not have arrears of more than 20% on
either its industrial or total loan portfolio; (e) have collection rates of
not less than 70% on either its total or industrial loan portfolio outstanding
during the preceding year; (f) have been profitable in the preceding year; and
(g) have the necessary staff expertise to handle SMI loans./2 The accredited
PDBs will be monitored closely by DDRB with respect to management, policies
and procedures, and financial and operational performance to ensure their
continued compliance with the accreditation criteria./3
4.22      As upgrading PDB operations to meet the accreditation criteria will
be costly in terms of: allocating staff to specialize in SMI, training staff
and preparing project appraisals rather than lending solely on collateral,
specific additional incentives will be made available. Accredited PDBs
/1  Of these 15 selected PDBs, 5 are located in MIetro Manila, 8 in Southern
Tagalog, and 1 each in the Visayas and Mindanao regions. As of
December 31, 1981, these 15 PDBs accounted for 60% of offices, 64%
of total staff, 62% of total assets, 66% of total outstanding loans,
and 46% of industrial loans. Other characteristics of these PDBs are
provided in Annex 3, Table 4.
/2  Training courses on SMI lending operations will be made available to
PDB staff.
/3  In order to maintain its accreditation status, the PDB will have to main-
tain an arrears ratio of not more than 20% and a collection ratio of not
less than 70% on its industrial portfolio.



- 30 -
under the proposed project will have: (a) 100% rediscounting for SMI loans;/1
(b) a DBP rediscount rate of 14% (compared to 16% for nonaccredited PDBs)
resulting in an end-user rate of 21% (compared to 23%);/2 (c) the authority
to approve automatically loans up to F 250,000; and (d) authorization for
a higher debt/equity ratio. The rediscount rate charged by DBP to PDBs will
be kept under review to ensure it reflects market conditions. However, as
agreed at negotiations, a 2% differential will be maintained between DBP's
rediscount rate to accredited and nonaccredited PDBs.
4.23      Organization and Staffing of DDRB.  DDRB operates as an apex for
PDBs by administering DBP's rediscount facilities and providing technical
assistance to the PDBs. DDRB's current organization is such that its staff's
major focus is project-specific and account-verification oriented. In order
that DDRB provide effective institutional support for the PDBs, it will have
to shift from its project-specific focus and adopt an institutional develop-
ment and evaluation role. Therefore, the following organizational changes are
being made within DDRB:  (a) organizing the Rediscounting and Investment Group
to review investment and rediscounting applications and undertake desk reviews
of SMI projects above P 250,000 from accredited PDBs; (b) merging the Bank
Supervision and Project Supervision Divisions into an Institution Evaluation
Group which will undertake institutional evaluations of PDBs; (c) restruc-
turing the Investment and Special Studies Division into a Management Services
Group in charge of monitoring the impact of DBP's assistance to the PDBs, and
providing PDBs with technical assistance in the form of institutional
development and staff training; and (d) merging the Accounting and Support
Services Divisions into the Financial Supervision and Administration Group.
Further details on DDRB's organization are given in Annex 3, Chart 1. In
addition to the reorganization of DDRB, a training coordinator has been
appointed who will liaise with DBP's Development Banking Institute (DBI) and
will develop/administer training programs for both PDB and DDRB staff (para.
4.30). To strengthen policy coordination, DDRB has organized two advisory
committees, one on policy and procedures and the other on training. Both
committees will be chaired by the Supervising Governor and will comprise
members of DDRB, PDBs and, in the case of training, members from DBI and
UPISSI. DBP Board appoval of DDRB's reorganization was obtained in March
1982.
/1 Currently, DBP provides 100% rediscounting for industrial loans up to
P 500,000 with maturities of over 6 years and 90% for loans with
maturities of 3-5 years. Loans above P 500,000 are provided 70-80%
rediscounting depending upon the maturity of the loan. Provision of 100%
rediscounting for all SMI loans by PDBs will be in line with IGLF
rediscounting policies.
/2 PDBs currently get a spread of 7% on their lending which is also in line
with the spread to be provided by IGLF to private financial institutions
on their cottage and small industry lending.



- 31 -
4.24      Operating Procedures.  In the past, DDRB's processing time for PDB
loans has ranged from 14-21 days for rediscounting based on desk reviews, and
30-50 days for loans approved on the basis of an end-use verification. Under
the project, the target processing time is 5 days for small loans which will
be rediscounted immediately if they conform to the prescribed guidelines and
10 days for larger loans which will be subject to a desk review by DDRB. This
reduction in processing time will be achieved by making procedural changes in
loan processing, simplifying documentation requirements, and the proposed
reorganization and training of DDRB staff. Major changes to be introduced in
the loan processing system are: (a) increasing the approval authority of both
the Manager of DDRB and the Supervising Governor;/1 (b) eliminating end-use
project verifications by DDRB; (c) changing the present system whereby DDRB
has both to obtain the authority to approve and disburse loans into a one
step process; and (d) disbursing funds to PDBs outside Metro Manila through
DBP's branch network instead of requiring them to come to Manila for every
loan signing.
4.25      Under the proposed accreditation scheme, PDBs will prepare
appraisal reports for each project financed which will be submitted to DDRB
for review. Loans up to P 250,000 will be immediately rediscounted if
conforming to predetermined guidelines, while those above P 250,000 and
below P 2.5 million will be subject to desk review (within 10 days) by DDRB
prior to approval. Even for these loans, DDRB will provide a 50% prereview
rediscount; if any prereview rediscounted loan is later rejected by DDRB, the
loan will be refunded by the PDB. Loans above P 2.5 million will be subject
to the Bank's prior review and approval and no prereview rediscounting will
be granted by DDRB in this case. Appraisal reports for all subloans of
P 500,000 and above or for the 10 largest loans approved during the
quarter, whichever is greater, will be submitted on a quarterly basis to Bank
for postapproval review.
4.26      At present, the operations of each PDB are reviewed by examiners
from DDRB to ascertain whether the PDB is complying with CB and DBP guide-
lines. As the PDBs are continually being monitored by the CB, DDRB has agreed
to liaise with the CB and PDB auditors to minimize duplication and enable DDRB
to concentrate on institutional evaluation. An Assistant Manager has been
appointed within DDRB to coordinate with CB and PDB auditors.
4.27      Under this project, only SMI loans made by PDBs will be eligible
for rediscounting from Bank funds. It is expected that the loans made by
/1 The approval/disbursement authority of the Manager and the Supervising
Governor has been increased. The Manager's loan approving authority
has been increased from P 150,000 to P 250,000 and that of the
Supervising Governor from P 600,000 to P 2.5 million. Loans above
P 2.5 million need DBP Board approval.



- 32 -
PDBs will be to cottage and small industries for the most part; the average
loan size is expected to be about E 200,000 (US$24,690).  In order to ensure
satisfactory regional distribution, it was agreed that at least 60% of the
loans (by value) rediscounted under the project by PDBs located outside
Metro Manila will be for projects outside Metro Manila. To formalize its
lending strategy, accreditation criteria and operating policies and
procedures with respect to the accredited PDBs, DDRB will prepare a Lending
Strategy Statement and Policy Manual, acceptable to the Bank, which will be
adopted by September 30, 1982.
3. Development Banking Institute (DBI)
4.28       During the appraisal of Loan 1572-PH to DBP, the potential of using
PDBs to channel funds to regionally dispersed cottage and small industry
borrowers was recognized. However, at that time it was felt that the PDBs
needed to be upgraded if they were to operate as effective financing channels.
Hence, under Loan 1572-PH, US$300,000 was allocated to establish a PDB
training institute within DBP. The Development Banking Institute (DBI) was
established in 1978, to provide training to PDB staff and management. Before
any significant progress could be made,/1 DBI was merged with the training
division in DBP's Personnel Department. In 1980, with the help of a Canadian
consulting firm, the training needs of DBP and PDB personnel were evaluated
and DBI became the official training institute for DBP staff.
4.29       DBI currently has a staff of 42, of whom 29 are support staff.
While DBI's nine member faculty appears adequate, the research staff of four
persons needs to be strengthened. There is considerable scope for further
research in the preparation of training material, particularly SMI-specific
case studies. DBP recognizes this need and will take the necessary actions to
deal with it. In the long run, DBI should become a major force in upgrading
the professional capabilities of the DBP and PDB staff. For 1982, a detailed
work program for DBI has been developed (Annex 4, Table 1).
4.30       Under this project, training courses will be provided for the staff
of SMILE, DDRB, PDBs and SMI staff in the branches. While almost all of the
staff in these departments/institutions will need training in SMI project
appraisal and supervision, priority will be given to the assistant manager
level staff at SMILE and DDRB, the staff of PDBs which are potential candi-
dates for accreditation and the SMI staff of the 15 most active branches.
Courses on SMI project appraisal and supervision will initially be conducted
by UPISSI and later by DBI. An outside training institute will also conduct
the first few courses on institutional evaluation for DDRB staff. In
addition to these courses, a few highly specialized courses on economic
analysis and corporate planning will be held for PPG and other DBP staff.
/1 Between 1978-81, only four seminars and six courses were conducted for
PDB staff focussing only on routine operations; under the project,
a much more active training program has been developed so as to meet
more adequately the training needs of the PDBs.



- 33 -
B. Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF)
4.31      Background.  IGLF was established in 1952 as a compensatory
financing and guarantee fund. It is owned by the National Economic
Development Authority (NEDA) but is administered by the Department of Loans
and Credit (DLC) of the Central Bank of the Philippines (CB). IGLF operates
as an apex unit with the basic objective of providing resources to financial
institutions for onlending to SMI. This rediscount mechanism enables the
IGLF program to have a wide geographical reach as many of the institutions
have an extensive regional network. In the past, IGLF has not financed
cottage industries with Bank resources, due to a P 50,000 loan floor for
Bank-funded projects; this requirement has been removed and Bank funds will
now be available to cottage industries through IGLF. Criteria governing
IGLF project eligibility conform with national development priorities such
as employment generation, export promotion and regional dispersion of
industry. Decisions on policy issues affecting IGLF's operations are made
by a highpowered (ministerial/deputy ministerial) interagency Review
Committee (RC),/l which is chaired by the Minister of the Budget. The RC
has proved very effective in providing IGLF with the needed policy guidance.
4.32      The Accreditation Scheme.  Under the accreditation scheme, IGLF
delegates all appraisal and supervision responsibilities to the accredited
financial Institution while IGLF itself provides institutional guidance and
monitors the overall performance of the program. Before granting accredita-
tion status, IGLF undertakes a thorough review of the institution to determine
its overall financial viability and the adequacy of its staff to implement an
SMI program. Only accredited institutions are eligible for Bank funding. The
performance of each accredited institution is reviewed annually by IGLF and
the Bank is informed of the findings of these reviews.
4.33      As of December 31, 1981, 32 financial institutions were accredited
under IGLF of which 14 were commercial banks, 12 were nonbank financial inter-
mediaries (NBFI), 2 were savings/mortgage banks and 4 were PDBs (Annex 5,
Table 1)./2 Of the 32 accredited institutions, 11 were particularly active
and accounted for 94% (by amount) of IGLF loans outstanding as of December
31, 1981. IGLF-s experience with PDBs has not been satisfactory as the
accredited PDBs have either been inactive or have developed large arrears on
their IGLF portfolio. After a review of the PDBs, it was felt that, at
present, PDBs were not financially mature institutions and needed much more
focussed technical assistance than IGLF was currently able to provide. It
was therefore decided that no further PDBs would be accredited by IGLF and
/1 The Government agencies represented on the RC are NEDA, CB, MTI,
Ministry of Finance and UPISSI.
/2 At the time of the last Bank appraisal of IGLF (1978), there were 20
accredited institutions of which 10 were commercial banks, 9 were nonbank
finanical intermediaries and 1 was a savings/mortgage bank.



- 34 -
that already accredited PDBs would have their status rescinded. The
resource and technical assistance needs of the PDBs will now be met by DBP.
4.34      Scope and Conditions of Lending.  IGLF's assistance to accredited
institutions is in the form of a 100% rediscount on their SMI loans and the
provision of guarantees. IGLF provides two types of loan guarantees: the
collateral short guarantee, which is available for cottage and small industry
loans and covers the actual collateral deficiency up to 25% of the loan
amount; and the credit risk guarantee, which is available for cottage, small
and medium industry loans and covers a fixed percentage of the loan amount
outstanding but cannot exceed 60% for cottage and small industry loans or
40% for medium industry loans. A 2% p.a. guarantee fee is charged to the
end-user in the case of the collateral guarantee and to the financial
institution in the case of the credit risk guarantee. While the credit risk
guarantee has proven popular with the financial institutions, with nearly all
approvals under Loan 1727-PH using this facility, a small but growing number
of approvals has carried the collateral guarantee, illustrating the extreme
reluctance of private institutions to lend to under-collateralized clients.
4.35      Operating Policies and Procedures.  IGLF's broad policies concerning
its operations and relationship with accredited institutions are spelled out
in its draft Lending Strategy (Annex 5, Attachment 1), while administrative
details on its lending policies are incorporated in its Policy Manual. In
view of its recent experience, IGLF has decided to modify its policy
regarding the provision for losses. In the past, provision for losses on
IGLF guarantees were made annually and amounted to P 3.8 million as of
December 30, 1980.  In 1981, IGLF's share in the net losses covered by its
guarantees amounted to P 4.0 million thus wiping out its entire provisions
and requiring ad hoc provisions to be established.  IGLF has therefore
decided to set aside as annual provisions an amount equivalent to the
guarantee fees collected during the year and projected losses for the coming
year based on an account-by-account analysis of IGLF's portfolio in arrears.
IGLF has also decided to modify some of its operating procedures in order to
encourage the financing of the entire size spectrum of manufacturing and
manufacturing-related service industries and meet the financing needs of
undercollateralized clients. The major policy changes to be introduced are:
(a) modification of the asset-based definition of SMI (para. 1.02);
(b) allowing manufacturing-related service industries to be eligible for
IGLF financing; (c) removal of the minimum loan size on Bank funded loans
and introduction of a maximum loan size of P 5 million; (d) removal of the
restriction that only established medium industries are eligible for IGLF
financing; and (e) provision of accreditation status to eligible leasing
companies. These changes will be incorporated, in a form acceptable to the
Bank, in IGLF's revised Lending Strategy Statement and Policy Manual, both
of which will be adopted by IGLF by September 30, 1982.



- 35 -
4.36      Orgalization and Staff.  During negotiations for Loan 1727-PH, it
was agreed that IGLF would be reorganized and strengthened so as to be more
responsive to the operating needs of the program.  Unfortunately, the orga-
nizational changes and staffing increases recommended were not immediately
implemented and IGLF was unable to monitor adequately the operations of accre-
dited institutions. In November 1981, the Monetary Board approved 18 new
positions for IGLF so that its staff strength increased from 48 to 66. As a
result, IGLF has received approval from the RC to reorganize from its two
existing divisions into four divisions. The major responsibilities of these
divisions will be: (a) institutional appraisal of accredited institutions;
(b) desk processing of loan applications and the servicing of guarantees;
(c) servicing of all loan acounts; and (d) undertaking studies related to the
IGLF program. The new organization structure showing staff allocation is
given in Annex 5 Chart 1.
4.37      Staff Training.  To upgrade the quality of IGLF's operations, it
is necessary that, at a minimum, all IGLF staff be fully trained in project
evaluation and follow-up. In addition, staff responsible for monitoring the
institutional capabilities of the participating institutions will need
training in development banking. IGLF's management, in conjunction with the
CB's training institute and other outside training agencies will develop
suitable courses. In addition to the training needs of IGLF's own staff, the
training requirements of the accredited institutions' staff have also been
taken into account. IGLF sponsored a UPISSI course on SMI lending for the
staff of participating institutions in June 1981 and will be sponsoring
further courses this year.
4.38      Appraisal and Disbursement Procedures.  Under the accreditation
system, project appraisal is the responsibility of the accredited institution.
Some accredited institutions, such as commercial banks with no history of
term lending, tend to rely more on collateral than on project analysis.
IGLF's Lending Strategy requires, however, that the subprojects it finances
be both economically and financially viable. IGLF will be in a position to
remedy this deficiency through its close monitoring of the performance of
the participating institutions and the training programs being held for the
staff of accredited institutions.
4.39      Supervision.  While the accredited institutions are primarily
responsible for project supervision, IGLF staff have routinely conducted end-
use project verifications to guard against diversion of funds. However, as
the number of IGLF-financed projects grow, an increasingly large proportion of
IGLF staff time is being taken up in this routine activity. In addition, when
IGLF conducts its annual review of accredited institutions, it has followed
a policy of visiting all the subprojects financed to ensure that funds have
been properly utilized. As a result, in 1980 it was only possible for IGLF
to carry out a review of 4 of the 32 accredited institutions. In the future,
in order to leave IGLF staff more time to review and appraise institutions,
a random sample of IGLF-financed projects would be visited during the



- 36 -
annual review of accredited institutions.  In addition, IGLF will require
that all accredited institutions have independent auditors review annually
their IGLF portfolio and report their findings to IGLF. As a result of the
annual audit of the IGLF portfolio of the accredited institutions and the
decision to visit a representative sample of projects financed, the time
spent by IGLF staff on supervising specific projects will decrease thereby
enabling IGLF to undertake an annual evaluation of all accredited
institutions.
4.40      Operations.  IGLF loan approvals increased steadily from
P 29.2 million in 1976 to P 59.9 million in 1979 for an annual average
growth of 27% over the period. In February 1980, when Loan 1727-PH became
effective, medium industry loans became eligible for IGLF financing and the
spreads to accredited institutions were increased to 8% for small industry
loans and 6% for medium industry loans. As a result, loan approvals sharply
increased to P 147.2 million in 1980 and P 234.4 million for 1981 (Annex
5, Table 2). In terms of institutional participation, for 1981, nonbank
financial intermediaries accounted for 75% of loan approvals and commercial
banks for 17%, while "other" financial institutions, such as savings and
mortgage banks, accounted for 8% of approvals (Annex 5, Table 3).
4.41      Characteristics of Operations.  In general, IGLF tends to finance
labor-intensive manufacturing industries, although some construction, tourism
and service industries have also been financed. During 1976-81, the
manufacturing sector accounted for 94-99% of approvals, the more important
subsectors being apparel/footwear/garments, food and food products and metal
products (Annex 5, Table 4). In terms of regional distribution, IGLF's
lending has been skewed in favor of Metro Manila and adjoining provinces
(Annex 5, Table 4). In order to bring about better regional distribution of
investment, IGLF now requires accredited institutions to finance: (a) 60% (by
number) of their loans in a 6-month period outside Metro Manila; and (b) no
new projects in Metro Manila unless they are export oriented. Over the period
January-December 1981, 25% of IGLF resources have gone to cottage and small
industry and 75% to medium industry. Financing of medium industries has,
however, been encouraged both because the medium-scale enterprise tier is
not particularly well-developed in the Philippines and because they form a
vital link in fostering subcontracting relationships (paras. 1.05 and 1.06).
IGLF has therefore decided not to impose any limits on the allocation of its
resources between cottage, small and medium industries. The number of loans
carrying maturities of less than 5 years has been decreasing steadily from
nearly 80% in 1976 to 22% in 1981, indicating a growing sense of realism in
the project evaluations done by the accredited financial institutions.
4.42      Financial Position and Performance.  IGLF's total assets have
increased at an average of 34% per year since 1974. This asset growth has
been almost entirely financed by drawdowns on the two previous Bank loans
(Loans 1120-PH and 1727-PH) and Government counterpart funds (Annex 5,
Table 5). IGLF's financial position has been very strong with a current
ratio consistently over 4:1 and total debt/equity ratio of below 2:1 for the
period 1976-80. In 1981, however, IGLF's current ratio dropped to 1.2:1 as
temporary assets were liquidated to provide resources for further term-
lending. IGLF's total operating income has been increasing at an average of



- 37 -
47% p.a. over the past three years and stood at P 32 million in 1981
(Annex 5, Table 6). Its sources of income are interest income on loans,
interest income on temporary investments and guarantee fees. Historically,
the largest contribution to gross income was from short-term investments.
However, this element has now declined as surplus funds have been used for
term financing. As a result, interest income from term loans as a proportion
of total income increased from an average of 53% for 1974-79 to 81% in 1980
and 82% for 1981. The profitability of IGLF's operations steadily increased
between 1976-80 with net profit in 1980 more than double that of 1979. How-
ever IGLF's net profit declined from P 8.5 million in 1980 to P 5.3
million in 1981 due to a decline in interest income on temporary investments
and rising interest expenses.
4.43      Quality of Portfolio.  Over the last few years, arrears, both in
terms of absolute amount and as a percentage of loans outstanding, have
steadily declined. The improvement can be explained partly by the signifi-
cant increase in the outstanding portfolio between 1978-81 and by the CB's
newly adopted (early 1980) automatic debiting policy whereby the accounts
of participating institutions in arrears are automatically debited by CB
after a grace period of 45 days if no remedial plan has been suggested. As
of December 31, 1981, total arrears of financial institutions to IGLF were
1.6% of the outstanding portfolio; loans affected by arrears were 25% by
number and 14% by amount (Annex 5, Table 7). Based on a sample representing
66% of the number and 74% of the amount of loans outstanding, total arrears
of end-users to participating financial institutions amounted to 6% of the
outstanding loan portfolio, while loans affected by arrears amounted to 35%
by number and 19% by amount. The arrears ratio varies significantly by type
of institutions with rural banks having the highest ratio of 74%,/1 private
development banks 36%,/2 commercial banks 13%, and NBFI 2% (Annex 5, Tables 8
and 9).
C. Technical Assistance Component
4.44      Organization and Structure of BSMI.  Following the merger of the
Ministries of Trade and of Industry in July 1981, there are now six bureaus
and 17 affiliated agencies (many of which are technical institutes) within
MTI.  The BSM[, one of the above mentioned six bureaus, is headed by a
Director who reports to the Deputy Minister, MTI in charge of SMI. The BSMI
has four divisions with 53 professional staff at Head Office and a regional
extension organization, SBAC/MASICAP, with 277 professional staff as of
year-end 1981./3 The SBAC/MASICAP field organization reports directly to the
/1 Rural banks have not been accredited and are therefore not eligible for
Bank funding.
/2 PDBs will no longer be accredited under IGLF (para. 4.33).
/3 The SBAC/MASICAP staff are projected to increase from 330 at year-end 1981
to 600-650 by year end 1985.



- 38 -
Director, BSMI and is grouped under two program coordinators, one for Luzon
and the other for Visayas and Mindanao. BSMI's total budget allocation is
P 23.1 million (US$2.9 million) for 1982. The organizational structure,
staffing and procedures within BSMI are satisfactory.
1. SBAC/MASICAP Subcomponent
4.45      Strengths/Weaknesses of SBAC/MASICAP Program.  The history and
current operations of the SBAC/MASICAP program are discussed in paras. 1.15-
1.18. The major strengths of the SBAC/MASICAP program are: (a) an extensive
regional presence (12 centers and 35 subcenters); (b) provision of good
quality advice to SMI entrepreneurs; and (c) its referral service operations
which links clients in the regions to essentially Metro Manila-based technical
expertise. The major weaknesses of the program are: (a) inadequate physical
facilities to support an effective and efficient increase in the level of
operations; (b) the absence of an operating strategy and guidelines for
SBAC/MASICAP operations; (c) relatively little industry level activity; and
(d) inadequate training on industry-level issues and technology.
4.46      The proposed SBAC/MASICAP subcomponent aims to build on the experi-
ences under the previous two Bank loans and address the weaknesses mentioned
above. First, service to rural areas has been limited in the past due to a
lack of sUbcenters from which to operate and transportation vehicles and
infrastructure necessary to reach outlying entrepreneurs. Under the project,
financing will be provided for equipment, vehicles and establishment of
reference libraries in the regional SBAC/MASICAP offices and the subregional
offices currently being established. Second, an Operating Strategy, and
Guidelines for SBAC/MASICAP Operations, focusing on the importance of
industry-level counselling were agreed upon at negotiations. Third,
SBAC/MASICAP staff have started developing industry studies; a list of
industry studies that have been prepared is provided in Annex 6, Table 1.
In addition, SBAC/MASICAP centers are in the process of establishing
industry associations and are arranging industrial group counselling./1 To
do this effectively, it is necessary for SBAC/MASICAP staff and the BSMI
staff supervising SBAC/MASICAP to have not only broad managerial training
but in-depth training on the technical, marketing and financial problems
facing priority industries in their regions. In addition, SBAC/MASICAP
staff will, from time to time, need technical consultancy assistance. This
training/technical consultancy assistance will be particularly important for
SBAC/MASICAP staff in developing solutions to industry-specific problems via
the pilot project mechanism (para. 4.47). In addition to SBAC/MASICAP and
Head Office (BSMI) staff training, it will be necessary for SBAC/MASICAP to
organize client training for priority SMI industry groups which will be
/1 A study of SBAC/MASICAP clients and their requirements indicates that
technical training will be particularly needed with respect to food
processing, furniture manufacture and production technology for metal
working industry.



- 39 -
carried out by specialized institutions/consultants. It is estimated that
over a 4-year period, approximately 1,820 BSMI and SBAC/MASICAP staff will
attend courses., The actual number of staff trained will clearly be less
than this as many of the staff will attend more than one course. Courses
for 5,100 SBAC,MASICAP clients will also be arranged. SBAC/MASICAP clients
contribute both monetary and nonmonetary payment for the technical training
received. A summary of the proposed training program is given in Annex 6,
Table 2. BSMI will be responsible for identifying the specific training
needs of Head Office and SBAC/MASICAP staff and for organizing the necessary
courses. Regional SBAC/MASICAP Training Coordinators will be responsible
for proposing client training which will be reviewed and centralized into an
annual work program by BSMI.
2. Pilot Project Subcomponent
4.47      On the basis of regional industry studies, SBAC/MASICAP staff are
engaged in identifying for each region existing priority industries and
those with growth potential, the latter being identified on the basis of
natural resources of the region and the skill mix of the local population.
The industry studies thus far prepared have shown that many problems faced
by individual entrepreneurs are industry-wide, rather than firm-specific
problems. To deal with this type of problem, SBAC/MASICAP has organized
individual entrepreneurs into industry associations and worked closely with
them to develop solutions. When the solution indicates the need for the
development of a common facility or new/improved technologies, pilot projects
may be developed. A project feasibility study (PFS) would be prepared by the
regional SBAC/MASICAP staff in conjunction with the industry association,
using private sector technical expertise when necessary and would be forward-
ed to BSMI for review. The choice regarding which pilot projects to finance
would rest with BSMI, subject to Bank approval, while pilot project identifi-
cation and supervision would rest with the local SBAC/MASICAP center. An
approved project would be implemented by a full-time professional manager
under the guidance of SBAC/MASICAP and the industry association concerned.
4.48       Several pilot projects have been identified and, in principle, are
ready for financing. The pilot projects so far identified are typically
common facilities (e.g., kiln drying, metal testing, food processing and
handicraft marketing) and reconditioning and service centers. A few pilot
projects concentrate on developing new technologies (e.g., bio-gas). Details
of the already identified pilot projects are given in Annex 6, Table 3. In
addition, a pipeline of interesting suggestions has also been established and
is given in Annex 6, Table 4.  Certain pilot projects have been specifically
developed to address the problems of the four key SMI subsectors namely, food,
garments, wood and furniture, and metal working. Details regarding the
problems of these subsectors and the manner in which the project addresses
them are provided in Annex 6, Attachment 1.



- 40 -
4.49      Under this project, the maximum subloan to a pilot project will be
limited to P 5 million (US$617,280). With respect to project financing,
the Bank will finance a maximum of 70% of the total project cost leaving the
project sponsor responsible for the remaining amount. A minimum of 20% of
project cost would be required as an equity contribution from either the
sponsor (industry association) or a VCC./l The remaining 10% may come from
the sponsor-s own resources, other financial institutions such as VCCs, or
from counterpart pilot project funds. In those instances when pilot projects
are developing new technologies for which there is no private sector sponsor,
the Bank would finance 70% of the project cost while the balance would
comprise MTI funds. As MTI is not legally capable of lending to private
enterprises, Bank and MTI funds to, and repayments from pilot projects will,
for administrative convenience, be channelled through DBP. While DBP would
operate as the banking agent for MTI, pilot project appraisal, approval and
supervision will be done by MTI and the credit risk would be borne by MTI.
After allowing an appropriate grace period for both capital and interest, a
maximum interest rate of 18% will be charged on Bank financing./2
4.50      Cost Sharing.  In the past, BSMI-s assistance services were provided
free of charge. With the expansion of BSMI's activities, it is desirable to
introduce cost sharing to generate operating revenue and information on the
value of services to clients. MTI, in its Operating Strategy and Guidelines,
is committed to the principle of cost sharing for technical services
rendered to SMI and has developed specific cost sharing targets for
entrepreneur training, industry studies and project feasibility studies.
The target is to increase the SBAC/MASICAP-to-client contribution ratio from
55:45 in 1981 to 40:60 in 1985./3
3. Studies Subcomponent
4.51      Studies will be financed under the proposed technical assistance
component to review issues affecting the operations of the SMI sector. The
/1  The MTI has a shareholding in all the VCCs.  In addition, VCCs currently
face a shortage of projects (para. 1.23). It is envisaged that most
VCC-financed enterprises will be ultimately sold to the industry
associations.
/2 Analogous to the interest rate charged by DBP and IGLF on small industry
loans.
/3 Should SBAC advisory services become subject to a direct monetary
fee, then the legal status of SBAC/MASICAP would have to be reviewed.
It would probably need to be transformed to an MTI affiliated agency
with (semi) commercial operations.



- 41 -
three studies which have already been identified are subcontracting
(para. 1.06), NACIDA (para. 1.19), and the provision/coordination of services
to the SMI sector (para. 1.26). In addition, MTI has requested Bank financing
for a set of national SMI subsector studies. These studies will mirror the
research currently being done under SAL for large industry and will complement
the detailed and purely regional work done by SBAC/MASICAP as well as provide
a valuable data base on the structure of SMI. The proposed SMI subsector/
industry studies will consider issues such as productivity, economies of
scale, and product supply capabilities of specific industries in which SMI
predominate. With respect to cost, it is estimated that the NACIDA study will
take approximately 1-1.5 man-years, the subcontracting study from 1.5-2 man-
years and the study on the services to the SMI sector about 2 man-years, for a
combined estimated cost of about US$0.4 million./1 The balance of about
US$0.6 million will be kept for financing the industry level studies. The
terms of reference of all studies financed under this subcomponent will be
approved by the Bank prior to fund release; any consultants financed under the
project will be employed according to Bank Guidelines.
V. THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
Benefits and Risks
5.01      Benefits.  The proposed SMI project will address the major financial
and technical constraints hindering the development of SMI. In addition to
providing needed financial assistance, the technical assistance provided under
the project will foster the structural changes necessary to upgrade the
quality of SMI output in industries where SMI currently predominate while
simultaneously fostering the development of SMI in subsectors with growth
potential.
5.02      The Bank loan would increase the resources available for SMI lend-
ing. It is expected that about 2,100 subprojects will be financed, with
subproject costs, including sponsors' equity of about P 2,211 million
(US$273 million) and an average subloan size of about P 794,600 (US$98,100).
These subloans are expected to generate incremental direct employment of about
32,900, with an incremental cost-per-job of about US$8,300. For the
individual subcomponents, the cost-per-job values are likely to be in the
/1 Consultant costs (including salary, travel, subsistence, etc.) are
estimated at US$60,000 per man-year for local consultants and US$100,000
for foreign consultants.



- 42 -
range of US$10,000 for IGLF, US$8,000 for DBP and US$4,500 for the PDBs./J
The breakdown of expected costs and benefits is as follows:
Expected no.  Total subpro-   Total sub-   Average sub-
of subprojects    ject cost        loan amt.    loan amt.
US$ million      US$ million   US$'000
IGLF           300             155            117          390,000
DBP/SMI        300              67             50          166,700
DBP/PDBs     1,500              51             39           26,000
Total     2,100              273            206           98,100
Since individual subprojects to be financed under the loan are not yet inden-
tified, an ex ante quantification of their economic impact is not possible.
However, under the Bank's past SMI financing the weighted average ex ante
financial rate of return was 26% and the economic rate of return was 42%.
5.03      In addition to providing finance to SMI, the project will play an
important role in upgrading the capabilities of the financing institutions.
While the Bank has had a long-standing and satisfactory relationship with
IGLF, organizational and procedural changes are being introduced under the
,roject to enable IGLF to monitor a.d upgrade more effectively the operations
of ics accredited financial institutions. Although the Bank has had a long
relationship with DBP/SMI, its institution-building impact has been limited.
A detailed Action Program has been developed with DBP which, if implemented,
would significantly improve DBP's SMI operations both at the Head Office and
in the branches. Under this project, PDBs would, for the first time, receive
Bank resources through DBP's DDRB for onlending to SMI. Organizational and
procedural changes have been recommended for DDRB to enable it to shift its
focus from project evaluation to institutional upgrading. For the PDBs, an
accreditation system has been devised which offers incentives to PDBs to
improve their operations. In addition, a series of training courses has
been developed for the staff of IGLF, DBP/SMILE, DPB/DDRB, DBP branches,
/1  The increase in the cost-per-job as compared to previous loans is princi-
pally because of inflation and the increase in the subloan ceiling.
In addition, the increased financing of medium industries, which tend
to be more capital intensive than small industries, is likely to raise
the cost-per-job; however, financing of medium industries is justified
since this industry size group is underdeveloped and is vital in
promoting subcontracting (para. 1.05).



- 43 -
PDBs and IGLF accredited financial institutions. While some highly special-
ized courses will be offered, the major thrust of the training program is to
induce financial intermediaries to shift their focus from collateral- to
project-based lending and, for the apex institutions (IGLF, DDRB), to shift
from a project-specific review role to an institutional development role.
5.04      Although difficult to quantify, the technical assistance service
provided by SBAC/MASICAP and the alleviation of key production, technical
and marketing constraints facing priority SMI subsectors through the pilot
project mechanism are expected to have a significant impact on the growth
prospects and productivity of SMI. Under the project, SBAC/MASICAP staff
will increase the scope of their activities to deal with industry problems
as well as individual business problems of SMI entrepreneurs. In addition
to services directly provided, SBAC/MASICAP will play an important referral
role by linking SMI clients on a one-to-one basis with Manila-based technical
institutes and will arrange for the staff of technical institutes to come to
the regions and demonstrate ways in which SMI technologies can be upgraded.
It is estimated that approximately 5,000 SMI entrepreneurs will attend such
technical courses and will bear a significant proportion of the costs
incurred.
5.05      The pilot project mechanism will provide a novel way of testing
potential solutions to constraints faced by specific industrial subsectors
and is capable of being replicated nationwide if proven successful. Colla-
boration with the private sector in the design and implementation of pilot
projects and in project-funded studies to be undertaken on SMI-related
issues will provide a useful mechanism to get the private sector more
actively involved in the development of SMI.
5.06      Risks.  With respect to the credit component, the financial
requirements of SMI estimated under the project assume a favorable invest-
ment climate and that other funds are not provided to the same sector on
more favorable terms. The only program which is likely to compete with
DBP/PDB/ICLF financing due to provision of funds below market interest rates
is the KKK. However, the project characteristics inherent in KKK-funded
projects are likely to differ significantly from those financed under programs
using Bank funds (para. 1.22) and the present expectation is that this program
will not have a major effect on the demand for loans under this project. As
PDBs and DDRB are new clients, there is a risk that the PDB accreditation
program will face teething problems and that progress under the scheme will be
slower or less effective than anticipated. To reduce the likelihood of this
occurrence, DBP has already started reviewing PDBs for accreditation and it is
expected that some PDBs will be accredited prior to loan effectiveness.  In
the case of DBP's direct SMI lending, there has been a long history of
institutional problems. A detailed Action Program has been developed for
DBP's SMI operations which DBP's senior management has agreed to support. To
help ensure against the risk of noncompliance with the Action Program, a
tranching mechanism has been introduced (para. 4.16).



- 44 -
With respect to IGLF, it is possible that if the higher end-user interest
rates discourage accredited institutions from participating in the program,
the growth rate of IGLF operations will be lower than anticipated. The
appropriateness of the interest rates charged will be continually monitored
and revised if necessary (para. 5.10).
5.07      With respect to the SBAC/MASICAP program, the move from individual
client counselling is a recent one and the transition to an industry-wide
focus might prove more difficult and time consuming than presently antici-
pated. Second, the integration of the Ministries of Trade and Industry has
resulted in the new MTI having a number of extension services. While MTI has
repeatedly given assurances that it will differentiate its extension services
on the basis of developmental and regulatory operations, it is conceivable
that, over time, SBAC/MASICAP could be functionally integrated with NACIDA or
other similar agencies. If this were to happen, it might interrupt the
SBAC/MASICAP work program and the time frame for its implementation. The
Government agreed at negotiations, however, that the Bank will be consulted
prior to any such proposed functional integration. Third, as SBAC/MASICAP
is generally regarded as the premier SMI extension service agency, demands
are placed on it to help develop/administer other Government SMI programs.
These demands could result in SBAC/MASICAP neglecting its own operations.
Agreements were reached at negotiations with the Government that BSMI and
SBAC/MASICAP will have the staff and budgetary resources necessary to carry
out their responsibilities under the project. Finally, the pilot project
mechanism is innovative by design and there is a significant risk that these
projects will not achieve their desired objective.  Project approval by the
Bank prior to disbursement from the pilot project fund should provide some
safeguard.
Features of the Loan
5.08      Lending Arrangements.  The proposed loan of US$130 million /1
would be made to the Government on standard country terms and conditions.
About US$123.0 million of the Bank loan would be for the credit component of
which the equivalent in pesos of US$48.0 million would be onlent by the
Government to DBP under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the
Bank, on terms and conditions similar to the Bank loan. Signing of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan.  Of this amount, US$27.0 million would be for DBP's direct
SMI lending and US$21.0 million for relending to PDBs./2 Loan proceeds in
the amount equivalent to US$63.0 million would be made available to IGLF
under terms and conditions similar to the Bank loan. An amount of US$12.0
million would initially be unallocated among the financing institutions
(para. 3.05). DBP and IGLF would bear the 0.75% commitment fee on the
undisbursed balance of their portion of the loan and the 1.5% front-end
/1 This excludes the US$2.0 million front-end fee.
/2 DBP's direct SMI lending would not include cottage industries.



- 45 -
fee. The balance of US$7.0 million would be passed on to MTI for the
technical assistance component./I The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk for both components financed under the loan.
5.09      Loan Amortization.  Since the number of subloans expected to be
financed under the credit component is quite large (para. 5.02), as in the
case of previous loans, for the sake of administrative convenience, a fixed
amortization schedule that would have the same repayment schedule as the
Bank loan is recommended for repayment to the Government by DBP and IGLF. As
the maturities of subloans to be financed will be considerably less than the
20 years allowed for repayment to the Government, IGLF, DBP/SMI and the
DBP/PDBs will receive an excess of repayments from borrowers over repayments
to the Government. As agreed at negotiations, these surplus funds are to
remain with the financing institutions to be utilized for further lending to
subprojects eligible to receive Bank financing according to the criteria
established for the proposed project.
5.10      Onlending Terms.  Subloans made with IGLF or DBP/SMI resources
would be onlent to the end-users at 18% p.a. and 21% p.a. for small- and
medium-scale borrowers, respectively. For cottage industry borrowers, IGLF's
end-user rate will be 18% p.a./2 The PDBs, which will essentially be making
loans to cottage and small industry borrowers, will charge 21% for loans made
with Bank resources. The rates charged by the financing institutions will be
more market-oriented than they were under previous Bank loans, and given
projected rates of inflation of 10% and under, onlending rates are estimated
to be significantly positive in real terms during the life of the project.
The framework of rates and spreads proposed is shown in the table below. The
continued appropriateness of these rates and spreads will be reviewed by
by Government throughout the commitment period to ensure that they continue
to reflect market conditions. In light of operating experience and/or major
changes in market rates, the interest rates and spreads would be revised
with agreement of the Government and the Bank.
/1 From the technical assistance component, US$2.5 million for pilot projects
would be administered by DBP as MTI's agent bank (para. 4.49).
/2 In the case of IGLF, its end-user interest will increase from 14.7% to
18% for cottage and small industry loans and from 15% to 21% for its
loans to medium industry. In the case of DBP, its end-user rate will
increase from 14% to 18% for its small industry loans and from 16% to
21% for its medium industry loans.



- 46 -
PROPOSED LENDING RATES AND SPREADS /a
Industrial category of borrower
Cottage         Small         Medium
IGLF
Final end-user rate                        18              18            21
Spread to financial institution             7               7              5
Interest charged by IGLF to
financial institution                    11              11            16
Cost of IGLF funds /b                       7.2             7.2           7.2
IGLF spread                                 3.8             3.8           8.8
DBP/PDBs
Final end-user rate                        21              21            21
Spread to PDBs                              7               7             7
DBP's rediscount rate                      14              14            14
Cost of DBP's funds /c                     12.4            12.4           12.4
DBP PDB spread                              1.6              1.6           1.6
DBP/Direct SMI Lending
Final end-user rate                         /c             18            21
Cost of DBP's funds /d                      /c             12.4          12.4
DBP direct lending spread                                   5.6            8.6
Ia All rates in percent per annum.
/b Computation: 60% of resources at 12% (assuming IBRD rate of 11.8% +
capitalization of front-end fee = 12%) + 40% with no interest (Govern-
ment counterpart) = 7.2%.
/c Bank funds will not be financing DBP's direct cottage industry lending
operations.
/d Computation: 60% of resources at 12% (assuming IBRD rate of 11.8% +
capitalization of front-end fee = 12%) + 40% at 13% = 12.4%.
5.11      Loan Purposes.  The credit component of the loan will be used to
finance fixed assets and permanent working capital of SMI subprojects. The
technical assistance component of the loan will be used to finance equipment/
transportation vehicles and reference books for SBAC/MASICAP, consultancy
services, training of SBAC/MASICAP and BSMI staff as well as SMI entrepren-
eurs, and fixed asset and permanent working capital costs for pilot project.
5.12      Subloan Size, Equity Contributions and Maturity.  To ensure a wide
distribution of the project's funds, under the credit component, the maximum
subloan size will be P 5 million (US$617,280). For all subloans made using
Bank funds, a minimum equity contribution of 20% of total project cost
will be required. For working capital loans, the maximum maturity allowed



- 47 -
will be seven years, including a two-year grace period. For fixed asset
subloans, the maximum maturity allowed will be 12 years, including a
three-year grace period.
5.13      Procurement.  DBP and IGLF would be responsible for ensuring that
the procuremernt procedures utilized to select items to be financed entail a
satisfactory degree of competition. As items procured by SMI borrowers do not
justify international competitive bidding, most financing institutions require
the borrower to submit at least 3 quotations from reliable suppliers. A
supplier is chosen based on the suitability of equipment, local availability
of spare parts/service efficiency, reliability of supplies, compatibility with
present equipment and price. DBP and IGLF will be required to maintain
records of the method of procurement and to monitor the utilization of subloan
funds during their regular project supervision. These procurement methods,
which are satisfactory, will be reviewed by the Bank during project
supervision. Under the technical assistance component, goods would be
procured through a series of relatively small contracts which would be awarded
during project implementation as SBAC/MASICAP regional subcenters were
established. International competitive bidding procedures would therefore
not be appropriate; however, procurement of goods under this component would
require at least three quotations. This procedure should prove satisfactory
as there is adequate representation of equipment suppliers and acceptable
after-sales service in the Philippines. MTI has agreed to provide the Bank
with details on the quotations obtained and the reasons for the choice of
supplier. Under the proposed loan, procurement of consultants would be in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants" (August
1981).
5.14      Disbursement.  For the portion of the Bank loan channelled through
the credit component, the Bank will finance 60% of the total subloan amount
which would approximate 45% of total project cost assuming an equity
contribution of 25% of total project cost (minimum sponsor contribution would
be 20%). As in the case of previous SMI loans, applications for disbursement
from DBP and IGLF will be supported by a statement of expenditure. In
addition under this loan, the statement of expenditure will need to be
accompanied by the standard quarterly reports agreed upon with the Bank. In
the case of the technical assistance component, Bank disbursements will be
made for: 1()0% of the direct foreign exchange cost of imported, or 60% of the
cost of locally procured, equipment/transportation vehicles and books for the
SBAC/MASICAP subcomponent; 100% of training under the SBAC/MASICAP sub-
component; 70% of the total cost for pilot projects; and 100% of the studies
subcomponent. With respect to the technical assistance component, disburse-
ments will be made against some local currency costs. Disbursements for
equipment, training and consultants fees would be made against contracts; for
the pilot projects, disbursement would be made against a statement of
expenditure.  For all components or subcomponents using a statement of
expenditure, adequate records of documentation will be maintained and will be
available to the Bank upon request. The loan is expected to be committed in
about three years and disbursed in about four years. Annex 7, shows the
estimated schedule of disbursements. As the standard Industrial Development
Finance (IDF) profile is not relevant in the case of a SMI project, the



- 48 -
disbursement profile under this loan is based on the disbursement experience
of SMI I (Loan 1120-PH) and SMI II (Loan 1727-PH) and projections.
5.15      Free Limit.  Given the increase in the maximum subloan amount,/l
free limits have been established for each of the financing channels;
disbursements for subloans in excess of the free limits will need prior
approval by the Bank./2 The free limits for DBP/PDBs, DBP/SMI and IGLF are
P 2.5 million, P 3.0 million and P 4.0 million, respectively.  The
differences in the free limits reflect the differences in expected average
loan sizes (para. 5.02) and the degree to which the Bank desires close
supervision of subproject appraisals. In addition, for DBP/PDBs and DBP/
SMI, all appraisal reports for subloans from P 500,000 to the respective
free limit, or the 10 largest subloans approved during the quarter below the
free limit, whichever results in the greater number of projects, will be
sent to the Bank for postapproval review. For IGLF, appraisal reports for
subloans from P 2.0 million to P 4.0 million will be sent to the Bank
for postapproval review. The free limits and postapproval review limits
should result in the Bank reviewing about 75 of IGLF's subprojects (30% of
projected approvals), 75 of DBP/SMI subprojects (20% of projected
approvals), and 130 PDB subprojects (9% of projected approvals).
5.16      Financial Rate of Return (FRR) and Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
Calculations. FRR calculations are to be made for all subloans of
P 500,000 (US$61,730) or more. ERR calculations will be required for all
subloans of P 3.5 million (US$432,100) or more.
5.17      Reporting and Audit Requirements.  IGLF, DBP/SMI, DDB/DDRB and MTI
will submit quarterlv reports on their operations/activities to the Bank on
the basis of agre-d formats. The pilot project fund of MTI is to be
annually audited with the findings of the auditor provided to the Bank. IGLF
will continue to be audited yearly by the Commission on Audit (COA),
according to the Bank's long-form audit procedures and the Bank will be
provided with a copy of the audit and any comments/findings of the auditor.
IGLF will also require that its accredited institutions have their IGLF
portfolios audited on an annual basis by auditors acceptable to IGLF and the
findings of the audit will be conveyed to IGLF. For DBP/SMI and DBP/DDRB,
each department will have the COA certify that year-end data relating to its
level of operations and quality of portfolio (arrears and collection rates)
are accurate and the Bank will be provided with a copy of the auditor's
opinion. In addition, DBP will require that all accredited PDBs have their
accounts audited annually by auditors acceptable to DBP. In those instances
when disbursements are made against a statement of expenditure, an annual
audit of the Statement of Expenditure will also be undertaken and the
results will be provided to the Bank.
/1 The maximum subloan size was previously P 2.5 million.
/2 For subprojects above the free limit, IGLF and DBP will be required to
complete the Bank's subproject data sheet.



- 49 -
Agreements and Understandings Reached at Negotiations
5.18      During negotiations the Bank reached agreements with:
(a)  DBP and IGLF on:
(i) interest rates to be charged to end-users (para. 5.10);
(ii) maximum subloan size (para. 5.12);
(iii) free limit to be applied (para. 5.15);
(iv) provision of quarterly reports to the Bank on the basis of
agreed formats (para. 5.17);
(v) provision of audit report on DBP and IGLF; and an operational
audit of DBP/SMI and DBP/DDRB. In addition, IGLF and DBP
will require their accredited institutions to have their
accounts audited annually (para. 5.17):
(b) DBP on:
(i) issuance by DBP of its revised SMI Lending Strategy Statement
by September 30, 1982 (para. 4.04)
(ii) the Action Program developed for DBP's SMI operations
(Annex 2, Attachment 2). As the time required to fully
implement the Action Program is likely to be significant, the
DBP direct lending component of the proposed loan will be
disbursed in two equal tranches. The following elements of
the Action Program will be conditions for release of the
second tranche: implementation of the recommendations of the
MIS study; implementation of the agreed supervision program;
and improvement in the collection rates and arrears ratios on
the basis of the agreed targets (para. 4.16);
(iii) issuance by DDRB of a Lending Strategy Statement and a
Policy Manual by September 30, 1982 which would include the
accreditation criteria as well as operating policies and
procedures for accredited PDBs (para. 4.27);
(iv) at least 60% of the subloans (by value) rediscounted under
the project would be used by PDBs located outside Metro
Manila for subprojects outside Metro Manila (para. 4.27);



- 50 -
(c) IGLF on:
(i) issuance of IGLF's Lending Strategy and Policy
Manual (paras. 4.35);
(d)  the Government on:
(i) adequacy of staff and budgetary resources to carry out
BSMI and SBAC/MASICAP's responsibilities under the project
(para. 1.16);
(ii) consultation with the Bank about any major changes
affecting the operations of BSMI and the SBAC/MASICAP program
(para. 1.16);
(iii) pilot project financing arrangements and Bank approval of
all pilot projects (paras. 4.47 and 4.49); and
(iv) periodic review of interest rates charged to end-users to
ensure that they remain in line with market rates (para. 5.10).
5.19      In addition, at negotiation the Bank reached understandings with
DBP and IGLF on:
(i) post-disbursement review of subloans (para. 5.15); and
(ii) computation of the financial and economic rates of return
of subprojects (para. 5.16);
5.20      Conditions of Effectiveness.  The signing of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between the Government and DBP would be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed project (para. 5.08).
5.21      Recommendation.  A Bank loan of US$132 million (inclusive of a
front-end fee of US$2 million), for a term of 20 years including 5 years of
grace, is recommended to be made to the Government of the Philippines to
finance the IGLF program, DBP's SMI and PDB operations and further develop
the SBAC/MASICAP program of MTI.



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ministry of Trade and Industry
Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Development
in the Philippines: Policy and Strategy for the 1980s
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        Small and medium industries (SMI) play a major role in the develop-
ment of the Philippine economy. In manufacturing, SMI account for more than
90% of the total number of establishments in the organized sector, employ
almost 50% of workers and contribute about 30% of value-added.
2.        The Government recognizes the importance of SMI and, starting in the
second half of the last decade, has begun a conscious effort to develop SMI.
The Bureau of Small and Medium Industries in the Ministry of Industry was
established in 1974; technical assistance programs were designed to respond to
the problems of the sector, and lending to SMI was increased. To extend
assistance to small firms in the regions, the Ministry of Industry created the
Medium and Small Industries Coordinated Action Program (MASICAP) and Small
Business Advisory Centers (SBAC), which have helped with project preparation
and technical and management consultancy. The Ministry of Industry also
encouraged and coordinated the participation of other government agencies in
the SMI development effort.
3.        The experiences gained in these SMI development activities provide
an important basis for the SMI Development Strategy for the 1980s.
II.  SMI DEFINITION
4.        The Ministry of Trade and Industry promotes SMI development in
manufacturing, trading and service sectors. Presently, the Government applies
the following three criteria to define SMI for different administrative and
assistance purposes:
(a) Definition based on asset size for lending purposes: small
industries are those with total assets between P 250,000 and
P 2.5 million at the time of loan application while medium-scale
industries have total assets at the time of loan application, of



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
up to P 10 million. The Government recognizes the need to
adjust this definition periodically to reflect changing economic
conditions.
(b) Definition based on number of employees for statistical purposes:
small industries are those employing 10-99 workers and medium
industries are those employing 100-199 workers.
(c) Definition based on management structure: small industries are
enterprises in which the owner-manager performs the varied range
of tasks involved in operating the enterprise without the help of
specialized staff officers.
These three criteria will be considered in the provision of technical
assistance to SMI.
III. SMI POLICY OBJECTIVES
5.        SMI will continue to contribute to the Government's development
objectives which are stated in the National Development Plan and include:
(a) equitable distribution of wealth;
(b) increased employment generation;
(c) improved living standards of the poor;
(d) countryside development; and
(e) utilization of indigenous resources.
6.        The framework for SMI development in the industrial sector is
provided by the Government's national industrialization objectives:
(a) accelerated employment creation;
(b) increased foreign exchange earnings to support the country's
development programs and growing import bills;
(c) a dynamic industrial structure that is efficient and internationally
competitive; and
(d) an equitable distribution of the benefits of industrialization among
the Filipino people.
7.        In support of these objectives, the Government has initiated a
program of industrial policy reform. While these reforms will improve the
policy framework for the entire industrial sector, several measures are
expected to have a particular impact on SMI.  The first phase of policy reform
focuses on trade; the realignment of tariffs that is currently being imple-
mented will lead to greater competitiveness of Philippine manufactured exports
and will contribute to the increased efficiency of industries producing for
the domestic market. Export incentives have also been strengthened to



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
complement these reforms. In the second phase of industrial policy reform,
the investment incentives system will be revised to encourage export produc-
tion, employment generation and the growth of industry in the regions.
8.        In support of these policy objectives, the government will imple-
ment an industrialization strategy consisting of seven major components which
are:
(a)  rationalization and restructuring of existing key industry
sectors;
(b)  increased emphasis on the promotion of small and medium-scale
industries;
(c)  accelerated dispersal of industries and the promotion
of employment-generating projects;
(d)  stronger cooperation and coordination between the Government and
the private sector in the planning and implementation of industrial
policies and programs;
(e)  a focused and organized export promotion program;
(f)  continued encouragement of foreign investments in selected areas;
and
(g)  accelerated implementation of the 11 major industrial projects.
9.        Within the framework of the Philippines' industrialization strategy,
the specific objectives for SMI development will be:
(a)  Increased Geographical Dispersion of SMI
(i) The Government will continue to encourage the establishment
and growth of SMI as they can contribute significantly to
increased regional dispersal of industry and to more
balanced regional development.
(ii) Particular emphasis will be given to the identification and
promotion of SMI which can be established in smaller towns
and outlying regions. Locational flexibility and production
for the local market are important SMI features which will
support this objective.
(iii) The MASICAP program of the Ministry of Trade and Industry has
assisted SMI establishment and expansion in the regions by
providing them with technical assistance in the conduct of



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
project feasibility studies needed for the availment of
loans from financing institutions. The SBACs provided
technical and management advisory services. The provision
of this assistance will be sustained and enhanced for the
coming years to accelerate the development of SMI in the
regions.
(b) Creation of New Employment Opportunities
The considerable potential of SMI to use labor-intensive
production techniques will be developed further to enable 9MI
to increase its already substantial provision of employment
opportunities.
(c) Promotion of Export-Oriented Small and Medium Industries
The Government in its drive to promote and support exports, will
seek to identify exportable products in whose production SMI can
participate either directly as exporters or as suppliers to
larger firms and trading companies. SMI products which have
distinct comparative advantages both in the utilization of
indigenous raw materials and local labor will be developed.
Initiatives shall be taken to assist SMI with export potential
with regard to product design and quality to increase market-
ability abroad.
(d) Diversification of the Industrial Structure
The existence of a broad entrepreneurial middle class is a key
element in economic stability. S14I offer the most promising means
of promoting entrepreneurship given limited financial resources
and scarce technical and managerial expertise. Hence, the pro-
motion of SMI will contribute to broadening the entrepreneurial
base within the country. This objective is also in line with the
Government's commitment to increasing private sector participation
in industrial development.
(e) Increased Utilization of Indigenous Raw Materials
The Government will encourage SMI to increase their use of local
raw materials and assist them in the provision of these raw
materials. SMI development will thus permit the tapping of
resources which otherwise would not have been utilized, particu-
larly in the less developed areas.



- 55 -
ANNEX I
Page 5
IV. MAJOR ELEMENTS OF THE SMI DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
11.       To attain the above mentioned objectives, the SMI Development
Strategy for the 1980s will have the following major elements:
(a) Contribution to Geographical Dispersion of SMI
Geographical dispersion of SMI will be promoted through:
(i) regional industry subsector studies which will identify
SMI having a comparative advantage based on regional
factor endowment and existing regional specialization of
production;
(ii) the increased regional focus of SMI financial and technical
assistance programs and institutions;
(iii) strengthening regional investment incentives; and
(iv) establishment of the National Industrial Estates Program
which will operate as the nuclei for SMI development in the
regions.
(b) Strengthening of SMI Development Planning Programming
(i) The Ministry of Trade and Industry is currently introducing
the approach of subsector development planning to restructure
problem industries and encourage new industries with a
potential comparative advantage. These subsector plans at the
national level will cover several subsectors in which SMI
represent a large number of firms and will therefore provide
a planning framework for subsectoral SMI development. Among
the national priority subsectors already identified are food,
wood, metal working, and mechanical engineering, garments,
and leather industries.
(ii) Within this framework, BSMI and the SBACs, will continue to
undertake several types of SMI industry studies to provide
the basis for focused SMI assistance programs;
a. SMI subsector studies at the national level will
determine industry-wide problems and assistance
requirements;
b. SMI subsector studies at the regional level will
determine region-specific industrial problems and
assistance requirements; these studies will also identify



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
new industries which should be promoted in specific
regions.
(c) Access of SMI to Financial Resources
(i) In order to further facilitate the access of SMI to
financing and to make the financial system more responsive to
the specific needs of SMI, the Government will take the
following approaches:
a. Long-term lending to SMI will continue to be provided
through Government financial institutions although the
participation of private financial institutions is
increasing. Additional channels of SMI lending will be
strengthened, particularly to reach SMI firms in the
regions.
b. The Government will continue to provide guarantee
schemes to reduce the collateral requirements for SMI
borrowers.
c. Schemes of "lending in kind" through equipment leasing
will be introduced to reduce the needs of SMI to invest
in fixed assets.
d. Equity financing by Venture Capital Corporations will
continue to support SMI.
e. Additional financing schemes for working capital will
be introduced or strengthened (e.g., subcontracting
financing, financing of purchase orders for export SMI,
in-kind raw material financing).
(d) Strengthening of SMI Technical Assistance
(i) With the SBAC/MASICAP taking the lead role, the technical
assistance agencies for S14I will cooperate to expand
providing the following services to SMI:
a. Business-counselling for individual firms or groups of
firms will be strengthened.
b. Assistance in the preparation of SMI project feasibility
studies will be improved.
c. Assistance in technology delivery and quality control
will be provided either directly through the technical



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7
institutes or through a referral system operated by the
SBAC/ MAS ICAP.
(ii) For the delivery of these services, the principle of cost
sharing, introduced in 1980, will be maintained and gradually
expanded.
(e) Strengthening of Training
(i) The Government will assist in the provision of training
programs which are geared towards the needs of SMI:
a. Vocational training courses will have an increased focus
on specific industries and take account of the
requirements of SMI.
b., Training courses for SMI entrepreneurs will be expanded.
c,  Training for additional industrial extension staff will
be provided as well as courses in support of specific
extension tasks.
(f) Domestic Market Assistance
(i) The Government recognizes the importance of marketing for
SMI and is providing assistance in the following areas to
strengthen the marketing capabilities of SMI:
a. The subcontracting program that has been operated by
MTI in conjunction with DBP on a pilot basis will be
strengthened; a subcontracting exchange will be
established to facilitate linkages between SMI and
large firms which are interested in subcontracting.
b. SBAC/MASICAP will assist in providing information on
markets for selected SMI products in the domestic
market.
c. SBAC/MASICAP will also assist SMI in exploring
arrangements for raw material procurement.
d. The possibilities of collective marketing arrangements
for SMI will be explored.
(g) Promotion of SMI Exports
(i) In support of the Government's export promotion programs,
the export potential of SMI will be developed further:



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8
a. The use of marketing intermediaries for export will be
increased, in particular the use of the 12 accredited
trading corporations (ATCs). The SBAC/MASICAP staff
will work closely with the ATCs to promote SMI exports.
b.  SBAC/MASICAP will liaise with the Government s export
promotion services to provide information on export
markets suitable for small- and medium-scale
industries.
c. SMI export products will be promoted through trade
fairs and expositions.
(h) Continued Efforts to Develop Technologies and Products Suitable
for SMI Production
Mi) The Government will increase the emphasis of technological
research oriented towards products and production processes
appropriate for SMI.
(ii) The SMI assistance institutions will help by establishing
pilot projects that apply and test the result of these
research activities.
(i)  Development nf Mutual Help and Self-Reliance among SMI
The government will assist SMI in identifing and establishing
services that might be provided more economically through common
facilities. These services could comprise common laboratory and
testing centers, common repair service centers, common ware-
housing, market outlets, and delivery facilities. While the
Government is willing to participate in the establishment and
initial operation of these facilities, they ultimately should be
taken over by private investors or associations of SMI.
V. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR SMI DEVELOPMENT
12.       Concerning the institutional framework for SMI policy design, the
Bureau of Small and Medium Industries of the MTI has been assigned lead role
for SMI policy design. BSMI will coordinate with other government agencies
and the private sector whenever needed for specific SMI policy issues, as
well as review the implementation of the SMI Strategy.
13.       Concerning the institutional framework for SMI assistance programs,
BSMI also takes the lead role for the design of SMI assistance programs by the
MTI.  The SBACs are the implementing arm of BSMI assistance programs in the
regions.



- 59 -
ANNEX i
Page 9
14.       Within the framework of the SMI strategy for the 1980s, agencies
extending assistance to SMI will draft action programs to support specific
elements of this strategy. BSMI and the SBACs will coordinate and cooperate
with other SMI assistance agencies at the working level with respect to these
implementation of the action programs.
15.       Private sector participation in SMI development is an important
thrust of the Government's SMI Strategy. The Government is committed to
include representatives of small and medium-sized firms and their associations
in the ongoing industrial sector dialogues. In addition, MTI encourages the
formation of SMI associations on an industry and regional level to discuss
specific policy concerns and to gradually assume an increased role in SMI
assistance.



- 60 -                       ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Draft Lending Strategy for 1982-1986 for
Cottage, Small and Medium Industries
Target
1.        Financing of SMIs will continue to rank high in DBP's lending
priorities. Financial assistance to the sector is estimated to amount to
P 1.48 billion from 1982-1986.
Coverage of SMI Financing
2.        Cottage, small and medium industries shall be defined based on
the total asset size of the enterprise at the time of filing of loan
application. Accordingly, maximum loan sizes shall be assigned for each
category.
2.        The SMI lending program of the DBP shall cover the financing of
fixed assets acquisition, contingency allowances and working capital
requirement of manufacturing enterprises registered in the Philippines and
engagea/proposing to en?gea in cottage, small or medium industry operations.
Assistance to service-oriented projects which have vital linkages to SMIs
will also be pursued selectively.
4.        Aside from the regular SMI lending program, the DBP shall imple-
ment special financing packages designed for specific beneficiaries such as
submarginal families engaged in home industries, residents of government
resettlement areas who have entrepreneurial potentials, Filipino inventors
promoting the use of indigenous raw materials and energy conservation; SMI
subcontractors, and venture capital corporations. From time to time,
special programs will be designed depending on the specific needs of the
sector and explicit government policy.
Resource Allocation
5.        Lending will be approached on a priority basis to be determined by
the impact of the project on the economy and the project's commercial
profitability.
6.        To ensure optimum benefits to the economy from its SMI financing
program, DBP shall be guided by the following strategies:



-61 -                         ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 2
(a) Regional Dispersal. DBP's SMI financing in regions outside
Metro Manila, Southern Tagalog and Central Luzon will account
for at least 50% of DBP's total SMI financing. The DBP has
identified 15 key branches which, based on the potential of the
regions and accelerated growth in the past years, may provide
the lead for regional expansion of the SMI sector.
(b) Utilization of Local Raw Materials and Energy Conservation.
Priority will be given to projects utilizing indigenous raw
materials. The DBP will also give weight to projects which
are in line with the energy conservation program of the
government.
(c) Export Promotion. DBP intends to adopt a more assertive
role in promoting export consciousness and in undertaking
export-liaison work. To this end, the DBP will implement
a special financing program for export trading companies.
(d) Promotion of Labor-Intensive Industries. Promotion of labor-
intensive industries will continue to be one of the main
objectives of DBP's lending to SMIs. Generation of about
60,000 jobs at an investment cost of P 26,000 per job
is targeted for the next five years.
(e) Subcontracting Activities. Relative to its labor-generation
OujieLive, the DBP will continue to engage in the promotion
of subcontracting activities through its subcontracting
financing program. Subcontracting is envisioned to be an
important strategy for the creation of jobs at a lower capital
investment per job as well as being significant in export
promotion activities.
Project Appraisal Guidelines
7.        Procedures for initial screening and handling of loan application
shall be streamlined to reduce processing time.
(a) For cottage industries, project evaluation shall center on
the entrepreneurial capability of the borrower and his credit
responsibility. Evaluation of the technical feasibility of
the project shall be in general terms. Financial projections
shall be made only for the first year after financing has been
granted.
(b) For small industries, the market, technical, and financial
feasibility studies shall be undertaken in greater detail
in addition to a careful evaluation of the proponent's credit
worthiness and entrepreneurial skills.



- 62 -                       ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 3
(c)  For medium industries, a detailed study of the past financial
performance of the enterprise and the economic, technical, and
financial feasibility study of the project shall be undertaken.
Careful evaluation shall be done on the management aspect of
the project and the creditworthiness of the project proponents.
8.        For loans of P 500,000 and above, the project's financial review
will include computation of the internal rate of return of the project,
breakeven analysis and sensitivity analysis.
9.        Economic rate of return shall be computed for projects with loan
components of P 3.5 million and above.
Project Supervision
10.       The DBP will upgrade and intensify loan supervision efforts of SMILE
as well as of the branches with emphasis on preventive supervision.
Systematic follow-up on the progress and operations of DBP-financed projects
will be undertaken to keep DBP-s management informed of current project status
so that timely and appropriate action may be taken. DBP therefore requires
its borrowers to submit regular periodic reports on operational and financial
performance. This may also involve project visits to confirm the state of
progress, to check on the efficiency, organization and management of the
project and to discuss problems of mutual concern with the borrower-s
management.
11.       To further ensure the efficient use and recovery of DBP-s resources,
DBP will continue to take measures to reduce the level of arrearages of its
SMI loan portfolio. Accounts in arrears will be analyzed to determine the
causes for arrears and to determine the repayment capacity of the enterprise.
On the basis of this analysis, DBP's management will take appropriate measures
for collection, rescheduling, restructuring, or foreclosure of the account.
Implementation and Training
12.       To implement its lending program more efficiently and effectively,
the DBP will regularly review the organization set-up as well as functional
relationship between SMILE and the Branches. The SMILE Department will act
as the overall SMI program administrator.
13.       Branch personnel will be assigned permanently to attend to SMI
functions, including reporting. Assistance will be extended by the Head
Office to the branches in the appraisal and supervision of SMI projects.
14.       Continuous upgrading of skills and capability of SMILE and branch
SMI staff will be pursued.



- 63 -                       ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 4
Reporting
15.       The information system will be improved so as to generate accurate
and timely reporting.



- 64 -                    ANNEX 2
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Program of Action
1.        The management of DBP has initiated the following Action Program to
help make its institutional set-up more responsive to the needs of the complex
small and medium industries (SMI) program under its administration and to
better achieve its broader objectives of: promotion and development of the
SMI sector, a more equitable income distribution through regional dispersal of
investment, and the broadening of the country-s entrepreneurial base.
2.        Definition of SMI.  For its SMI operations, DBP will define cottage,
small and medium industries on the basis of the size of total assets of the
enterprise at the time of loan application rather than on the loan amount
granted, as had been the case in the past. Accordingly, those enterprises
with total assets of up to P 250,000 at the time of loan application would
be defined as cottage industries, those with total assets of P 250,000-
2.5 million would be small industries, and those with assets of P 2.5-
10.0 million would be medium industries. This definition would be used in all
aspects of DBP-s SMI lending including determining the eligibility of enter-
prises for receiving DBP SMI financing, and in establishing the appropriate
interest rate to be charged; in addition, the definition would be uniformly
applied on all of DBP's SMI operations, irrespective of the source of funds
used by DBP.
3.        Organization of SMILE.  Given the increasingly complex nature of
DBP-s SMI lending, DBP-s management has decided to reorganize the SMILE
Department to increase its effectiveness in providing guidance to and
monitoring DBP-s SMI operations. The main features of the reorganized SMILE
would be: (a) establishment of a branch group /1 to review branch appraisal
reports, oversee branch SMI operations, provide branches with needed
assistance and receive operational branch data; (b) a special financing
schemes (SFS) group would be separately staffed from other operating groups so
that the administration of the SFS do not impinge on DBP's regular SMI
operations; and (c) establishment of four project appraisal/supervision groups
in charge DBP's regular head office SMI operations. Within these groups,
appraisal and supervision functions would be handled by separate and distinct
/1 The term group is used to define the functions/staff assigned to an
Assistant Manager.



- 65 -                     ANNEX 2
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 2
units /1 of staff./2 The administrative collection functions would be removed
from project supervision and performed by a separate unit of the administra-
tion group. A revised organizational chart of the SMILE Department which
incorporates th,e major functions of each group is attached (Chart 1).
Implementation of the revised organization for SMILE will be completed by
September 30, 1982.
4.        Organization of the Branches.  DBP's strategy for its future SMI
operations vis--a-vis the Head Office (SMILE) and the branches is to allocate
the functional responsibility of eoordinating and monitoring its overall SMI
operations to SMILE and strengthen SMI staffing in the branches. DBP's
management has therefore given SMILE clear functional authority over branch
SMI operations and has agreed to establish SMI units in all of DBP's branches.
Under DBP Circular No. 71, a three-person SMI unit has been established in all
the branches. The Amendment to Circular No. 71 requires that in the 15 DBP
branches most active in SMI lending,/3 the SMI staff will be engaged solely in
SMI branch operations; in the other branches the SMI units will be responsible
for all branch SMI operations but will engage in other activities when time
permits. To the extent possible, the rotation of trained SMI staff in the
branches will be managed so as to minimize the impact on the unit's
operations. The SMI branch units will be established and have started
operations by September 30, 1982.
5.        Management Information Study.  DBP has faced long-standing problems
with regard to the effective monitoring of its SMI operations and meeting the
reporting reqtLirements of the Government and its creditors. DBP's management
aas therefore undertaken to establish an effective management information
system (MIS) for its SMI operations. In order to design an appropriate
system, an MIS consultant will be assigned to the SMILE Department to examine
its data collection requirements and procedures. The essential functions of
the MIS consultant would be to:
(a) undertake an inventory of the current data base for Head Office
and branch SMI operations with a view to resolving discrepancies
between SMI data generated by different units within SMILE, branch
and Head Office data on SMI operations, and data generated by
EDP /4 and SMILE;
/1 A unit is a part of a group.
/2 Both appraisal and supervision groups will be organized on an indus-
trial subsector basis.
/3 Cebu, Davao, Cagayan de Oro, Balanga, Bacolod, Baguio, General Santos,
Dagupan, Lucena, Tacloban, Tarlac, Zamboanga, Legaspi, Roxas, Dipolog.
/4 DBP's data processing department.



- 66 -                      ANNEX 2
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 3
(b)  design an internal reporting system for SMILE and branch SMI
operations which would be compatible with DBP's overall MIS and
its proposed computerization; at a minimum, this reporting
system would generate data which would enable DBP to meet its
reporting requirements to the Government and its creditors;
(c)  establish an effective monitoring and evaluation system for
both DBP's overall SMI program and the direct SMI lending of
SMILE and the branches; and
(d)  establish a system of data generation and processing between
SMILE, the branches and EDP to ensure timely and accurate
operational and financial reports.
The MIS study is to be completed by September 30, 1982 and implementation of
its recommendations will be a condition for release of the second tranche.
6.        Revision of Operational Manuals.  In order to formalize its proce-
dures and policies regarding project appraisal, implementation and supervi-
sion, DBP would review its existing appraisal, supervision and implementation
manuals on SMI operations with a view to updating and upgrading them. The
revised manuals will be sent to the Bank for review by December 31, 1982 and
will be implemented by March 31, 1983.
7.        Streamlining of Procedures.  DBP plans to introduce a number of
changes in its operating procedures to upgrade its SMI operations. In parti-
cular, DBP has decided to concentrate on:
(a)  reducing processing time:/1  At present DBP's SMI lending opera-
tions are undertaken both at Head Office and in the branches.
As a condition for release of the second tranche DBP has agreed
to reduce its average loan processing to 60 calendar days for
both Head Office and branch operations, effective January 1,
1983. The average will be for the period January-December of
each year and will be calculated separately for Head Office and
Branch SMI operations.
/1 Processing time is computed from the date of receipt of the application
by DBP to the date of final approval by DBP.



- 67 -                      ANNEX 2
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 4
(b) upgrading supervision capabilities: In order to upgrade its SMI
operations, DBP considers it necessary that SMILE and the
branches undertake a systematic follow-up on the progress of its
SMI operations to: (i) establish whether the actual developments
correspond with the expectations and projections on the basis of
which the investment decision was made; and (ii) keep DBP's
management informed of the project status so that timely and
appropriate action can be taken. DBP considers that supervision
should start during the implementation phase of the project and
would continue until the loan is fully repaid. Supervision
priorities in order to importance would be: (i) problem
accounts; (ii) loans within the implementation period (from
approval until the commencement of commercial production);
(iii) depressed industries; and (iv) completed projects repaying
regularly. The frequency of project supervision deemed adequate
by DBP is provided in Schedule 1. Full implementation of the
supervision program by DBP would be a condition for release of
the second tranche; and
(c) improving disbursement procedures: With respect to its disburse-
ment procedures, DBP considers that, to the extent possible, it
would be advisable for DBP to make payments directly to suppliers
in the case of fixed assets and transportation vehicles and to
contractors in the case of civil works. Payments in these cases
would be made against invoices, bills and contracts. In those
instances when this was not possible, payments to the borrowers
would be made against: invoices and purchase orders for fixed
assets and transportation vehicles; contracts for civil works; and
purchase of raw materials in those instances when civil works are
being undertaken by the entrepreneurs. In all cases, DBP would
retain all the supporting documents against which payments were
made.
8.        Quality of Portfolio.  DBP is concerned with the high arrears ratio
and default rate on its SMI portfolio and considers it advisable to undertake
some concrete measures, such as systematic supervision, and corrective actions
(restructuring, write offs, foreclosures, etc.) to improve its portfolio.
DBP has recently approved guidelines for arrears management; these would be
applied to its Head Office and branch SMI portfolio on a project-by-project
basis. This review and the accompanying appropriate action (rescheduling
or forclosure) is to be completed by September 30, 1982 for the Head Office
portfolio and December 31, 1982 for the branch portfolio. As a result of
these actions, the impact on the collection rates and arrears ratios expected
to be achieved during the next few years is as follows:



- 68 -                      ANNEX 2
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 5
Reduction in
arrears ratio      Portfolio affected          Increase in
as % of loans /a  by arrears /b as a           collection      Target to be
outstanding        % of outstanding (%)         ratio _c        achieved by
Head  Branches    No.           Amount           (%)
office
3 /d    1 /d      60             45            10        June 30, 1983
1       1         55             40            5         December 31, 1983
1       1         50             35 /e         5         December 31, 1984
1       1         45             30 /e          5        December 31, 1985
/a  Arrears = (Principal in arrears + Interest in arrears + Other charges)xlO0
as a % of                 Total Principal Outstanding
outstanding
portfolio
/b A loan is deemed to be in arrears if it is in arrears for over 90 days.
Ic Collection ratio = Cash collections during the period x 100
Total collectibles during the period
/d Of the 3% reduction in Head Office arrears, 2% is to be achieved by
December 31, 1982; the 1% reduction in branch arrears is also to be
achieved by December 31, 1982.
/e Targets will be reviewed at the time of evaluation for release of the
second tranche.
9.        Training.  Staff in the SMILE Department and SMI staff in the
branches will receive training along with the staff of the DDRB and the
Private Development Banks. DBP has asked the University of the Philippines
Institute for Small Scale Industry (UP-ISSI) to hold, during 1982, four
specialized courses on Project Evaluation and Supervision for SMI. It is
expected that 140 staff will attend these courses broken down roughly as
follows: SMILE (25-30), DBP branches (60),/1 DDRB (10-15) and PDBs (40)./2
The details of the training program agreed between DBP and the Bank are given
in Schedules 2, 3 and 4; it has also been agreed that course material for
newly introduced courses will be sent to the Bank for review/comment three
months prior to the course being held.
/1  All the SMI staff (45) in the 15 DBP branches most active in SMI
lending and one SMI staff member (15) from 15 of the remaining
branches active in SMI lending.
/2  Thirty SMI staff from the 15 PDBs which have been tentatively
identified for accreditation and one each from another 10 PDBs.



- 69 -                     ANNEX 2
ATTACHMENT 2
Schedule 1
FREQUENCY OF SUPERVISION OF DBP'S SMI PORTFOLIO
Cottage /a    Small /a      Medium /a
industry      industry      industry
1. Visits by DBP staff to lb
- projects under implemen-
tation /c                    Quarterly      Quarterly      Quarterly
- completed projects repaying
regularly                    Annually       Annually       Annually
-  projects in arrears /d          Quarterly      Quarterly      Quarterly
-  projects in distressed
industries                   Semi-annually Semi-annually Semi-annually
2. Analysis of Reports
-  Progress reports /e             Quarterly     Quarterly      Quarterly
-  Operational reports /f          Annually      Annually       Annually
-  Completion reports            - within 45 days of project completion -
/a Enterprises with total assets before financing of: up to P 250,000 are
defined as cottage industry; P 250,000 - P 2.5 million as small
.ndustry; and P 2. million - P 10.0 million as medium industry.
/b All project visits would result in an operational report prepared by the
DBP staff concerned.
/c Follow up visit before each release or every 3 months whichever is
sooner.
/d Projects in arrears for over 90 days.
/e Progress reports (those provided by borrowers on an agreed periodic
basis) from projects repaying regularly would be reviewed at
the Assistant Manager level; in the case of progress reports from
projects in arrears a course of action would be developed by DBP which
would be reviewed at the manager level.
/f Operational reports highlighting the progress/problems of the project
would be prepared by DBP staff following each project visit.



-70-                            ANNEX 2
ATTACHMENT 2
Schedule 2
PHILIPPINES
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Proposed Training Program for SMILE and Branch SMI Staff
To be conducted
Participants              During               By
Course                     per year      1981      1982     1984
A. SMILE Staff
2nd qtr   2nd qtr  2nd qtr  DBI
Project evaluation             12        4th qtr   4th qtr  4th qtr
& supervision /a
1st sem  1st sem  DBI &
Corporate planning              2        2nd sem   2nd sem  2nd sem  other
agencies
Economic Analysis               2
Management information                   2nd qtr   2nd qtr  2nd qtr  DBI &
system                        2        4th qtr   2nd qtr             other
agencies
Financing of SMI                1        4th qtr   2nd qtr  2nd qtr  UP-ISSI/
ADFIAP
B.  Branch Staff /b
Project evaluation
& supervision /a          40-50        4 courses in each year         DBI
Branch Planning                20        1 seminar in October           DBI
/a  In addition, during 1982, 25 staff of SMILE and 60 staff of branches will
participate in four courses to be offered by UP-ISSI.
/b  Priority will be given to staff in 15 most active branches.
AEP Projects Department
February 15, 1982



- 71 -                           ANNEX 2
ATTACHMENT 2
Schedule 3
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Proposed Training Program for DDRB Staff
Parti-                  To be conducted
cipants            During                       By
Course                    per course  1982       1983       1984
Project evaluation and       6-8      4 cour-   1st qtr   1st qtr   DBI
supervision /a                        ses     3rd qtr   3rd qtr
Institutional evalua-        6-8      1st qtr   1st qtr   1st qtr   DBI
tion/supervision /b                3rd qtr   3rd qtr
Financing of SMI              1       4th qtr   2nd qtr   2nd qtr   UP-ISSI/ADFIAP
Management assistance         1       2nd sem   1st sem   1st sem   UP-ISSI/CRC
program                                       2nd sem
Environmental appraisal       1       1st sem                        CRC
Management information        1       2nd qtr   2nd qtr   2nd qtr   DBI and other
system                             4th qtr   4th qtr               institutions
Corporate planning            4      4th qtr   1st sem   1st sem   DBI and other
2nd sem   2nd sem   institutions
/a  During 1982, four courses on Project Evaluation and Supervision will be con-
ducted by UP-ISSI in which a total of 25 staff of DDRB will participate.
/b During 1982, two courses on Institutional Evaluation and Supervision will be
conducted by the University of the Philippines.
AEP Projects Department
February 15, 1982



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
ATTACHMENT 2
Schedule 4
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Proposed Training Program for PDB Staff
A. Summary of Courses
To be conducted
Parti-                            During                By
Courses                    cipants   Duration       1982      1983       1984
Project evaluation and    30-35    4-5 weeks   1st qtr                             DBI
supervision /a                                  3rd qtr                          DBI
1st qtr              DBI
3rd qtr              DBI
1st qtr   DBI
3rd qtr   DBI
Executive seminar             30      1 day        1st qtr   1st qtr   1st qtr   DBI
2nd qtr   2nd qtr   2nd qtr   DBI
3rd qtr   3rd qtr   3rd qtr   DBI
Management information
system                      25     5 days       2nd qtr   2nd qtr   2nd qtr   DBI
Corporate planning            30     1 week                  4th qtr   4th qtr   DBI
Specialized courses in:
Credit investigation        30     2 days                  2nd qtr   2nd qtr   DBI
SSE Promotion               30     1 week                  2nd qtr   2nd qtr   DBI
Tellers/cashiers            30     1 week                  4th qtr   4th qtr   DBI
Extension services          30     1 week                  4th qtr   4th qtr   DBI
Financial analysis          30     1 week                  2nd qtr   2nd qtr   DBI
Economic analysis           30     1 week                  4th qtr   4th qtr   DBI
/a  In addition, 40 staff of PDBs will participate in four courses to be offered
by UP-ISSI during 1982.



B. Details of Program by PDBs
Project evaluation               Executive          Management
and supervision course              seminar            information      Corporate  Specialized/e
1st   3rd   1st   3rd   1st   3rd   1st   2nd   3rd            system         planning        courses
qtr   qtr   qtr   qtr   qtr   qtr   qtr   qtr   qtr            2nd qtr         4th qtr   2nd & 4th qt
1982  1982  1983  1983  1984  -1984  1982  1983  1984  1982  1983  1984  1983  1984    1983/84
Selected PDBs
Capitol City           1      1     1      1     1      1     1     1      1     1      1      1     1      1        1
Cavite                 1      1     1      1     1      1     1     1      1     1      1      1     1      1        1
Dev. Bank of Rizal    1       1     1      1     1      1     1     1      1     1      1      1     1      1        1
Davao City             1      1     1      1     1      1     1     1      1     1      1      1     1      1        1
Lipa City              1      0     1      1     1      1     1     1      1     1      1      1     1      1        1
Luzon                  1      1     1      1     1      1     1     1      1      1     1      1     1      1        1
Peninsula              1      0     1      1     1      1     1     1      1     1      1      1     1      1        1
Peoples                1      1     1      1     1      1     1     1      1      1     1      1     1      1        1
Planters               2      1     1      1     1      1     1     1      1     1      1      1     1      1        1
Premiere               1      1     1      1     1      1     1     1      1     1      1      1     1      1        1
Quezon                 1      0     1      1     1      1     1     1      1      1     1      1     1      1        1
Second Bulacan         1      1     2      1     1     1      1     1      1     1      1      1     1      1        1
Second Laguna          1      1     1      1     1     1      1     1      1     1      1      1     1      1        1
Southern Negros        1      1     1      1     1     1      1     1      1     1      1      1     1      1        1
Urban                  2      1     1      1     1      1     1      1     1      1     1      1     1      1        1
Subtotal           17    12    16    15    15    15    15    15    15    15    15    15    15    15             15
Other PDBs              13    18    14    15    15    15    15    15    15    10    10    10    15    15              15
Total              30    30    30    30    30    30    30    30    30    25    25    25    30    30             30
/a  One person from each PDB in each course.
AEP Projects Department                                                                                                 c > z
February 15, 1982
Z



- 74 -
A00,kX 2
PHILIPPINES                                                                                                Attachment 2
THIRD SMI DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                    C-
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES LENDING (SMILE) DEPARTMENT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
EH: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.| .                     E3......
Aanasltlsllass                   A                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SnnssMnt,ms,A Aaa   tnO Is
p                                                                                                                                                                                                    =  nd  tma ll  l   l   ea nch Assisbns I -H I mSo5rr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lI sa l A     C s U l        0 55 5
011555    sslyasup-                          la ns        u irVGsolyn,                                                       AISaSSI          - eke  Awluwtms                                                                                                                                                  Ass,u  |115.                                                                       01 dl015e ru  rupIGop  IlSela  oXal     ru
t1,Aw     Alslansr                    I       anose         DIsIAF                      at Iqe A , il anel<                                                      CAsI n        M     IIIl         I    Asoun nose                        AcTs,a            PasCal          DiaAI                               UlAm            Ucan l                                             AISCI                CTnDe
|   JFCf,cTnNs|                                      FUNCTIONS                                  |        FUNCTIONS                                 I 5ANCTIONS                       |   FUNCTIONS         I       IRUNC1 IONS                               |      FRACTIONS                                   |       FUMTTIOFA S                                        FUNGi IAFT
DSsanErM         AmmmPsooll                               I                                           an cmmna lo Cssv,aslnof "               I   smAneseC ohslsIsasIIsssCI          ds,saIISua                Hadea-     ounFlnlfsnfCloIIstthI 3esuSaCCFI                                                  I                                                  I          CssCsIIsTIasIlIIalnI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~IsIsfbds as u SNI ssd,s a9 Psrlos |... . ..... t als                    IP IIIIlsUOlslIIsvIA  5151                              J         lAsl slssssssas wllsas suplCO sArssI |  I    I
l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    | PlasdsisaltsF daossstsasllos ..                                                                   ........ EsshsssssluaTllgsolpshll|   rossv>v I    151515     a5,llllslissIsToIssqu,sTs |
I~~~~                                                         ~            ~ II h ADmns odgo>nJn
l           l                                                 l   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ICslIaaal                                FOPsIIUl 
I  i  |                                             i  AAD m Jth EDP and  |                                 j                                                  l                                                  l                                                                                                     i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIlOl  3S



PHILIPPINES
THIIRD SHALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines - Special Financing Schemes
(P000)
Name of
agency                                        OuLstandinig                      Name of
Inter-  performing                                as of December 31, 1981    Total         agency
Source       Date      Amount    est       detailed    Approvals    Approvals   No. of                          arrears    holding
Name of                     of       of estab-  of cre-    rate    project        for 1980      for 1981       bor-    No. of               as of    repayment
special financing scheme        funding    lishment   dit line  % p.a.  appraisal   No.  Anmount  No.  Amount  rowers  accounts  Amount  12/31/81                risk
Cottage Industry Guarantee    NACIDA    03/11/81    800,000   12-14   NACIDA/DBP   -              -   44    3,772    10           22        876       80     DBP/NACIDA
Loan Fund (CIGLF)
Technology Resource Center    DBP/OECF  06/11/80    100,000/  15-21/  TRC/DBP             5 { 2,384    6 {  8,773        2         7        847        -     DBP/TRC
(TRC)                                                 US$22 m    8.75                     { 3,977       { 16,611      3         6      4,913        -
National Housing Auithority    WB          04/27/77       3,500    12       NHA/DBP       -        -    -         -   196        200      1,015      373     DBP/NHA
(NHA)
Ministry of Social Services   DBP          09/25/74       3,000      9      MSSD          -        -    -         -   815        815      1,368      920     DBP
and Development (MSSD) /a
Manufacturers Subcontracting  DBP          10/29/80      20,000   14-16   MSDO/DBP        -        -    1       286      1         1        262        -     DBP
Development Office (MSDO)
Philippine Investors Commis-  PIC/DBP   09/20/78          6,000   15-21   PIC-DBP         9   2,085    5        902      6        16      1,434      292     DBP/PIC
sion (PIC)
Maria Christina Chemical        DBP        11/12/80/c    5,000   15-21   DBP              -   _   _-                  -         -                 -           DBP/MCCI
Industries (MCCI) /b
Venture Capital Corporations  DBP/VCC   09/03/80/c   30,000          9      DBP           -        -    -         -      -         -          -        -     DBP
(VCC)
/a Financing for rural home industries.
/b Financing for charcoal producers.
/c No availments yet.
AEP Projects Department
February 15, 1982



- 76 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Summary of Operations of SMI Loans, 1976-81
(Amount in F'000)
1976              1977              1978               1979              1980               1981
Number   Amount  Number   Amount  Number   Amount  Number   Amount  Number   Amount  Number   Amount
Net Approvals
Cottage industry loans
SMILE                         151    2,772 ) 1,093   26,432 )   879   17,835         172    1,375      142    1,636       105    1,926
Branches                    1,014   21,509 )                  )                      608   19,931      620   23,416       173    4,352
Small industry loans
SMILE                         120   23,381 )   217   57,492 )   133   37,221          64   13,535       69   18,107       135   34,358
Branches                      125   24,914 )                  )                      168   49,663      203   58,613       350   55,559
Medium industry loans
SMILE                          39   73,254 )    41   77,518 )    23   56,196          41   75,126       40   63,143        35   81,055
Branches                       19   29,762 )                  )                        8   13,565       10   13,497        11   18,064
Subtotal SMILE            310   99,407       351  161 442   1035  111252          277   90,036      251   82,886      275  117,339
Subtotal Branches       1,158   76,185   1                   1       111252       784   83,159      833   95,526      534   77,975
Total                    1,468  175,592   1,351  161,442   1,035  111,252   1,061  173,195   1,084  178,412            809  195,314
Commitments
cottage industry loans
SMILE                         195    3,190       91    2,212        88    3,211       87    1,252       98    1,354       116    1,774
Branches                    1,933   29,612      244    9,720      273    9,708        57    1,058      296   15,123        NA        NA
Small industry loans
SMILE                         178   29,378      111   22,066        71   14,750       59   12,926       86   23,019       143   34,340
Branches                      448   64,700      238   31,537       217   28,349      410   53,368      485   91,663        NA        NA
Medium industry loans
SMILE                          71   86,988       34   60,230        34   56,679       32   53,451        32   49,122       37   72,650
Branches                       73   58,529        4    5,275         6    5,679       21   27,464        10   10,605       NA        NA
Subtotal SMILE             444  119,556      236   84,508      193   74,640       178   67,629      216   73,495      296  108,764
Subtotal Branches       2,454  152,841       486   46,532      496   43,736       488   81,890      791  117,392        NA       NA
Total                   2,898  272,397       722  131,040      689  118,376       666  149,519   1,007  190,887        296  108,764
Disbursements
Cottage industry loans
SMILE                         177    3,131                                                     923             1,454          3 10,322
Sranches                    1,7S-   22,755                                                     799                 -
Small industry loans
SMILE                         134   29,060                               16,399             14,728            12,548          )174,492
Branches                      340   24,989                               16,563            29,288             13,507
Medium industry loans
SMILE                          30   65,992                               55,027            58,299             59,697          3 46,467
Branches                       58   25,200                               12,764             16,898             8,585
Subtotal SMILE            341   98,183                                71,426            73,950             73,699            81,294
Subtotal Branches       2,164   72,944                                29,327            46,985             22,092           149,987
Total                   2,505  171,127             125,608 /a        100,753 /a        120,935             95,791           231,281
Re.payments
Cottage industry loans
SMILE                       1,914    2,286      NA       NA       NA       NA                2,901             2,244             2,063
Branches                    2,972    6,129   2,374    3,024   1,637    3,783                4,680              8,146             9,968
Small industry. loans
SMILE                       1,280   19,924      NA       NA       NA       NA              19,549             21,650            15,312
Branches                      469    5,498      663    5,304       775    6,269            24,697             23,117            12,846
Medium industry loans
SMILE                         158   11,949      NA       NA       NA       NA              14,188             22,390             9,681
Branches                       26    2,166       11       834       32    1,853              4,507             5,363             3,699
Subtotal SMILE          3,352   34,159       NA    22,178 /b  NA    23,643 /b           36,638             46,284            27,056
Subtotal Branches       3,467   13,793   2,048    9,162   2,444   11,905                33,884             36,626            26,513
Total                   6,819   47,952        NA   31,340      NA    35,548             70,522             82,910            53,569
Outstanding Loans
Cottage industry loans
SMILE                       2,155   14,596      NA       NA        NA      NA   ) 6,592 3 82,781 3 6,327   77,822   2,330   19,002
Branches                    2,829   35,175                                       )       )         )                   3,950   57,111
Small industry loans
SMILE                         695  116,896      NA       NA        NA      NA   ) 1,923  300,717 3 2,040  300,810   1,139  195,948
Branches                      430   62,870                                       )                 )                    1,373  251,196
Medium industry loans
SMILE                          88   93,618      NA       NA        NA      NA   3   172  181,282 )   193  196,361         171  167,138
Branches                       28   37,452      NA       NA        NA      NA   3                  )                       62   62,310
Subtotal SMILE          2,938  225,110   3,017  241,655   2,221  263,173   3,166  300,435   3,207  327,850   3,640  382,088
Subtotal Branches       3,287  135,497   3,294  148,256   7,264  248,576   5,521  261,647   5,353  247,143   5,385  370,617
Total                   6225   360,607   6,311  389,911   9,485  511,699   8,687  562,112   8,560  574,993   9,025  752,705
/a  Refers to I3RD-assisted small and medium loans only.
/b  Breakdown between home, small and medium not available.
AEP Projects
December 23, 1981



ANNEX 2
- 77                                   Table 3
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
DBP's 15 Most Active Branches in SMI Operations as of December 31, 1981
Arrears as
Outstanding SMI               % of out-      Staffing
loan portfolio  Principal   standing              SMI
Branch           Location      No.    Amount  affected   portfolio   Total  unit/a
(P'000)  (P'000)
Cebu             Visayas        322   50,879   17,815        11.62        72      3
Davao            Mindanao       227   22,345    7,498         11.47        41     3
Cagayan de Oro  Mindanao        308   23,827   10,588         14.64       40      3
Balanga          Luzon          215   17,079   11,336        41.23        48      3
Bacolod          Visayas        109   16,013   10,054         26.93        69     3
Baguio           Luzon          283   11,378    8,735         29.50        60     3
General Santos  Mindanao        113   10,356    7,468         24.53        69     3
Dagupan          Luzon          253   14,634    8,371         15.39       34      3
Lucena           Luzon          119   15,784    5,698          6.74       54      3
Taclobusr        Vis-as          Q'A    q.692    4,212        27.15       66      3
Zamboanga        Mindanao       132    9,751    6,700         16.94       57      3
Tarlac           Luzon          127    7,269    4,001         22.82       52      3
Legaspi          Visayas        209    6,944    3,912         17.60       41      3
Roxas            Visayas        205   11,885    5,757         13.55       53      3
Dipolog          Mindanao        90    6,852    6,640         31.68       42      3
Total 15 Branches        2,805  233,688  118,785                    778    45
/a Proposed professional staff to handle SMI operations exclusively.
AEP Projects Department
April 29, 1982



PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Characteristics of SMI Loans,/a 1976-December, 1981
(Amount in P'O0)
1976                              1977                              1978
No.      X     Amount    %        No.      %      Amount    %       No.      %      Amount      X
Total Loan Approvals
Head office                                                               333   22.0  101,373   57.0    246   16.0  100,195   57.0    N/A    -                   N/A    -
Branches                                                                1,164   78.0   76,449   43.0  1,299   84.0   75,568   43.0    N/A    -                   N/A    -
Total                                                               1,497  100.0  177,822  100.0  1,545  100.0  175,763  100.0  1,212  100.0  132,900  100.0
Regional Distribution
I Ilocos                                                                 116    8.0   15,542    9.0         95    6.0    6,822    4.0         44    4.0    2,600        2.0
II Cagayan Valley                                                          28    2.0    1,363       1.0      17    1.0    3,192    2.0         36    3.0    4,700    4.0
III Central Luzon                                                          179   12.0   17,770    9.0    182   12.0   31,661    18.0    146   12.0   16,700   13.0
IV Metro Manila                                                           130    9.0   35,513   20.0         94    6.0   11,156       4.0      77    6.0   15,100   11.(
IV-A Southern Tagalog                                                       197   13.0   47,252   27.0    128    8.0   65,032   37.0    136   11.0   53,300   40.0
V Bicol                                                                  107    7.0    5,336    3.0         74    5.0    5,128    3.0         69    6.0    2,200    2.0          1
VI Western Visayas                                                        152   10.0   16,328    9.0    181   12.0   15,469    9.0    280   23.0    6,800    9.0                 1j
VII Central Visayas                                                        149   10.0   12,131    7.0    125    8.0   14,693           8.0    101    8.0   14,500   11.0
VIII Eastern Visayas                                                          36    2.0    5,568    3.0        22    1.0    1,674        1.0      26    2.0    1,700    1.0
IX Western Mindanao                                                       116    8.0    1,635    1.0    374   24.0    6,886           1.0      37    3.0    3,500    3.0
X Northern Mindanao                                                       91    6.0    9,356    5.0         97    7.0    5,166    3.0    836    11.0    5,400    4.0
XI Southern Mindanao                                                      104    7.0    7,853    4.0         69    4.0    4,191       2.0      68    6.0    3,000        2.0
XII Central Mindanao                                                        92    6.0    2,175    2.0         87    6.0    4,693       3.0       56    5.0    3,400       2.0
Total                                                               1,497  100.0  177,822  100.0  1,545  100.0  175,763  100.0                   100.0  132,900  1OO.C
Industrial Classification
Food & beverages                                                          238   15.9   13,007    7.3    142    9.2   28,070   16.0    258   21.3   17,300   10.1
Coconut products & its preparation                                          2    0.1    3,500    1.9          2    0.1        180    0.1        -    -             -    -
Tobacco manufacture                                                         -    -            -            -   _    -           _            _               -           -
Textile, apparel, twine, cordage & other finished products                166   11.1   13,828    7.9         94    6.1   16,454       9.4    240   19.8   15,000   11.3
Lumber, wood products, fuirniture & fixtures                              117    7.8   18,115   10.2         61    3.9   15,746    9.0         95    7.8   13,400   10.1
Paper & paper products                                                      2    0.1        979    0.5        8    0.5    4,937       2.8       2    0.2    2,700    2.0
Printing, publishing & allied industries                                   38    2.5    8,154    4.6         29    1.9    4,403       2.5      22     1.8    5,100    3.4
Leather, leather products & footwear                                       28    1.9    5,208    2.9         18    1.2    8,123       4.6      33    2.7    5,700    4.3
Chemicals & chemical products                                              16    1.1   23,299   13.1         24    1.5   16,631       9.4       7    0.6    5,500    4.1
Petroleum & coal products                                                   -    -            -    -          -    -            -    -          -    -             -    -
Nonmetallic products                                                       67    4.5    8,507    4.8         88    5.7   12,819       7.3      48    4.0    7,300    3.5
Metal products                                                             51    3.4   12,583    7.1         29     1.9   14,471      8.2       14    1.2   10,400    7.8
Mechanical/electrical equipment, appliances & parts                        84    5.6   16,548    9.3         54    3.5    9,709       5.5      33    2.7   10,900    8.2
Ice plant & cold storage                                                  190   12.7   27,829   15.6         14    0.9    5,269       3.0      11    0.9      7,100      5.4
Transport equipment & repair                                                -    -            -    -        115    7.4   13,815       7.9      91    7.5   13,700   10.3
Extractive industries                                                      48    3.2   12,944    7.3         21    1.4   10,311       5.9      24    2.0   11,300    8.5
Rubber products                                                             -    -            -    -          7    0.4    2,822       1.6        3    0.2     1,700      1.2
Miscellaneous manufacturing industries                                    363   24.3   11,954    6.7    296   19.2    6,569           3.7    331   27.3       5,400    4.4
Home industries                                                            87    5.8    1,367    0.8    543   35.2          5,434    3.1      331   27.3      5,400    4.4  x
Insufficient data                                                           -    -            -    -          -    -            -    -          -    -             -    -M
Total                                                                1,497  100.0  177.822  100.0  1,545  100.0  1               100.0  1.212  100.0  132,900  100.0



1979                              1980                              1981
No.      %     Amount    1        No.      %      Amount     X      No.      X      Amount      x
Total Loan Approvals
Head office                                                               289   26.2   95,517   52.7    263   23.3   83,778   45.1   275    34.0  117,339   60.1
Branches                                                                  816   73.8   85,688   47.3    869   76.7  101,865   54.9   534    66.0   77,975   39.9
Total                                                                1,105  100.0  181,205  100.0  1,132  100.0  185,643  100.0   809    100.0  195,314  100.0
Regional Distribution
I Ilocos                                                                  86    7.8   10,628    5.9         64    5.7      5,299      2.9     20      2.3    3,694      1.7
II Cagayan Valley                                                          36    3.3    6,346    3.5         33    2.9    3,782        2.1     57      6.7   27,977    12.7
III Central Luzon                                                           62    5.6   16,086    8.9         86     7.6   21,029    11.3       96     11.3   19,696      9.0
IV Metro Manila                                                           169   15.3   54,405   30.0        110    9.7   22,837    12.3   215    25.4   76,304   34.8
IV-A Southern Tagalog                                                         86    7.8   22,609   12.5    220    19.4   61,058    32.9   113           13.4   42,060    19.2
V Bicol                                                                  160   14.5   12,235    6.8         74    6.5      3,802      2.0    27       3.2    5,293      2.4
VI Western Visayas                                                         90    8.1    6,682    3.7    134   11.8   10,382            5.6    67       7.9    9,363       4.3
VII Central Visayas                                                         147   13.3   16,601       9.2    114   10.1    17,466    9.4        47      5.6    7,748       3.5
VIII Eastern Visayas                                                          30    2.7    6,905       3.8      28    2.5    2,232       1.2    21       2.5     1,925    0.9
IX Western Mindanao                                                        44    3.9    6,448    3.5         47    4.2    6,850        3.7    65       7.7    8,433       3.8
X Nortliern Mindanao                                                      96    8.7   10,541       5.8    125   11.0   11,511         6.2    60       7.0    9,529      4.3
XI Southern Mindanao                                                        56    5.1    8,565       4.7      44     3.9   13,612      7.3     32      3.9    3,147       1.4
XII Central Mindanao                                                         43    3.9    3,154       1.7      53    4.7      5,783     3.1     26      3.1    4,345       2.0
Total                                                                1,105  100.0  181,205  100.0  1,132  100.0  185,643  100.0   846   100.0  219,514  100.0
Industrial Classification
Food & beverages                                                           158   14.3   25,107    13.8    165   14.6   26,851    14.5    136          16.0   29,326    13.4
Coconut products & its preparation                                           -    -            -    -          -    -            -    -         5      0.7     2,956      1.3
Tobacco manufacture                                                          -     -           -    -          -    -             -    -         -      -           -     -
Textile, apparel, twine, cordage & other finished products                  82    7.4   12,940    7.1         60     5.3   17,503      9.4   197      23.3   31,354    14.3
Lumber, wood products, furniture & fixtures                                 96    8.7   37,702   20.8        101    8.9   27,891    15.0   140        16.5   37,540    17.1
Paper & paper products                                                       4    0.4    2,842       1.6       3    0.3      1,558    0.9       9      1.1        971     0.4
Printing, publishing & allied industries                                    28    2.5    8,067    4.4         47    4.2    8,528       4.6     36      4.3    13,041      5.9
Leather, leather products & footwear                                         5    0.5    2,650       1.5      18    1.6    6,860       3.7     27      3.2    6,549       3.0
Chemicals & chemical products                                               11    1.0   10,720       5.9      14    1.2    9,321       5.0      4      0.5        759    0.3
Petroleum & coal products                                                    -    -            -    -          -    -            -    -         -      -            -    -
Nonmetallic products                                                        54    4.9   13,421    7.4         75    6.6    17,419      9.4    82       9.7    34,477    15.7
Metal products                                                              22    2.0   12,063    6.7         32    2.8   15,095       8.1     60       7.1    13,710     6.2
Mechanical/electrical equipment, appliances & parts                         20    1.8    7,090    3.9         18    1.6    3,447       1.8      25      2.9    5,022      2.3
Ice plant & cold storage                                                    17    1.5   13,565    7.5         15    1.3   10,207       5.5     15      1.8    9,653       4.4
Transport equipment & repair                                                89    8.0   15,181    8.4         77    6.8    9,412       5.1     30      3.5    6,701       3.1
Extractive industries                                                       14    1.3    3,343       1.8      13    1.1    3,146       1.7     13      1.5    6,271       2.9
Rubber products                                                              6    0.5    6,252    3.5          5    0.5    0,689       0.4      6      0.7    4,247       1.9
Miscellaneous manufacturing industries                                      24    2.2    5,454    3.0         34    3.0   21,995    11.3        58      6.9    14,672     6.7
Home industries                                                           475   43.0    4,808    2.7    455   40.2           6,721     3.6      -      -            -    -
Insufficient data                                                            -    -            -    -          -    -        -         -        3      0.3    2,265       1.1
Total                                                                1,105  100.0  181,205  100.0  1,132  100.0  185,643   100.0   846    100.0  219,514  100.0
rDl X
0



- 80 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Trends of Arrears of Home Industry & SMI Loans, 1976 - December 1981
(In P'GOO)
As of      As of      As of      As of      As of      As of
12/31/76  6/30177/a  12/31/78  12/31/79  12/31/80  12/31/81
Head Office
Outstanding Loans
- Amount                              222,438   241,655    263,123   300,435   327,850  382,088
- Number                                 2,920      3,017      2,221      3,166      3,207    3,640
Outstanding amount of loans
affected by arrears
- Amount                               184,264   196,689    231,051   200,374   218,557  209,083
- Number                                 2,580     2,603       2,036      2,544      2,685    2,561
Arrears (principal and interest)
- Amount                                57,901    67,762      49,486    37,385    35,697   42,711
- As % of principal outstanding           26.0       28.0       18.8      12.40      10.89    11.18
Loans affected as % of loans
outstanding
- Amount                                  82.8      81.4        87.8      66.70      66.66    54.72
- Number                                  88.4       86.3       91.7      80.35      83.72    70.35
Branches
outstanding Loans
- Amount                               135,498   148,256    248,563   237,251   247,143  370,617
- Number                                 3,287     3,294       7,264      5,521      5,353    5,385
Outstanding amount of loans
affected by arrears
- Amount                                73,598    87,139    192,445   111,372   136,234  179,967
- Number                                 2,015     2,039       5,704      2,740      3,162    4,024
Arrears (principal and interest)
- Amount                                12,112    16,181      53,993    28,249    35,646   75,328
- As % of principal outstanding            8.9       10.9       21.7      11.91      14.42    20.33
Loans affected as % of loans
outstanding
- Amount                                  54.3       58.8       77.4      46.94      55.12    48.56
- Number                                  61.3       61.9       78.5      49.63      59.07    74.73
Total
Outstanding Loans
- Amount                               357,936   389,911    530,906   564,780   574,993  752,705
- Number                                 6,207     6,311       9,485      8,687      8,560    6,585
Outstanding amount of loans
affected by arrears
- Amount                              257,862   283,828    423,496   311,746   354,791  398,050
- Number                                 4,592     4,642       7,740      5,284      5,847    6,585
Arrears (principal and interest)
- Amount                                70,013    83,943    103,479    65,634    71,343  118,039
- As % of principal outstanding           19.6       21.5       19.5      11.62      12.41    15.68
Loans affected as % of loans
outstanding
- Amount                                  72.0       72.8       79.8      55.20      61.70    52.88
- Number                                  74.0       73.6       81.6      60.83      68.31    72.96
/a  Data for December 1977 not available.
AEP Projects
February 15, 1982



- 81 -                                                           ANNEX 2
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Analysis of Home Industry & SMI Loan Portfolio as of December 31, 1981
Outstanding amount
Outstanding loans            of loans affected                                        Total arrears
Number            Amount             by arrears               Amount in arrears           of % of loan
No.      %       P'000      %        Number    Amount    Principal  Interest   Total    outstanding
(PW000)    --------- (p'000)  --------
A. Home Industry Loans
Loans repaying regularly: 1,282   20.41   22,403   29.43
Loans in arrears for:
0 - 3 months              1,033   16.45   12,715   16.71                                   720         385      1,015         7.98
3 - 6 months                479    7.63    6,220    8.17                                   627         379      1,006        16.17
6 - 12 months               654   10.41    8,561    11.23                                1,318         775      2,093        24.45
12 - 24 months               896   14.27   11,895   15.65                                2,911        1,708      4,619        38.83
More than two years        1,936   30.83   14,319   18.81                                 8,479       3,217     11,696        81.68
Subtotal                4,998   79.59   53,710   70.57                                14,055        6,464    20,519        38.20
Total                 6,280  100.00   76,113  100.00          4,998    53,710       14,055        6,464    20,519        26.96
B. Small Industry Loans
Loans repaying regularly: 1,044   41.56  241,322   53.97
Loans in arrears for:
0 - 3 months                440   17.52   58,994   13.19                                 2.054       1,457      3,511         5.95
3 - 6 months                178    7.09   22,944    5.13                                 1,523       1,360      2,883        12.57
6 - 12 months               276   10.98   36,971       8.27                             4,284        3,102      7,386        19.98
12 - 24 months               269   10.71   39,477    8.83                                7,618        6,034    13,652        34.58
More than two years          305   12.14   47,436    10.61                               16,926      22,723    39,649         83.58
Subtotal                1,468   58.44  205,822   46.03                                32,405       34,676    67,081        32.59
Total                 2,512  100.00  447,144  100.00          1,468   205,822       32,405      34,676    67,081         15.00
C. Medium Industry Loans
Loans repaying regularly:    114   48.93   99,970   43.56
Loans in arrears for:
0 - 3 months                 45   19.31   44,788   19.52                                   483       1,036      1,519         3.39
3 - 6 monthis                15    6.44   14,030    6.11                                  618          830      1,448       10.33
6 - 12 months                17    7.30   23,529   10.25                                 1,579       2,587      4,166        17.71
12 - 24 months                23    9.87   22,789    9.93                                3,707        3,535      7,242       31.78
More than two years           19    8.15   24,392   10.63                                 9,823       6,241     16,064        65.86
Subtotal                  119   51.07  129,528   56.44                                16,210      14,229    30,439         23.50
Total                   233  100.00  229,498  100.00            119   129,518       16,210      14,229    30,439         13.26
D. Total SMI Loans (B+C)
Loans repaying regularly: 1,158   42.19  341,292   50.44
Loans in arrears for:
0 - 3 months                485   17.67  103,782   15.34                                2,537        2,493      5,030        4.85
3 - 6 months                193    7.03   36,974    5.46                                2,141        2,190      4,331       11.72
6 - 12 months               293   10.67   60,500    8.94                                5,863        5,689     11,552       19.09
12 - 24 months               292   10.64   62,266    9.20                               11,325        9,569    20,894        33.56
More than two years          324   11.80   71,828   10.62                                26,749      28,964    55,713         77.56
Subtotal                1,587   57.81  335,350   49.56                                48,615      48,905    97,520         29.08
Total                 2,745  100.00  676,642  100.00          1,587   335,340       48,615      48,905    97,520         14.41
E. All Loans
SMILE                        3,640   40.30  382,088   50.80         2,561   209,083        24,362      18,349    42,711         11.20
Branches                     5,385   59.70  370,617   49.20         4,024   179,967        38,308      37,020    75,330         20.30
Total                 9,025  100.00  752,705  100.00          6,585   389.050       62,670      55,369   118,039         15.70
AEP Projects
February 15, 1982



- 82-                                                  ANNEX 3
Table I
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
List of the Private Development Banks as of December 31, 1981
Year
started                        Staffing
opera-  No. of    Managerial   Clerical/
Name of PDB                Location                  Region            tions   offices  professional   support   Total
Aklan                Kalibo, Aklan               Western Visayas       1978         1           10            4         14
Bacolod City         Bacolod City                Western Visayas       1964         2           19           10         29
Baguio-Mt. Province Baguio City                  Ilocos                1971         1           10           10         20
Banco Cebuano        Cebu City                   Central Visayas       1962         2           20            7         27
Banco Davao          Davao City                  Southern Mindanao   1965          4            32           19         51
Banco Primero        Cebu City                   Cental Visayas        1963         1           33            6         39
Bangko Araw-Araw    Cavite City                  Southern Tagalog    1963          8            69           68        137
Bangko Makati        Makati, Metro Manila        Metro Manila          1980         2           30            7         37
Bangko Silangan      Batangas City               Southern Tagalog    1966          5            14            9         23
Bataan               Balanga, Bataan             Central Luzon         1974         5           16            7         23
Batangas             Balayan, Batangas           Southern Tagalog    1961           1            8            3         11
Bicol                Legaspi City                Bicol                 1971         2            8            3         11
Cabanatuan City      Cabanatuan City             Central Luzon         1961         1           10            4         14
Capital City         Quezon City                Metro Manila           1963         7           23           67         90
Country              Olongapo City               Central Luzon         1968        4            22           18         40
Danao City           Danao City                  Central Visayas       1967         1           10            2         12
Dev. Bank of Rizal  Caloocan City               14etro Manila          1961         9           66           23         89
Dumaguete City       Dumaguete City              Central Visayas       1980         1            6            2          8
First Malayan        Calapan, Or. Mindoro        Southern Tagalog    1974          9            33           17         50
Ilocos Sur           Vigas, Ilocos Sur           Ilocos               1969          1            9            3         12
Iloilo City          Iloilo City                Western Visayas       1962          1            9            8         17
Island.              Tacloban City              Eastern Visayas        1979         1            9            4         13
La Union             San Fernando, La Union   Ilocos                   1965         1            9            3         12
Lipa City            lipa City                   Southern Tagalog    1959           3          26            12         38
Luzon                Calamba, Laguna             Southern Tagalog    1961         11           92            33        125
Midland              Makati, Metro Manila        Metro Manila          1961         2           28            9         37
Naga Regional        Naga City                   Bicol                 1980         1           10            7         17
Pangasinan           Dagupan City                Ilocos                1968        2            14            4         18
Peninsula            Atimonan, Quezon            Southern Tagalog    1978          5           51            19        70
Peoples              Bacoor, Cavite              Southern Tagalog    1979           5          43            12        55
PISO                 Makati, Metro Manila       Metro Manila           1981        8           132           67       199
Planters             Makati, Metro Manila       Metro Manila           1961       17          129           120       249
Premiere             Pasay City                 Metro Manila           1960        8            55           26        81
Queen City           Iloilo City                Western Visayas        1980         1           10            3         13
Quezon               Lucena City                 Southern Tagalog    1961          9            98           23        121
Quezon City          Quezon City                Metro Manila           1960         5           38           12         50
San Pablo City       San Pablo City              Southern Tagalog    1962          2            6             5         11
Second Bulacan       Meycauayan, Bulacan         Southern Tagalog    1963          8            60           45        105
Second Laguna        Binan, Laguna               Southern Tagalog    1963          7           65            37       102
Second Pampanga      San Fernando, Pampanga   Central Luzon           1961         2            10            7         17
Southern Negros      Binalbagan, Negros Occ.  Western Vlisayas         1977        2            13            5         18
Tagaytay City        Tagaytay City               Southern Tagalog    1980          4            13            5         18
Tarlac               Tarlac, Tarlac              Central Luzon         1962         1            7            5         12
Urban                Pasig, Metro Manila        Metro Manila           1980        3            11           57        68
Total           44 PDBs                                                     176        1,386          817      2,203
AEP Projects Department
February 15, 1982



- 83 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Total Outstanding Loans Granted by
the Private Development Banks as of December 31, 1981
(P'000)
Items in      Total    Allowance         Net
Agri-   Indus-    Real   Miscel-                    Past    liti-    loans out-  for proba-  loans out-
Name of PDB               cultural  trial    estate  laneous    Total            due      gation    standing   ble losses   standing
Aklan                        7,043    2,572        494        53      10,162       888    2,127         13,177           -         13,177
Bacolod City                13,792    2,802    2,260         619      19,473     1,729        314       21,516         (31)       21,485
Baguio-Mt. Province            642       334       626       369       1,971    3,613         351        5,935            -         5,935
Banco Cebuano                  715    4,245    2,213         794       7,967     1,007     1,277        10,251        (432)        9,819
Banco Davao                  8,265    5,463        916    7,533       22,177       991        259       23,427         (84)       23,343
Banco Primero                6,164   17,964          -    6,303       30,431    2,211         257       32,899        (758)       32,141
Banco Araw-Araw              8,910   32,346   12,184    3,363         56,803   11,416      1,289        69,508         (53)       69,455
Bangko Makati                5,614   11,117        779   15,630       33,140          -         -       33,140           -        33,140
Bangko Silangan              6,262    2,991    2,794    2,203         14,250       860       261        15,371          (2)       15,369
Bataan                       5,068    2,447    1,514    3,568         12,597       707        145       13,449         (32)        13,417
Batangas                     1,946       147    1,049          6       3,148    1,035           -        4,183           -         4,183
Bicol                        3,494    2,077      1,861       117       7,549    2,318        400        10,267         (26)       10,241
Cabanatuan City              1,488       116       379       366       2,349       512         33        2,894           -         2,894
Capitol City                 4,228   13,442    8,889    2,046         28,605    9,731         592       38,928         (86)       38,842
Country                      2,010    2,871    8,071    4,766         17,718    2,677         776       21,171         (78)       21,093
Danao City                   2,107    2,346        305    1,570        6,328    2,127      2,271        10,627        (140)       10,586
0ev. Bank of Rizal          10,830   28,713          -        19      39,562    2,402         150      42,114            -        42,114
Dumaguete City               1,692     1,763     1,799       390       5,644        86          -        5,730           -         5,730
First Malayan               12,272    2,285        129       670      15,356    2,048           -       17,404           -        17,404
Ilocos Sur                   4,034    1,106    1,535          70       6,745         -         63        6,808         (27)        6,781
Iloilo City                 17,152    1,187          -    7,002       25,341     4,321       176       29,838         (238)       29,600
Island                         737    1,634        529        73       2,973       936       777        4,686            -         4,686
La Union                     1,632    1,678        807       106       4,223    1,015           7        5,245           -         5,245
Lipa City                   12,012     1,709    1,835    3,960        19,516    2,195        231        21,942          (2)       21,940
Luzon                       23,800   19,143   14,308    2,561         59,812    3,130    1,234         64,176          (75)       64,101
Midland                      1,398    4,796        448    3,450       10,092    6,454          21       16,567        (637)        15,930
Naga Regional                3,658    1,160    3,658         719       9,195       229       317         9,741          (2)        9,737
Pangasinan                   7,767     1,360       394       485      10,006    1,482         149       11,637          (1)       11,636
Peninsula                    8,037   15,409    3,626    5,732         32,804       115       270       33,189          (15)       33,174
Peoples                      8,906   21,390    9,315    3,181         42,792    1,750         42       44,584         (150)       44,434
PISO                         7,268  245,957    3,546   33,394    290,165    1,833          1,049      293,047    (11,187)        281,805
Planters                    63,688   50,582   21,638   91,934    227,842   16,871    4,005            248,718       (1,758)      246,960
Premiere                    22,775   14,027    7,519         468      44,789    2,825    1,172         48,786            -        48,786
Queen City                   1,511       670       334    1,100        3,615         -         -         3,615           -         3,615
Quezon                      13,719   24,472   10,519    2,715         51,425    5,188        408       57,021         (116)       56,905
Quezon City                  3,922   12,843    6,403    3,007         26,175    1,338    1,125         28,638           (3)       28,635
San Pablo City               3,318       460       918       123       4,819       771       201        5,791          (19)        5,772
Second Bulacan               7,396   40,461          -    4,300       52,157   17,723         76       69,956            -        69,956
Second Laguna               14,241   26,096   15,363   15,399         71,099   12,182        772       84,053          (47)       84,006
Second Pampanga              6,689    7,253    4,906         703      19,551    2,658        826       23,035          (47)       22,988
Southern Negros             11,438    6,467      1,017    2,621       21,543       391       318       22,252         (150)       22,102
Tagaytay City                6,053       147       898        71       7,169       847          -        8,016         (84)        7,932
Tarlac                       1,219    2,715          -    3,648        7,582       272        14        7,868            -         7,868
Urban                       29,213    7,203    2,425  101,672    140,513           390          -     140,903            -       140,903
Total                384,125  645,966  158,203  338,879  1,527,173  131,274   23,755   1,682,202             (16,280)   1,665,922
Note:  The Monetary Board ordered the closure of the Agro-Industrial Development Bank effective July 27, 1981.  It is now on
receivership.
AEP Projects Department
April 29, 1982



- 84-                                                88111813
Toblo 3
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0fooNeos    rr ZwNC=DOXO_ZV HOr    r_NI>b
<    NR   4E        0000.10.0000000 0.-..ooo.-.Ooo                               ao-
looo-o 0.0.0 ..ODONS=So:soeo...Oo.o 00000Iosene o.000
00o         o0..oO00.     OO-Z<<-oCO=.oOO   X001o00                     OlI00   0010
CO                                               N                                                      01E D_X_O>_rvv  v4f 
00 0;                                                     0  0                       0                oN<Vere<              
0    00       lO lol 3010 13 0o100000000000000vR  S0000R     oo000001000oO a#  0001
.10          0      0  0          000 ;0.00 _0;00                     0000        0000. 0Q  OOjvrm "
__ I _   _r= ICO  _  C O5   000    I F4 0    00   0c 00   00000.0  I00  00 .   0I0-   O
,00     0Co    < -    OQ>    .O>>    o_N>N                                     @ 
0   0                                                                                         01                 ^<CN-V            
00ool.o.ooo                              oo=oOlool0000l                                  
..oE Oo0.N oo  goO| oo ooooo.oo    oo.0o boo  oOotoO   0.000000   0    0j
-         o     cq-O                eN -      '.    -                                   .0 
..           0 llIlIllIlll lIlIl0l I1 rIo 
- 00  =0 0000-000 0001000   0000010000001.0
'I000PK     00o0I0I    V    0O0_0I  I  I I I Vo  >  I  o  O Oo-0    0O00                         0  I0   
0-0             '010000000 IocO_oOo                                          00000,
I 00    0      9=cS--  _C _C,  _1  1cR c  50 0 00  000000  300000   00  00  00
I00                0 o0   0 _0   00 00o0 0 0 0                              00 r,   000    0              ,r           ,cer                  
0 :                      0f                     0  0          0l C0 05    0000 _-  l5a l@5__N <_>:  l                _O V
ol  ~         0000000000000.OOloo.oo     10    -  
59  C X     o KX    IIIIOICI 00.100.  Io-o.o-.~     I  ooooo=oo.o   0.    00.0000000cs cc 
O                00 00.             0000000 c  E S    R05o8 R5 c-R        0eo0   08   0000 0s            5 0e
 0    0  0                    C             0         0  0 ; ;           0-   000   0        ;     0v J a{a~ tt s 
o3.    c1   llI,lllll_l_I.0,lIl0    5O   _ll                                  oIoOOO.-i ii
e  _c  r5 C<  _ a  5rlf  sc r,.,N   vw0,  oc -c cg.a co s CO  <   5    C  I5 >I So fx  g  |avf5>r-501 
z         P  _131l131310313030031101.003000 00100100l0000l0
000 01                    0  0f  00   0000000000                          00   00   00. 0N1
*  c0                                                                                                   11  >_^s^8 h}<v    s^|>e   
; 0                     0   0  1   1  00    1  0   0   0  1   01   0   0  0      0   I0.0     0   0   0    
0- ~   ~      D   Ef 000  0_1I11I00.l _1010-0-I1110010o00001                                                    f
0 ~    ~~~~~ =0    0D  r 0                                 00 =0   00 ,01_<C
_00      S=s5r 000100      1        0     0     0     0     0     .      0     0     01e             _Z^c    g          o_s o^4   
00                            00000l0l0    110110010000000l:0l0IA oue; 
000 =      00 =00..00                            0     00      0    00      .     0 o    o_       ,_    
-   _0000   0000   EsFst          CJsr100050   1001001 1  10010             00   101   0           
00    *  0O         ,     0g 0"0 =a             00              00   00,o    0            0f>e   l _
-  o0    0I.00   o000000   = y0010000S1o1.10__1000000  110    0                    
0    2             :                                    00         0                            00              =-~x-J-=zfiXfiff;OOOX-=     



PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Important Features of Selected Private Development Banks
as of December 31, 1981
(P million)
Arrears /b
Total loans      Industrial loans
Outstanding loans           As % of total      As x of indus-            Net
Year of   No. of       Staff        Total              Indus-                outstanding         trial loans  Total   income
Name of PDB        Location/region      operation  offices  Prof.  Total   assets    Total    trial   %          Amt.     loans      Amt. outstanding equity  for 1981
Capitol City    Quezon City/
Metro Manila             1963        7       23      90      63.06    38.93   13.44  34.5   6.15    15.8          2.73      20.3      10.08      1.34
Cavite           Cavite City/
Southern Tagalog        1963         7       70     133    110.77    66.93   29.58  44.2  16.88    25.2           8.76      29.6       7.81     0.44
Davao City       Davao City/
Southern Mindanao       1965         4       36      55      31.54    19.28    4.45  23.1   5.46    28.2          0.51      11.5      6.41      0.76
Development      Caloocan City/
Bank of Rizal   Metro Manila             1961         9       66      89      72.50    42.11   28.71  68.2   4.34    10.3          3.07      10.7      10.42      0.85  1
Lipa City /a    Lipa City/
Southern Tagalog        1959         3       26      38      27.99    21.94    1.71   7.8   5.97    27.2          0.26      15.2       8.23     0.16  co
Luzon            Calamba/
Southern Tagalog        1961        11       92     125      97.69    64.18   19.14  29.8   7.37    11.5          2.11      11.0      11.87      2.30
Peninsula       Lucena City/
Southern Tagalog        1978         5       51      70      48.94    33.19   15.41  46.4   - /c        - /c      - /c      - /c    10.40       0.23
Peoples          Bacoor/
Southern Tagalog        1979         5      43       55    102.18    44.58   21.39  48.0   2.04         4.6       0.78       3.6       9.13      2.31
Planters /a     Makati/
Metro Manila             1961       17      129     249    350.21   248.72   50.58  20.3  23.88         9.6       4.41       8.7      37.80      7.63
Premiere         Pasay City/
Metro Manila             1960        8       55      81      64.35    48.79   14.03  28.8   4.26        8.7       1.57      11.2      20.49      2.99
Quezon la        Lucena City/
Southern Tagalog        1961         9      98      121      79.89    57.02   24.47  42.9   8.11       14.2       4.22      17.2      11.19      0.16
Second Bulacan  Meycauayan, Bulacan/
Southerni Tagalog       1963         8      60      105    111.00    69.96   40.46  57.8   - /c         - /c      - /c       - /c      9.65      0.73
Second Laguna   Biran, Laguna/
Southern Tagalog        1963         7       65     102    116.06    84.05   20.10  23.9  16.26        19.3       7.29      36.2       9.11      1.31
Southern         Binalbayan/Western
Negros /a        Visayas                  1977        2       13       18     26.17    22.25    6.47  29.1   0.72        3.2       0.10       1.5       5.11      0.81
Urban            Pasig/
Metro Manila            1980         3       11      68    310.50   140.90    7.20   5.1   - /c         - /c      - /c       - /c    28.67       4.67
Total      15 PDBs                               105     838   1,399  1,612.85 1,002.83  297.14  29.6 101.44    13.4           35.81      15.3    196.37    26.69
Ia Currently accredited under IBRD/IGLF program.
/b Arrears of more than 90 days.
/c Latest data not available.
AEP Projects Department
December 5, 1981



ANNEX 3
-  86                                                                  c-1
PHI LIPPINES
THIRD SMI DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF DEVELOPMENT AND RURAL BANKS
PROPOSED FUNCTIONAL ORGANIZATION
|   DDRB          l
Manager
Assistant Manae
Coordinate vvith                     
Central Bank, PD                        Adiitaiv   sitn
Auditor
Investment and                   Management                     Institutional                and Administrative
Rediscounting Unit                 Services Unit                 Evaluation Unit                      Unit
-  Process rediscount opera-   Management Assistance Division   -  Institutional evaluation      Financial Supervision
tions from PDB and Rural    -  Provide management assistance    of PD8s with emphasis on      Division
Banks                          to PDBs and prepare them to      overall evaluation rather     -  Provess-release of DBP
qualify for accreditation        on accounts and projects        equity investments and
-  Conduct desk review of                                          verifications                    rediscounts to PDBs and
project appraisal re-       -  Supervise the implementation                                      Rural Banks
ports from accredited          of plans and programs to      -  Review and evaluation of
PDBs                           assisted PDBs/Rural Banks        PDB/Rural Banks perform-    -  Handle collection and
ance in relation to set         accounting functions
-  Evalute applications        -  Help identify the training       targets
for equity investment          needs of PDBs/DDRB                                             -  Monitor movements of
from PDBs                                                    -  Accreditation of PDBs            rediscounts and equity
-  Promote the establishment        to IBRD program and             investments in PDB/Rural
of PDBs in areas identified     the continuing review            Banks
by research and planning         thereof
Administrative Division
Research and Planning Division   -  Provide on the spot          -  Typing work
-  Conduct environmental            technical assistance         -  Files and records manage-
appraisal                       to PDB/Rural Banks               ment
-  Provide management informa-
tion service
- Undertake long-range plan-
ning for DDRB andPDB
system
- Conduct research
World Bank - 23785



- 87 -
ANNEX 4
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Development Banking Institute: 1982 Training Schedule
Participant
Course                              Clientele        Duration      per course    Frequency       Timings
1. Project Evaluation and Supervision Course /a   PDB                 4-5 weeks       35              2        February, July
2. Institutional Evaluation/Supervision Course /b DDRB, IGLF          4-5 weeks
(Development Banking)                                                              12-15           2        April, August
3. Training for Trainers                             DBP H.O.         8 days
Resource                         10              3        March, June,
Persons                                                   August
4. Systems Action Planning Workshop                  DDRB, SMILE,    3 days
IPD I                            15              2        March, August
5. Workshop for PDB Executives                       PDB              1 day
30              3        March, July,
October
6. Project Evaluation and Supervision Course /a   H.O. and            5-6 weeks
Branches                         35              4        February, May,
August, October
7. Seminar on Animal Systems & Enterprises           ALD & ASD        5 days
Agri.                            30              2        April, June
8. Seminar on Crop Systems 6 Enterprises             ALD, ASD,        5 days
Branch                           30              2        April, June
9. Seminar on Technical Report Writing               SMILE, DDRB,    5 days
others                           12-15           2        May, November
10. Managemeht Information System                     DDRB, SMILE      5 days
10-12           2        May, November
11. Seminar on Livestock Production & Mktg.           ALD, ASD,        10 days
Branch                           30              2        August, September
12. Seminar on Crop Production and Mktg.              ALD, ASD         10 days
Agri.                            30              2        August, September
13. Seminar/Workshop on Branch Planning               DBP Branches    6 days           20              1        October
14. ADFIAP Course on the Promotion and                DFI Officers,   1 month          25              1        November
Financing of Small-Scale Enterprises              Asia & Pacific
Regions (Int.)
Total 14 Courses
/a  In addition, during 1982' four courses on Project Evaluation and Supervision will be offered by HP-ISSI for the staff
of SMILE (25), DDRB (15), PDB (40) and Branches (60).
/b  During 1982, these two courses will be conducted by the University of the Philippines.
AEP Projects Department
February 15, 1982



- 88 -                       ANNEX 5
Attachment 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Draft IGLF Lending Strategy for 1982-1986
Objectives
1.        In line with the policy of the Philippine Government to encourage
and promote the development and expansion of small- and medium-scale indus-
tries, the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF) Program will continue to
encourage, promote and assist in the establishment of such economically sound
industries. Thus, the IGLF Program assumes a major responsibility in SMI
deveiopment through its financial assistance program in the form of loans and
guarzmtees made through accredited financial intermediaries.
Lending Program
2.        The purpose of the program is to help in the achievement of the
development objectives of the government such as:
- promotion of employment opportunities
- promotion of export-oriented SMIs
- promotion of labor-intensive industries
- regional dispersion of industries
- utilization of indigenous raw materials
- attainment of self-reliance in the supply of important
commodities.
To accomplish these objectives, IGLF financing may be utilized to finance the
working capital and fixed assets of small and medium enterprises.
3.        Through the years, cottage, small and medium industries have been
differently classified by the various government institutions dealing with
their promotion. Thus, a common definition of CSMI was deemed necessary. For
financing purposes, it has been agreed between the Ministry of Trade and
Industry, IGLF and the Development Bank of the Philippines to define CSMI
according to an enterprise's total assets before availing of financing. Due
to the sharp increase in capital and production costs and the rapid increase
in price indexes for capital goods, the cutoff points, in terms of total
assets before financing, have been increased to P 250,000 for cottage
industries, P 2.5 million for small industries, and P 10 million for
medium industries.



- 89 -                       ANNEX 5
Attachment 1
Page 2
4.        Cottage, small and medium industries as defined shall be eligible
for IGLF assistance. In accordance with the definition, the CB-IGLF loan
ceiling will be P 170,000 for cottage industries, P 1.7 million for small
industries, and P 5.0 million for medium industries.
5.        The increased ceiling for IGLF loans is in recognition of the need
to sustain economic growth of SMIs and therefore the assurance of financial
and operating stability during this cycle of enterprise development.
6.        Corollary to the redefinition of CSMI and increase in the loan
ceilings, there is also the need for IGLF to align its existing interest rates
with the prevailing market rates.
7.        On the basis of current market rates, the participating financial
institutions will charge a maximum interest rate of 18% p.a. for cottage and
small industry borrowers and 21% p.a. for medium industry borrowers. The
participating financial institutions would be allowed maximum spreads of 7%
and 5% for cottage and small industry loans, and medium industry loans,
respectively. If the participating financial institutions decide to charge
less than the maximum interest rates of 18% and 21%, their spreads will be
correspondingly decreased. The appropriateness of the interest rates to be
charged to the end-user will be kept under periodic review.
Guarantee Scheme
8.        IGLF offers two types of guarantee schemes which can be availed of
at the option of the financing institution, namely: collateral-short
guarantee and credit-risk guarantee. The collateral-short guarantee is for
small loans and covers the actual collateral deficiency up to an amount
equivalent to 25 per cent of the loan. The guaranteed amount is fixed and
absolute, to cover first losses to the extent of the guarantee or the loan
outstanding, whichever is lower. The credit risk guarantee is available for
both small and medium loans, to the extent requested by the financial
institution. It covers a fixed percentage of the loan amount outstanding, not
to exceed 60 per cent for small loans, and 40% for medium loans. The guaran-
tee fee is 2% p.a. of the guaranteed portion. In the case of collateral short
guarantee, this fee may be passed on to the borrower. For credit risk
guarantee, this fee is absorbed by the financial institution.
Accreditation Scheme
9.        The accreditation scheme will continue to be the main instrument to
ensure accessibility to IGLF-s lending facility. IGLF will use accedited
financial institutions as conduits to channel its funds to endusers. IGLF
will encourage accredited institutions to play a more active and positive
role in the promotion and development of SMI and to acquire and maintain a
pool of competent staff so as to enhance their institutional capability in SMI
lending.



- 90 -
ANNEX 5
Attachment 1
Page 3
10        Only commercial banks, nonbank financial intermediaries performing
quasi-banking functions, and leasing companies can be accredited under the
IGLF Program. A financing institution desiring to participate under the
program must first be accredited by CB-IGLF before it can use the facility.
The acceditation criteria must be met by the institution at all times to
maintain its accreditation in good standing.
11.       CB-IGLF, however, will undertake a review of the performance of each
accredited institution at least once within a 12-month period to ensure that
the criteria are met. The performance review will have the following
objectives.
- To identify the strength and weaknesses of these institutions
relative to their IGLF operations;
- To recommend measures to be adopted by the accredited
institutions to achieve the desired improvement of
peforamance;
- To study/assess the quality of appraisals on projects
sponsored by the accredited institutions for which
requests for release of funds have been made; and
- to undertake random end-use verification of projects
to determine whether projections have been attained in
accordance with representations, i.e., employment generated,
economic rates of return, etc., and whether appropriate docu-
mentation exists to certify that the proceeds of IGLF loans
have gone for the purposes intended.
12.       CB-IGLF will cancel from the list of accredited financing insti-
tutions those that have been inactive under the program. IGLF will maintain a
small core of selected financing institutions that have been accredited and
are active. Quality and not the number of accredited institutions will be
emphasized.
13.       Under the accreditation scheme, judgement on the feasibility of a
project, or the satisfactory performance of an existing enterprise availing of
a loan, is a function of the accredited institution.
Arrears
14.       IGLF will undertake, in collaboration with the financing insti-
tutions concerned, a project-by-project review (projects in arrears for
more than one year) with the view of coming up with a realistic approach to
the arrears problem by recommending rescheduling/restructuring or forclosure
of the accounts in arrears.



- 91 -
ANNEX 5
Attachment 1
Page 4
Training of Staff of Accredited Institutions
15.       IGLF will undertake a training program to upgrade the quality of
the staff of accredited institutions involved in project evaluation and
supervision. The training courses would be conducted by any relevant agency.
The training program will be conducted as the need for it arises.
IGLF Organization
16.       To meet the requirements of the expanded IGLF Program, the IGLF Unit
will be organized as follows:
(i) IGLF Examination Division
(ii) Projects Division (formerly Industrial Loan Division)
(iii) Accounting, Securities Control and Collection Division
(iv) IGLF Staff for Technical and Special Studies
17.       Corollary to the reorganization and staffing of the IGLF Unit, the
IGLF staff will undergo training in institutional appraisal such training
being crucial to the in-depth performance review of the participating
financial institutions under the program. Other training requirements (i.e.
project evaluation, supervision) would be provided by CB Training Institute,
or outside training agencies if deemed necessary.



- 92 -
ANNEX 5
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Accredited Commercial Banks, Nonbank Financial Intermediaries
and Development Banks, as of December 31, 1981
Date      Outstanding IGLF loans
accredited as of December 31, 1981
(P million) ----
Commercial Banks
Philippines Bank of Communications              09/17/76                -
Rizal Commercial Banking Corporation           09/27/76                2.6
Far East Bank & Trust Company                   12/14/76               1.6
Bank of the Philippines Islands                02/17/77                2.3
The Consolidated Bank & Trust Company          03/09/77                 1.6
Allied Banking Corporation                     09/09/77               29.6
Pacific Banking Corporation                    09/13/77               20.2
Producers Bank of the Philippines              05/15/78                 1.2
Insular Bank of Asia & America                 07/14/78               14.8
Prudential Bank & Trust Company                11/02/79                0.5
China Banking Corporation                      03/18/80                2.0
Republic Planters Bank                         05/23/80                8.8
Bank of America NT & SA                        08/22/80                1.5
Land Bank of the Philippines                    06/30/81               -
Subtotal                                                           86.6
Nonbank Financial Intermediaries
Private Development Corporation
of the Philippines                           09/17/76               92.4
Multinational Investment Bank Corporation   09/17/76                   -
Ayala Investment & Development Corporation  11/04/76                   4.8
Philippines Investment Systems Organization 01/26/77                  31.0
State Investment House, Inc.                   04/11/77               20.7
First Metro Investment Corporation             05/30/77                -
Filinvest Credit Corporation                   08/03/77                -
Manphil Investment Corporation                 04/04/78              120.3
Philippines American Investment Corporation 01/22/80                   3.1
AEA Development Corporation                    02/18/80                7.3
Paramount Finance Corporation                  11/20/80                -
BA Finance Corporation                         12/03/81                -
Subtotal                                                          279.6
Development Banks
Quezon Development Bank                        07/12/78                9.7
Southern Negros Development Bank               09/11/79                1.2
Lipa City Development Bank                      10/12/80               -
Planters Development Bank                      02/28/81                0.3
Subtotal                                                           11.2
Savings and Mortgage Banks
First Summa Savings & Mortgage Bank            07/10/80               17.2
Union Savings & Mortgage Bank                  07/22/80                0.8
Subtotal                                                           18.0
GRAND TOTAL                                                       395.4
AEP Projects Department
February 15, 1982



PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Summary of Operations,/a 1976-December 30, 1981
(P'000)
1976            1977           1978            1979             1980             1981
No.   Amount   No.   Amount  No.   Amount   No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount
Loans approved /b    130   29,220    71   20,332  140   46,989   147   59,908    170  147,165    222  234.440
Loans released        148   26,868   108   21,702    -   43,779   325   59,404    242  133,112    370  219,309
Loans repaid to IGLF 956   18,937 1,069   18,887    -   19,684 1,551   21,205  2,523   39,549  2,888   49,277
Loans outstanding    679   87,051   734   89,866  850  113,961   962  152,159    793  245,723    750  415,755
/a  IGLF provides loans in the form of Standard Time Deposits (STD).  STD approved between June 30, 1975 to
November 1979 were combined with a 60% automatic guarantee.
/b                                                  STD approved       No. of STD
1952 (first year) - June 1974             148.8 million           251
July 1974          - June 1975             56.7 million            349
July 1975          - December 1975         19.0 million             91
1952-March 1981 (cumulative total)       572.7 million          1,390
a, z
t' mn



PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Summary of Operations, July 1, 1976-December 31, 1981
(P'000)
_____ _____       -----        CY 76                                                              C ____________------  Y 77    - - --- -- ---
Cottage industry /a    Small industry /b              Total            Cottage industry /a    Small industry /b                Total
No.  Amount    %        No.  Amount    %        No.  Amount    %       No.  Amount    %         No.  Amount    %        No.  Amount    %
Loans Approved /d
Commercial banks         2       90   13.2       43  15,497   54.3    45  15,587   53.4          -        -    -         19   7,741   38.1       19   7,741   38.1
NBFI /e                  -        -    -          2      400    1.4      2      400    1.4       -        -    -         25   7,485   36.9    25   7,485   36.8
PDBs lf                  2      100   14.6       18   4,880   17.1    20   4,980   17.0                   -    -          7   2,195   10.8        7   2,195   10.8
Rural banks             10      143   64.9       45   6,050   21.2    55   6,493   22.2          ]       45  100.0       13   1,290    6.4       14   1,335    6.6
Other irnstitultions     1       50    7.3        7   1,710    6.0       8   1,760    6.0        -        -    -          6   1,576    7.8        6   1,576      7.7
Total              15      683  100.0    115  28,537  100.0   130  29,220  100.0            1      45  100.0       70  20,287  100.0    71  20,332  100.0
Loans Released
Commaercial banks        -        -    -         42  13,981   53.2    42  13,981   53.2          -        -    -         30   9,166   42.4       30   9,166   42.2
NBFI                     -        -    -          2      200    0.7      2      200    0.8       -        -    -         42   6,022   27.9    42   6,022   27.8
PDBs                      3     110   18.8       21   4,302   16.4    24   4,412   16.4          -        -    -         10   3,335   15.4    10   3,335   15.4
Rural banks              9      425   72.6       64   6,310   24.0    73   6,735   25.1          2       75  100.0       19   1,928    8.9    21   2,003    9.2
Other institutions       1       50    8.6        6   1,490    5.7       7   1,540    5.7        -        -    -          5   1,176    5.4        5   1,176    5.4
Total              13      585  100.0    135  26,283  100.0   148  26,868  100.0           2       75  100.0    106  21,627  100.0   108  21,702  100.0
Loans Repaid to IGLF
Commercial banks         4       24    2.6    290  12,820   71.1   294  12,844   67.8            3        8    1.1    308  11,828   65,2   311  11,836   62.7
NBFI                     -        -    -          -        -    -        -        -    -         -        -    -         41      156    0.8    41        156    0.8
PDBs                    24       96   10.6       65   1,066    5.9    89   1,162    6.2          5       20    2.7      105   1,371      7.6   110   1,391    7.4
Rural banks            208      783   86.0    352   3,916   21.7   560   4,699   24.8   176             707   93.7     412   4,379   24.1   588   5,086   26.9
Other institutions       1        7    0.8       12      225    1.3    13       232    1.2       1        7    0.9       18      411    2.3      19      418    2.2
Total            237      910  1(0.0    719  18,027  100.0   956  18,937  100.0   185             742  100.0    884  18,145  100.0 1,069  18,887  100.0
Loans Outstanding
Commercial banks         6      142    3.1    160  46,113   55.9   166  46,275   53.2            -        -   48.5     174  43,605   50.6    174  43,605   48.5
NBFI                     -        -    -          2      200    0.2      2      200    0.2       -        -    6.8       40   6,066      7.0    40   6,066    6.8
PDBs                    31   1,078   23.8        56   9,890   12.0    87  10,968   12.6    31   1,058   14.4             63  11,854   13.8    94  12,912    14.4
Rural banks            145   3,273   72.2    265  23,203   28.1   410  26,476   30.4   132   1,641   26.0    275  20,752   24.1   407  23,393   26.0
Other institutions       1       43    0.9       13   3,089    3.8    14   3,132    3.6          1       36    4a3       18   3,854    4.5       19   3,890    4.3
Total             183   4,536  100.0    496  82,515  100.0   679  87,051  100.0   164   3,735  100.0    570  86,131  100.0   734  89,866  100.0
t- a-



----------           -         CY 78      CY 79
Cottage industry /a    Small industry /b              Total            Cottage industry /a        Small industry /b            Total
No.  Amount    %        No.  Amount    %        No.  Amount    %       No.  Amount    %         No.  Amount    %        No.  Amount    %
Loans Approved /d
Commercial banks         -        -    -         30  12,540   26.7    30  12,540   26.7          -        -              23  11,200    18.7    23  11,200    18.7
NBFI /e                   -       -    -         73  25,476   54.3    71  25,476   54.2          1       50  100.0       99  42,300   70.8   101  42,350    70.7
PDBs If                   -      40   57 1       14   4,885    10.4    15   4,885    10.5        -        -    -         13   5,050    8.4       13   5,050    8.4
Rural banks               1      30   42.9       15   1,553    3.3    16   1,553        3.4      -        -    -         10   1,200      1.9    10   1,200    2.0
Other institutions        I       -    -          8   2,465      5.3      8   2,465     5.2      -        -    -           1     108    0.2        1     108    0.2
Total               2       70  100.0    138  46,989  100.0   140  46,989  100.0            1       50  100.0    146  59,858  100.0   147  59,908  100.0
Loans Released
Commercial banks         -        -    -          -  11,420   26.2        -  11,420   26.1       -        -    -         42  12,435   20.9    42  12,435   20.9
NBFI                     -        -    -          -  23,571   54.0        -  23,571   53.9       -        -    -        162  40,066   67.5   162  40,066   67.5
PDBs                      -       -    -          -   4,205    9.6        -   4,205    9.6       -        -    -        104   5,525    9.3   104   5,525         9.3
Rural banks               -     130  100.0        -   1,938      4.1      -   1,938    4.4       -        -    -         16   1,270      2.1    16   1,270       2.1
Other institutions       -        -    -          -   2,645      6.1      -   2,645     6.0      -        -    -          1      108    0.2       1      108    0.2
Total               -      130  100.0       -  43,779  100.0        -  43,779  100.0        -        -  100.0    325  59,404  100.0   325  59,404  100.0
Loans Repaid to IGLF
Commercial banks         -        -    -          -  10,997   57.6       -  10,997    55.9       -        -    -        362   9,929   47.9   362   9,929   46.8
NBFI                     -        -    -          -   1,204    6.3        -   1,204     6.1      -        -    -        488   3,987    19.3   488   3,987    18.8
PDBs                      -      60   10.0        -   1,668    8.4        -   1,668    8.5    18        134   26.9    163   1,866    9.0   181   2,000           9.4
Rural banks               -     538   90.0        -   4,793   22.3        -   4,793   24.3   152        364   73.1    331   4,277    20.7   483   4,641   21.9
Other institutions       -        7    -          -   1,022      5.4      -   1,022    5.2       -        -    -         37      648    3.1    37        648    3.1
Total               -      598  100.0        -  19,684  100.0       -  19,684  100.0   170         498  100.0  1,381  20,707  100.0 1,551  21,205  100.0
Loans Outstanding
Commercial banks         -        -    -        198  44,049    39.8   198  44,049   38.6         -        -    -        212  46,588    31.2   212  46,599    30.6
NBFI                     -        -    -        119  28,444   25.7   119  28,444   25.0          -      864    -        226  64,503   43.2   226  64,503   42.4
PDBs                    31   1,998   29.4        72  14,138    12.8   103  15,136    13.3    26   2,000   29.8           88  18,636    11.9   114  18,636    12.2
Rural banks            132   2,264   69.6    271  17,974    16.3   403  20,338    17.8   124            132   69.0    256  16,975    10.0   380  16,975    11.1
Other institutions        1      36    1.0       26   5,958      5.4    27   5,994      5.3      2       36     1.2      28   5,457      3.7    30   5,457        3.7
Total             164   3,398  100.0    686 110,563  100.0   850 113,961  100.0   152   2,900  100.0    810 152,159  100.0   962 152,159  100.0
VQ t 4
a 9 M
m x



CY80                                                                                                    0Y8 I
Cottage industry /a        Small industry lb        Medium industry ,c                Total           Cottage industry la   Small industry /b             Medium Industry /c                 Total
No.  Aount           No.  Amount       %     No.     Amount-    %         No.   Amount       %    No.  Amount  1          N.      Aon                 o     mut          %     N.     Aon 
Loans Approved /d
Commercial banks        -        -    -         10    5,220    10.9   19        32,740      33.0      29   37,960    25.8       -      -     -         10     6,500    11.4    18   33,000    18.6          28    39,500    16.8
NBFI /e                  2     100   67.0       79   36,224   75.5   38    65,450           66.0     119  101,774   69.1        2    80  100.0         91    47,158    82.5    11  127,790    72.2         170  175,028    74.7
PDBI7T                  -        -    -         12     5,150    10.7      1        850       1.0      13    6,000       4.1     -      -    -           1       400      0.7     -          -     -          1        400     0.2
Rural banks              1     50    33.0        5        396    0.9      -           -      -          6       446    0.3      -      -    -           4       480      0.8     -          -    -           4        480     0.2
Other institutions    -          -    -           3       985     2.0     -           -      -          3       985     0.7     -       -    -         10     2,650      4.6     9    16,382      9.2       19    19,032      8.1
Total              3     150  100.0      109   47,975   100.0   58        99,040    100.0      170  147,165  100.0        2    80  100.0        122   57,188   100.0   98   177,172  100.0           222  234,440   100.0
Loans Released
Commercial banks        -        -     -        11    4,820       9.8   27      29,990      36.0      38   34,810    26.2       -      -    -          15    6,400    11.5   31    33,500    20.5           46    39,900    18.2
NBFI                    -        -     -       129    38,471    37.5   49    52,650         63.0     178   91,121   68.5         2    80  100.0       167   45,462    81.7  122  115,020    70.3           291  160,562    73.2
PDBs                    -        -  100.0       16    4,900       9.9     1        850       1.0       17     5,750     4.3     -       -    -          2        650     1.2     -          -     -          2        650     0.3
Rural banks              1     50    -           5        396     0.8     -           -      -          6       446     0.3     -      -     -          4        480     0.8     -          -     -          4        480     0.2
Other institutions    -          -     -          3       985     2.0     -           -      -          3       985     0.7     -       -    -         12     2,650      4.8    15    15,067      9.2       27    17,717      8.1
Total              1      50  100.0      164   49,592  100.0   77    83,490    100.0           242  133,112   100.0        2    80  100.0    200    55,642   100.0  168  163,587  100.0              370  219,309   100.0
Loans Repaid to IGLF
Commercial banks        1       3    0.1       460    15,317    42.7   11          915     48.6      472    16,235    41.1      -      -     -        398    13,093    32.8   37        1,860    21.2      435    14,953    30.3
NBFI                    2        6    0.3      450    11,404   31.8       2        968      51.4     454    12,378   31.3   17    25         4.0   1,590    17,865    44.8    84        6,647    75.8   1,691    24,537    49.9
PDBs                    9     504   77.9       234     3,022      8.5     -           -      -       243      3,526     8.9   26   345   54.8         311     4,601    11.5       6        53     0.7      343     4,949    10.1
Rural banks           147  1,267    69.8    411        5,038    14.0      -           -      -       558     6,300    15.9   57   257   40.9          312     3,601      9.0     -          -     -        369     3,858      7.8
Other institutions   2          34     1.9      51      1,076     3.0     -           -      -        53      1,110     2.8      1      2    0.3       47        723     1.9      2       205     2.3       50        930     1.9
Total           161  1,8(9   100.0  2,106    35,857   100.0   13           1,883    100.0  2,523    39,549   100.0  101   629   100.0  2,658    39,883   100.0  129               8,765   100.0  2,888    49,277   100.0
Loans Outstanding
Commercial banks        -       -     -        134   35,340    22.0    20/_g  29,683_/   35.5        154   65,023    26.5       -      -    -         105   28,647    16.2    35   61,324    25.7          140   89,971    21.6
NBFI                    3    134    10.4       261   90,434    56.2   37        53,048      63.5     301   143,616    58.4      5   189   25.4        285  117,992    66.8    84  161,421    67.7          374  279,602    67.3
PDBs                   13    360   27.8         87    19,460    12.1      1        850       1.0     101    20,670      8.4     2     15     2.0       69    15,546      8.8      1       797     0.4       72    16,358      3.9
Rural banks            37     798   61.7       171    10,308      6.4     -           -      -       208    11,106      4.5   27   541    72.6         96     7,187      4.1     -          -    -         123     7,728      1.9
Other institutions    1          2    0.1       28     5,306      3.3     -           -      -        29     5,308      2.2     -      -    -          34     7,234      4.1     7    14,862      6.2       41    22,096      5.3
Total            54  1,294   100.0    681  160,848  100.0   58            83,581    100.0      793  245,723  100.0   34   745  100.0    589  176,606   100.0  127  238,404   100.0                   750  415,755   100.0
/a  P 50,000 or below.
/b  Over P 50,000.
7r   Over P 800,000
__  All loans are combined with a 60% guarantee from 1975-79.
/e  NFBI = Nonbank financial institutions.
7    PDB = Private development banks.
/g  Although medium loans were formally introduced to the program starting in 1980, three medium loans had been made prior to Bank's involvement with IGLF starting  1975 at which
time a loan ceiling of P 500,000 was adopted.  As of June 30, 1980 these three loans accounted for P 1,585,000 of the medium loans outstanding.



ANNEX 5
Table 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Characteristics of Loan Approvals by lector, Region, Size, Purpose and Maturity, CY76-81
CY76                            CY77                            CY78                             CY79                             CY8O                            CY81
Ho.    2    Amount       2      No.    Z    Amount        Z     No.    X    Amount        I      No.    %    Amount        x      No.    X    Amount        %    No.    %    Amount    Z
Manufacturing
Food & food products           16   12.3       3.6   12.2       4    5.6        1.2    5.8    12    8.6         4.3    9.1    17   11.6          7.1   11.9    28   16.5         25.8   17.5    36   16.2    32.7   14.0
Beverages                       -            -   -             -        -      -        -      -         -     -         -      -         -    -           -    -         -      -             -      -       -           -
Tobacco
Textiles                        -    -         -       -        4    5.6        0.7    3.5    13    9.3         3.7    7.8       5    3.4        1.8    3.0       4    2.3        4.5     3.0       1    0.4      0.5     0.2
Apparel/f ootwear/
garments                     29   22.3       5.1   17.6       9   12.7        2.2   10.9    11    7.9         3.6    7.7    14    9.5          5.8    9.7    15    8.8         13.5     9.2    26   11.7    28.7   12.2
Wood mE cork products           6    4.6        1.3    4.6      4    5.6        1.5    7.3    16   11.4          3.8    8.1    13    8.8         5.5    9.2       8    4.7         5.2    3.5       6    2.7       5.2     2.3
Furniture & fixtures           16   12.3        3.7   12.6      3    4.2        1.1    5.6       9    6.4        3.2    6.9      8    5.4        2.9     4.8      9    5.3        7.2     4.9       9    4.1      8.7      3.7
Paper 6 paper products          -    -         -       -        -    -          -       -        2    1.4        1.0    2 1      5    3.4        2.5    4.2       3    1.8        4.0     2.7       5    2.3      8.2      3.5       .
Printing, publishing &
allied industry               3    2.3        1.4    4.6      1    1.4        0.2    0.9       6    4.3       2.5    5.3       9    6.1        4.3     7.2      7    4.1        5.9    4.0    13    5.8    15.2         6.5
Leather A leather prod.         -    -          -      -        1    1.4        0.3    1.3       4    2.9        1.7    3.5      2    1.4        0.8     1.3      2    1.2         1.5     1.0      2    0.9       0.8    0.3
Rubber products                 2    1.5        0.8    2.6      -    -          -       -        3    2.1        1.3    2.7      6    4.1        2.7    4.5       2    1.2         1.0    0.7       5    2.3       3.7     1.6
Chemicals                       4    3.1       0.9    3.0       2    2.8        0.7    3.7       3    2.9       0.9    2.0       4    2.7        1.5    2.5       6    3.5         7.2    4.9    11    5.0    17.9    7.6
Nonmetallic mineral prod.   12    9.2           2.4    8.4      3    4.2        0.4    1.8       4    2.9        0.8    1.8      6    4.1        2.1     3.5      -    5.9         4.3    2.9       9    4.1      6.4      2.7
Basic metal industries          -    -         -       -        -    -          -       -                        -      -              -           -    -        10    -          -       -         9    4.1       7.7     3.3
Metal products                  7    5.4        1.4    4.7      8   11.3        2.7   13.4    12    8.6          3.4    7.2    17   11.6         7.3   12.2    28   16.5          26.0   17.7    28   12.6    30.7   13.1
Electrical machinery/
appliances                    2    1.5       0.8    2.9       3    4.2        1.3    6.5       2    1.4        1.0    2.1      1    0.7        0.5     0.8      7    4.1        6.5     4.4       6    2.7       5.5     2.3
Nonelectrical machinery/
appliances                    7    5.4        1.0    3.3      6    8.5        1.8    9.0    14   10.0          5.8   12.4    14    9.5         5.6    9.3       3    1.8        3.5    2.4        3    1.3       1.6    0.7
Transport equipment            11    8.5        2.7    9.1       1    1.4       0.1    0.4       1    0.7        0.1    0.2       1    1.4       0.9     1.5       6    3.5        4.0    2.7       3    1.3       5.1     2.2
Miscellaneous mfga.             8    6.2        1.5    5.3    18   25.5         4.2   20.6    20   14.2          7.3   15.6       2   14.9       7.6   12.7    23   13.5          19.1   13.0    46   20.7    52.6   22.4
Subtotal Mfg.           123   94.6       26.6   90.9    67   94.4         18.4   90.7   133   95.0        44.4   94.5    22   98.6         58.9   98.3   161   94.7    139.2   94.5   218   98.2   231.2   98.6
Construction                      -    -          -       -        1    1.4       0.4    2.2       1    0.7         .5    1.1       -    -         -       _         1    0.6        2.5    1.7             -        -       -
Tourism                           5    3.9        2.1    7.4       2    2.8       1.0    4.7       2    1.4         .8    1.7       2    1.4        1.0    1.7       3    1.8        2.6     1.8      2    0.9       1.6    0.7
Other services                    2    1.5        0.5    1.7       1    1.4       0.5    2.4       4    2.9        1.3    2.7       -    -         -       -         5    2.9        2.9     2.0      2    0.9       1.6    0.7
Total                    130  100.0       29.2  100.0    71  100.0         20.3  100.0   140  100.0        47.0  100.0   147  100.0         59.9  100.0   170  100.0    147.2  100.0   222  100.0   234.4  100.0



CY76                         CY77                          CY78                         CY79                          CY80                          CY81
No.    X    Amount    %    No.    X    Amount    X    No.    %    Amount    X    No.    %    Amount    X               No.   %    Amount    X    No.    X    Amount    X
I     Ilocos                  5    3.8    1.2       4.2    1    1.4    0.1       0.5    6    4.3    0.6        1.4     1    0.7    0.5       0.8    2    1.3       0.8    0.5      7    3.2    7.4    3.2
II    Cagayan Valley          -    -       -        -       1    1.4    0.4       2.2    -    -        -       -       -    -       -        -       -    -        -       -       1    0.5    0.1    -
III   Central Luzon          25   19.2    3.2    11.1    9   12.7    3.0    14.9   16   11.4    4.2            9.0   13    8.8    3.6        6.0    9    5.3       7.3    5.0   16    7.2   15.2    6.5
IV    Metro Manila           32   24.6   10.7    36.5   25   35.2    8.8    43.1   51   36.5   22.2    47.2   65   44.2   29.1    48.6   77   45.3    82.0   55.7  122   54.9  147.3   62.8
IVa   Southern Tagalog       23   17.7    5.8    19.8   17   24.0    3.4    16.7   24   17.1    6.6    14.0   24   16.3    9.0    15.0   22   12.9    15.3   10.4   20    9.0   18.0    7.7
V     Bicol                  10    7.7    2.2        7.5    3    4.2    0.8       3.8    4    2.9    1.3       2.7    5    3.4    2.3        3.8    4    2.4       2.0    1.4      3    1.3    0.3    0.1
VI    Western Visayas        11    8.5    1.9        6.6    4    5.6    0.8       3.7    7    5.0    2.4        5.1   16   10.9    7.1    11.9   24   14.1    11.5    7.8   17    7.6   13.5    5.8
VI    Central Visayas        16   12.3    2.4       8.3    6    8.5    1.6        8.0   17   12.1    6.0    12.9    9    6.1    4.1          6.9   18   10.6    20.9   14.2   25   11.3   22.8    9.7
VII   Eastern Visayas         -    -        -       -       1    1.4    0.3       1.3    2    1.4    0.6        1.2    1    0.7    0.1       0.2    -    -         -       -       1    0.5    2.0    0.9
VIII  Western Mindanao        1    0.8    0.4        1.4    -    -       -        -      -    -        -       -       2    1.4    0.7       1.2    -    -         -       -       2    0.9    1.0    0.4
X     Northern Mindanao       4    3.1    1.1       3.6    1    1.4    0.5        2.4    4    2.9    1.0       2.2     3    2.0    1.2       2.0    7    4.1       4.3    2.9      3    1.3    4.0    1.7
Xl    Southern Mindanao        I    O.b    0.2      0.5    2    2.8    0.2        1.2    7    5.0    1.3        2.7    6    4.1    2.0       3.3    6    3.5       2.9    2.0      4    1.8    2.5    1.1
XII   Central Mindanao        2    1.5    0.1        0.5    1    1.4    0.4       2.2    2    1.4    0.8        1.6    2    1.4    0.2       0.3     1    0.6       0.2    0.1     1    0.5    0.3    0.1
Total                 130  100.0   29.2   100.0   71  100.0   20.3   100.0  140  100.0   47.0   100.0  147  100.0   59.9   100.0  170  100.0   147.2  100.0  222  100.0  234.4  100.0
18



CY76                           CY77                           CY78                            CY79                            CY80                             CY81
No.      i    Amount    Z    No.        X    Amount    Z    No.        1    Amount    z        No.      %    Amount    %    No.         %    Amount    %    No.         %    Amount    %
Size of Loan (P)
50,000 and below           15    11.5      0.7    2.3    3       4.2       0.1    0.6    3       2.1      0.1    0.2       1     0.7       0.1    0.1     4      2.3      0.2    0.1      2      0.9          /a  -
50,001 - 200,000           65    50.0      7.7   26.4   29    40.8         3.6   17.5   42    30.0        5.1   10.7    28    19.0        4.0    6.8   19    11.2         2.7      1.8   27     12.2      3.8    i.6
200,001 - 500,000           50    38.5    20.8   71.3   39    55.0    16.6   81.9   95    67.9    41.8   89.1   118    80.3    55.8   93.1   72    42.4    33.0   22.5   49    22.1                        19.2     8.2
500,001 - 800,000            -      -       -       -       -      -        -      -       -      -        -       -        -     -         -      -      18    10.6    12.9    8.8   46    20.7    34.2   14.6
800,001 - 2.5 million        -      -       -       -       -      -        -       -      -      -        -       -        -      -        -       --    57    33.5    98.4   66.8   98    44.1   177.2   75.6
Total                  130   100.0    29.2  100.0   71   100.0    20.3  100.0  140   100.0    47.0  100.0   147   100.0    59.9  100.0  170   100.0   147.2  100.0  222   100.0   234.4  100.0
Average Size (P '000)
Cottage industry loans /b                  45.5                            41.7                           33.3                             50.0                            50.0                            40.0
Small industry loans Ic                   248.1                          297.2                           342.3                            409.9                          446.0                           468.8
Small industry loans                        -                               -                              -                                -                          1,726.0                         1,807.9
overall                                   224.8                           286.4                          335.6                            407.5                          865.0/d                       1,056.0/d
Purpose of Loan
Fixed assets               125    52.7    21.0   71.9   65    54.2    15.0   73.6  136    58.4    38.7   82.4   153    66.8    49.8   83.2  150    63.8   123.5   83.9  201    68.6   205.6   87.7
Working capital            107      4.2      8.1   27.7   54    45.0        5.2   25.8   97    41.6         8.3   17.6    76    33.2    10.1   16.8   85    36.2    23.7   16.1   92    31.4    28.8   12.3
Other                        5      2.1     0.1    0.4      1      0.8      0.1    0.6    -       -          -    -         -      -          -    -        _-     -          -    -        -      -        -       -
Total                  130/e 100.0    29.2  100.0   71/e 100.0    20.3  100.0  140/e 100.0    47.0  100.0   229/e 100.0    59.9  100.0  235/e 100.0   147.2  100.0  222/e 100.0   234.4  100.0
Maturity of Loans
0 -  3 years               107    47.1       7.9   27.0   54    46.2        5.3   26.2   96    41.6        8.3   17.8    76    33.2    10.0   16.8   85    36.2    23.4   15.9   22                9.9     11.2     4.8
3 -  5 years                74    32.6    11.7   40.2   34    29.0          9.0   44.4   39    16.9    10.2   21.9    42    18.3    11.5   19.1   25    10.6    23.2   15.8   27                  12.2    17.6    7.5
5 -  7 years                 9     4.0       1.6    5.4   14    12.0        3.4   16.5   50    21.6    17.9   37.8    43    18.8    13.9   23.2   55    23.4    51.0   34.7   48    21.6                   51.8   22.1
7 - 10 years                37    16.3      8.0   27.4   15    12.8         2.6   12.9   46    19.9    10.6   22.5    68    29.7    24.5   40.9   64    27.2    39.6   26.9  112    50.5   133.6   57.0
Over 10 years                -        -        -      -    -         -        -       -    -      -          -    -         -      -          -    -        6      2.6    10.0    6.7   13         5.8    20.2      8.6
Total                  130/d 100.0    29.2  100.0   71/d 100.0    20.3  100.0  146/d 100.0    47.0  100.0   229   100.0    59.9  100.0  235   100.0   147.2  100.0  222/d 100.0   234.4  100.0
/a Loan amount was P 80,000.
/b P 50,000 or below.
7i Over P 50,000-800,000.
7T   Sudden increase in average loan size in 1980 and 1981 was due to inclusion of medium industry loans under Loan 1727-PH.
Ie Individual numbers do not add up to total because of multipurpose loans.
AEP Projects Department
March 1981
I" ss
a- 1



100 -                                                         ANNEX 5
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Summarized Balance Sheets /a as of December 31, 1974-1981
(P 000)
1974        1975       1976         1977        1978       1979         1980       1981
----------------------------(As of December 31) --------------------------
Assets
Due from Central Bank                    970.6    2,825.3    9,531.3    5,586.1    5,782.6    5,277.4   10,907.5    1,889.3
Accounts receivable from:
NEDA                                   276.2       276.2       276.2       276.2       276.2       276.2         -           -
USAID PL480                            165.0       205.0       245.0         -           -           -           -           -
EXIM Bank                              900.0       800.0         -           -           -           -           -           -
Temporary investments                 11,617,8   20,294.0   25,762.9   40,089.1   42,417.3   44,906.8   24,085.1   12,952.3
Special time deposits outstanding  42,080.3   79,120.7   87,051.0   89,865.7  113,961.2  152,158.9  245,722.7  415,755.8
Advances to Ministry of
Industry                                 -           -           -           -           -         45.0         45.0       45.0
Advances to NEDA-Promotional
Expenses                                 -           -           -           -           -           -          70.7        34.9
Accrued interest receivable                -           -           -           -           -       7,089.5    7,776.7   10,075.2
Prepaid administrative expenses            -           -           -           -           -           -           -         584.5
Total Assets                    56,009.9  103,521.2  122,866.4  141,817.1  162,437.3  209,753.8  288,607.7  441,337.0
Liabilities & Net Worth
Accounts payabale                      1,125.0    1,015.8        299.2       819.8        38.1        34.1         -         264.5
Accounts payable to Treasurer
of the Phillippines lb                   -          77.5    1,898.2    3,441.7    3,445.3    9,254.3             -      2,791.4
Reserve for deficiencies on
EXIM loan amortization                   8.1       108.4       203.9       330.7       446.6       636.7        39.1        83.6
Advances for EXIM loan
amortization                             0.9         0.9         0.9         0.9         0.9         0.9         0.9         0.9
Accrued interest payable lc                -           -           -           -           -       2,591.5    2,893.3   17,767.0
Subtotal                         1,134.0    1,202.6    2,402.2    4,593.1    3,930.9   12,517.5    2,933.3   20,907.3
Long-term loans due to EXlM Bank   23,648.7   23,029.1   22,378.3   21,695.2   20,979.1   20,228.7   19,443.2   18,621.5
Long-term loans due to IBRD                -      17,070.8   32,718.5   41,288.4   59,612.4   86,744.6  151,676.1  266,429.6
Subtotal                        23,648.7   40,099.9   55,096.8   62,983.5   80,591.5  106,973.3  171,119.3  285,051.1
Provisions for possible losses         1,000.0    1,000.0    1,000.0    1,600.0    2,505.0    3,365.3    3,798.3    3,904.8
Total Liabilities               25,782.4   42,302.5   57,499.0   69,176.7   87,027.4  122,856.1  177,850.9  309,863.2
Accumulation from counterpart funds  19,000.0   49,000.0   49,000.0   59,000.0   59,000.0   59,000.0   74,000.0   89,000.0
Earned surplus                          11,227.2   12,218.7   15,367.4   13,640.4   16,409.9   27,897.7   36,756.8   42,473.8
Total Net Worth                 30,227.2   61,218.7   64,367.4   72,640.4   75,409.9   86,897.7  110,756.8  131,473.8
Total Liabilities &
Net Worth                     56,009.9  103,521.2  122,866.4  141,817.1  162,437.3  209,753.8  288,607.7  441,337.0
Ratios
Current ratio                           11.1:1      19,2:1      14.7:1      11,3:1      12.3:1      4.6:1       14.6:1       1.2:1/d
Total debt equity ratio                  0.8:1       0.7:1       0.9:1       0.9:1       1.1:1       1.4:1       1.6:1       2.4:1
/a  Account through 1978 were prepared on a cash basis; starting with 1979, accounts are on an accrual basis.
7b  Principal, interest and commitment fee on IBRD loan for years 1975-78.  For 1979 to 1981, principal repayment only.
/c  Accrued interest payable:
IBRD        EXIM       Total
1979               2,387.9      203.6      2,591.5
1980               2,461.3      432.0      2,893.3
1981              17,579.7      187.3    17.767.0
/d The sharp decrease in the current ratio between 1980-81 results from the fact that nearly all counterpart funds due from
the Government had been received in 1981 and temporary investments were sold to provide more resources for relending by
IGLF.



-101 -                                                              ANNEX 5
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Summarized Income Statements as of Calendar Years 1974-1981
(P'OOO)
1974        1975        1976        1977/a      1978        1979        1980           1981
Income
Interest income on STD                 1,002.1     1,983.3    3,781.9    3,920.8    4,267.7    8,217.3   19,176.0    26,219.2
Interest income on temporary
investments                          1,148.1       680.7    2,469.2    3,326.3    5,328.1    5,489.6    2,728.4              192.5
Guarantee fees                             10.5       186.0/b    732.3        423.3       518.3    1,160.0    1,791.1        2,553.2
Discount earned on investment
portfolio                                -            -           -           -           -           -           -        3,060.5
Total Income                       2,161.7    2,850.0    6,983.4    7,670.4   10,114.1   14,866.9   23,695.5    32,025.4
Expenses
Administrative expenses                  340.0        559.3       954.0       785.7    1,216.5    1,758.8    2,365.0           334.2
Interest expenses on
EXIM bank loans                        951.6       929.0       905.0        879.7       853.3       818.3    1,228.1         757.6
Interest expenses & commitment
fees on IBRD loans /c                    -          77.5    1,898.2    3,441.7    4,269.8    8,140.4   11,189.6    21,336.9
IGLF promotional expenses /d               50.0       288.1       155.0       170.2       100.0         -           -             -
Losses on guaranteed loans                  -           -           -           -           -           -           -        1,225.0
Total Expenses                    1,342.5    1,853.9    3,912.2    5,277.3    6,439.6   10,717.5   14,782.7    26,660.7
Profit Before Provisions            819.2       996.1    3,071.2    2,393.1    3,674.5    4,149.4    8,912.8            5,364.7
Provision for possible losses             1,000.0         -           -         600.0       905.0       968.0       433.0         106.5
Net Profit (Loss)                  (180.8)      996.1    3,071.2    1,793.1    2,769.5    3,181.4    8,479.8            5,258.2
Ratio as X of Avg. Total Assets
Gross income                                3.9         3.6         6.2         5.8         5.8         8.0         9.5          8.8
Financial expenses                          3.5         1.3         2.5         3.3         3.3         4.8         5.0           6.4
Gross margin                                0.4         1.2         2.7         1.8         2.4         2.2         3.6           2.4
Admin./promotional expenses                 0.7         1.1         1.0         0.7         0.9         1.0         0.9           0.9
Net income (deficit)                        -           1.2         2.7         1.4         1.8         1.7         3.4           1.4
/a  Starting in 1977, ICLF accounts have been audited by the Office of the Auditor of the Central Bank.
/b Includes miscellaneous income of P 23,500.00.
/c Accumulated interest on IBRD loan in respect of 1975 was paid by IGLF in 1977 and charged to earned surplus.
To present a comparable picture summarizations of the past years have been suitably adjusted.
/d Promotional expenses were allocated to NEDA and other non-Central Bank agencies represented at the Review Committee,
upon approval of the Review Committee.



PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Analysis of Arrears of IGLF Portfolio,/a as of December 30, 1981
(Amount in P'000)
Total loans         Loans affected                                   Total         Loans affected as %
outstanding          by arrears                Arrears              arrears as   of loans outstanding
Type of             No. of               No. of                Prin-    In-               % of loans       By             By
institutions         projects  Amount   projects  Amount    cipal  terest   Total  outstanding   number                   amount
Commercial banks        140    89,970         41      21,077     1,395      716   2,111        2.3          29.3           23.4
Nonbank financial
institutions          374   279,602        59      24,031        416      571      987       0.4          15.8            8.6
Private develop-
ment banks             72    16,358         33       6,533     1,193      416   1,609        9.8          45.0           39.9       1
Rural banks              123     7,729        43       2,748     1,350      275   1,625       21.0          34.9           35.5
Other institutions        41    22,096        13       3,891       121      100      221        1.0         31.7           17.6
Total              750   415,755       189      58,280    4,475   2,078   6,553           1.6          25.2           14.0
Principal        Interest, etc.           Total
Aging of arrears             Amount     %       Amount    %         Amount      %
0-3 months                   1,771    39.6      1,363    65.6        3,134    47.8
Over 3-6 months                281      6.3        110     5.3         381      6.0
Over 6-12 months               496     11.1       162      7.8         658     10.0
Over 12-24 months              476     10.6       125      6.0         601      9.2
Over 24 months               1,451    32.4        318    15.3        1,769    27.0
Total                  4,475   100.0    2,078   100.0          6,553   100.0
/a  Arrears of financial institutions to IGLF.
-Jul



PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Analysis of Arrears Between End-Users & Financial Institutions /a
as of December 30, 1981
(Amount in P'O00)
Total loans        Loans affected                                    Total        Loans affected as %
outstanding          by arrears               Arrears            arrears as    of loans outstandlng
Type of             No. of               No. of               Prin-    In-               % of loans       By             By
institutions         projects  Amount   projects  Amount    cipal  terest   Total  outstanding   number                  amount
Commercial banks        158    58,153        48       7,513    5,253   2,100   7,353         12.6          30.4           12.9
Nonbank financial
institutions          547   349,558       141      60,853    4,902   3,270   8,172          2.3          25.8           17.4
Private develop-
ment banks             97    17,119        55      12,477    3,984   2,132   6,116         35.7          56.7           72.9           1
Rural banks             118      6,354       85       4,617    3,512   1,183   4,695         73.9          72.0           73.9
Other institutions       35    17,029         5       1,110        534     467   1,001         5.9         14.3            6.5          L
Total              955   448,213       334      86,570   18,185   9,152  27,337          6.1          35.0           19.3
Principal       Interest, etc.            Total
Aging of arrears             Amount    %        Amount    %         Amount    %
0-3 months                   2,516    13.8    1,780    19.4         4,296     15.7
Over 3-6 months              2,416    13.3    1,283    14.1         3,699     13.5
Over 6-12 months             2,761     15.2    1,248    13.6        4,009     14.7
Over 12-24 months            3,507     19.3    1,704    18.6        5,211     19.1
Over 24 months               6,985    39.4    3,137    34.3        10,122    37.0
Total                 18,185   100.0    9,152   100.0    27,337    100.0
/a  These data are based on reports received from 71 out of a possible 106 accredited and nonaccredited
institutions.  The sample represents 95% of the number of outstanding loans and 83% of the amount of
loans outstanding.
I-r,



- 104 -
ANNEX 5
Table 9
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Trend of Arrears /a Between Participating Institutions and End-Olsers of IGLF, June 1976 - December 1981
(Amount in P'000)
Arrears ratios of                     Arrears ratios of reporting financial
reporting financial institutions                institutions (excluding rural banks)
Total arrears       loans affected as I           Total arrears        Loans affected as x
as % of loans       of loans outstanding          as % of loans        of loans outstanding
outstanding       By number    By amount          outstanding       By number    By amount
Arrears Position by Semester
(06/30/76-12/31/79)
June 30, 1976                              21.4              41.4           55.6             25.4               67.9          54.5
December 31, 1976                          18.3              52.R           46.6              18.3              53.8          45.5
June 30, 1977                              24.3              47.8           54.4              23.8              58.5          55.5
December 31, 1977                          17.3              5q.9           62.6             25.2               53.9          60.7
June 30, 1978                              33.3              6n.6           62.0             30.6                n.a.          n.a.
December 31, 1978                          23.8               42.4          41.9              19.2              48.6          41.6
June 30, 1979                              30.0               58.9          47.3              25.6              36.8          42.1
December 31, 1979                          20.3              57.1           38.4             16.4               44.9          34.3
June 30, 1980                              18.4              46.7           32.4             14.9               38.2          29.2
December 11, 1980                          12.7              42.6           23.4             11.4               37.1          22.2
June 30, 19481                             11.7              37.9           26.1             1n.0               30.8          24.8
December 31, 1981                           6.1              35.0           19.3              5.1               29.7          18.5
/a These data are based on reports submitted to IGLF by financial institutions on the status of their loan portfolio
on semester basis. Hovever, not all financial institutions report to IGLF as required, thus these data do not cover
all loans that are in arrears between end-users of IGLF and participating institutions.
December 19RO           June 1q81          December 1981
Total no. of    Those that              Those that           Those that
participating      reported              reported             reported
institution       to IGLF        1      to IGLF       X      to IGLF        1
Comimercial banks                            21                14         67        17         81
Nonbank financial
institutions                                7                5         71          5         81
Private development banks                    12                 5         42         6         50
Rural banks                                  65               25          3q        27         43
Other institutions                           10                -           -         1         10
Total                                   115               49         43         56         49
/b  Including Savings & Loan Associations and Saving & Mortgage Banks.



ANNEX 5
C-1
- 105 -
PHI LIPPINES
THIRD SMI DEVELOPMENT
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE IGLF UNIT OF THE
CENTRAL BANK'S DEPARTMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
Director and
Chief Executive
Officer for IGLF
11 I
Assistant
Director
IGLF                             . V                         Accounting, Securities'     |       IGLF Staff for4/
DiGLisio                   atn . ~1/ .... Projects Divisioni  Control and Collection        Technical and
D ivisilo n                                                    Division                    Special Studies
16 Professionals               21 Professionals                11 Professionals                 9 Professionals
2 Clerical                      1 Clerical                     4 Clerical
1/ IGLF Examination Division - will be primarily responsible for evaluating potential
institutions for accreditation and the institutional evaluation of accredited
institutions, as well as end-use verification survey of projects assisted.
2J Projects Division - redesignation of the existing Industrial Loans Division; will
handle desk processing of applications under the accreditation scheme, applications
under the sponsorship scheme and the servicing of guarantees.
l/ Accounting, Securities Control and Collection Division - will handle all the
accounting, securities control and collection functions of IGLF.
4/ IGLF Staff for Technical and Special Studies - will handle research and information
activities, the reporting requirements to the World Bank, NEDA, CB and the Review
Committee.
World Bank - 23786



- 106 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment I
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Provided to Four Key
SMI Subsectors Under the Project
The pilot project and training subcomponents of the proposed
project address some of the problems constraining the growth of the food,
garments, wood/furniture and metal working subsectors as follows:
(a) Food Processing Subsector. Most SMI engaged in food production
suffer from: (i) little formal training in food processing
techniques; (ii) poor hygiene; (iii) low processing yields and
quality; (iv) little or no new product development; and
(v) inability to afford the overhead costs needed to upgrade
operations on an individual SMI basis. Under the project, a
series of training courses for SMI-s engaged in food production
will be arranged by the local SBAC/MASICAP in consultation with
the Food Technology Research Department and the Food and
Nutrition Research Institute./l In addition, the following
pilot projects have been proposed: (i) for Central Luzon, a
common food processing plant designed to reduce the "raw material
losses" incurred through the handling of fresh fruit; (ii) for
Western Visayas hatcheries and, possibly, canning techniques of
prawn and bangus; (iii) for Western Visayas, a project to finance
a common (vacuum) packaging facility for traditional bakery
products which should increase shelf life;
(b) Garment Manufacturing Subsector. Many garment manufacturers face
(i) poor quality local raw materials; (ii) difficulty in obtain-
ing costly imported raw materials; and (iii) poor design and
production techniques, resulting in low quality products. Under
the project, the local SBAC/MASICAP will arrange training
courses on design and quality control in conjunction with the
Design Centre of the Philippines (DCP) and the Development
Academy of the Philippines. In addition, as a pilot project, it
has been proposed to finance the permanent working capital of a
bonded warehouse in Cebu to be operated by the local industry
association. Access to the bonded warehouse will reduce the
price of the final product, thereby making it more competitive
on the export market;
/1 Both institutes have staff for consultation on canning, dehydration,
packaging, fermentation and simple food analysis techniques.



- 107 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 2
(c) Wood Using and Furniture Manufacturing Subsector. The major
problems faced by SMI in wood using and furniture manufacturing
are (i) inadequate supply of sufficiently dried/treated raw
material, (ii) furniture design not in keeping with international
tastes; and (iii) difficulty in marketing, particularly for
exports. Under this project SBAC/MASICAP will, in conjunction
with DCP and Forest Products Research and Industries Development
Commission (FORPREDECOM), hold training courses for the local
furniture industry associations on design and finishing
techniques. In addition, the following pilot projects have been
proposed: (i) for Western Visayas, a common kiln drying facility
(incorporating a kiln drying design developed by FORPREDECOM)
which reduces the moisture content of lumber to prevent cracking
and warping; and (ii) for Central Luzon, a common furniture
marketing outlet to be organized by the local Furniture
Manufacturers Association where foreign buyers can view and
place orders for local products;
(d) Metalworking Industry. The major problems facing the metal
working and implement manufacturing SMI are (i) the quality of
available raw material inputs and spare parts; (ii) the
production techniques employed; and (iii) the inadequacy of
machinery maintenance and repair facilities. As a pilot
project,it is proposed that multipurpose centers be established
in Central and Western Visayas to concentrate on the above
weaknesses by (i) providing testing facilities (for carbon
content, etc.) for local raw material inputs; (ii) manufacturing
some essential parts (e.g., pulleys); (iii) repairing and
reconditioning used machinery; and (iv) providing training on
various production techniques including production management.
While these centers will be run and ultimately owned by local
associations of farm (or) implement manufacturers /1, they will
receive operational testing and training assistance from the
Metals Industry Research and Development Center in Manila.
/1 These associations have already been formed in Central and Western
Visayas and have undertaken industry studies with SBAC/MASICAP which
have identified the above weaknesses and proposed these the above
mentioned pilot projects.



- 108 -
ANNEX 6
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Regional Priority SMIs as Established by Regional Industry Studies
Existing                          Growth
priority industries             potential industries
Region I                   Food                             Tannery/leather
Ilocos                  Resort/tourism
Handicraft
Region II                  Furniture/woodworking            Bamboo
Cagayan Valley          Confectionery                     Ceramics
Region III                 Garments                         Ceramics
Central Luzon           Furniture
Meat/vegetable processing
Region IV                  Plastics                         Embroidery (textiles)
Metro Manila and         Coconut products                 Food (coffee)
Southern Tagalog
Region V                   Light metalworking               Pili nut confectionery
Bicol                   Cutlery
Region VI                 Fishery products                  Fruit processing
Western Visayas         Farm implements
Region VII                Metalworking                      Electronics
Central Visayas         Garments
Rattan furniture
Region VIII               Wood-based products               Buri furniture
Eastern Visayas
Region IX                 Rubber                            Fishery products
Western Mindanao         Seaweed products
Region X                  Metalworking                      Meat products
Northern Mindanao       Coconut products
Region XI                 Agroindustry                      Energy (cococharcoal)
Southern Mindanao       Coconut products
Region XII                Food                              Crocodile raising (for
Central Mindanao        Trinuray weaving                    shows)
Brassware
AEP Projects Department
February 15, 1982



-109 -
ANNEX  6
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ministry of Trade and Industry
Summary of Proposed Training for BSMI, SBAC/MASICAP Staff
and SBAC/MASICAP Clients
Staff to be Trained   Training Course                   Training Objective                   Training Institution
A.  BSMI Head            Project Feasibility        To provide the tools & techniques   BSMI utilizing outside
Office Staff      Study                      of project feasibility prepara-           lecturers & senior
tion & the skills required for           SBAC/MASICAP extension
identification of venture oppor-    officers.
tunities with project develop-
ment potential.
Project Management        To provide the conceptual frame-    Economic Development
Course                    work & skills necessary for               Foundation (EDF)
effective management & delivery
of pilot projects & programs to
the regions.
Regional Development   To provide the techniques of                 Center for Research &
Course                    regional planning & development.    Communication
Industry Level Con-    To provide the techiques & meth-    Local SMI
sulting Course            odology required to prepare in-           Consultant
dustry studies & to identify
SMI industries with growth
potential.
Information               To provide the skills required            UPISSI
Management                for effective planning & imple-
Course                    mentation of an information
services system.
UPISSI
Small Business Con-    To upgrade skills required for
sultancy Course           effective delivery of technical
assistance & extension services
to SMIs.
B.  SBAC/MASICAP         Training in Speciali-  To support the industry level                Not identified
Staff /a          zation Industry            consulting of the "industry
(food, wood, garments, desks" to be established in the
metals, etc.)             regions for priority SMI indus-
tries.
Training in Finance,   To upgrade skills required to                Not identified
Production & Market-   recognize & diagnose problems
ing                       common to small enterprises.
Trainors Training         To strengthen training staff              UPISSI
skills in designing, implemen-
ting and monitoring a client
training action program.
C.  SMI Entre-           Business Environment                                                Arrangements for SMI
preneurs /b         Opportunities                                                     entrepreneurs training
Business Laws &                                                     will be arranged
Taxation                                                         according to the needs
Management Function                                                 determined by BSMI.
Product Design &
Improvement
Proper Selection &
Maintenance of
Machinery
Finishing & Packaging
of Products
/a While BSMI's SBAC/MASICAP regional staff take many of the same courses offered to the head office
staff, the specific functions of the regional staff create special training needs; for this reason,
several additional courses (cited above) are included in the training program.
/b Through BSMI's SBAC/MASICAP offices, some specific training courses have been developed for the SMI
entrepreneur which deal with project feasibility and very technical issues such as quality control
and productivity. In order to meet the broader needs of small- and medium-scale entrepreneurs
operating in many different types of industries, an integrated training program covering the fol-
lowing subjects (cited above) has been proposed though the actual courses have not yet been designed.
AEP Projects Department
February 15, 1982



PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Identified Pilot Projects
IBRD
Total cost   contribution
Industry              Project                 Sponsor        (P million)  (P million)
Region I              Handicraft         Common marketing           Producers Asso-        0.14           0.10
Ilocos                                                            ciation
Region III            Food processing   Common fruit and vege-   Producers Asso-           0.30           0.20
Central Luzon                          table dehydration and    ciation
processing facility
Region IV             Coconut products  Common coconut charcoal  Coco Charcoal             1.60           0.80
Southern Tagalog                       testing facility (3-       Producers Asso-
phase project)            ciation                                               H
Region VI             Metalworking -    Common raw material and  Association of            1.60           0.90
Western Visayas    farm implements   parts testing facility   Farm Implement
Manufacturers
Region VI             Furniture and      Common kiln-drying of    Western Visayas          0.50           0.35
Western Visayas    wood-using          lumber for furniture       Furniture Indus-
try Association
Region XI             Farm implements   Organic fertilizer pro-  Collective rice           0.10           0.05
Southern Mindanao                      duction                    growers
Region XI             Agroindustry       Adapted technology for   Ateneo de Davao          0.01           0.007
Southern Mindanao                      biogas production          University
Region XII            Weaving            Common marketing facil-  Producers Asso-          0.14           0.10
Central Mindanao   (handicrafts)       ity                        ciation
Total           4.39           2.51
(US$0.55       (US$0.31
mln)           mln)
AEP Projects Department                                                                                                a
February 15, 1982                                                                                                     w o



- 111 -                            ANNEX 6
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pipeline of Pilot Projects
Region                             Industry                     Project
II Cagayan Valley           Bamboo craft           Improved production technology
II Cagayan Valley           Ceramics               Introduction of technology for
utilization of local clay
deposits
III Central Luzon            Wood/furniture         Collective marketing via "fur-
niture mart"
IV Southern Tagalog         Coconut processing    Common processing facility
V Bicol                    Wood                   Kiln dryer
V Western Mindanao         Wood                   Common kiln dryer
VI Western Visayas          Food                   Common packaging for bakery
products
VI Western Visayas          Fishery/fish pro-      Common hatchery for bangus and
ducer processing       prawn & processing facilities
VII Central Visayas          Wood                   Furniture development center
VII Central Visayas          Food                   Food testing & advisory center
VII Central Visayas          Garments               Common bonded warehouse facil-
ity for exporters
VII Central Visayas          Metalworking -         Reconditioning & service cen
machine tools          ter
IX Western, Northern        Coconut charcoal       Improved (Japanese) technology
& Southern Mindanao                             for charcoal making
X Northern Mindanao        Metalworking           Machine tool testing, servic-
ing & rehabilitation center
XI Southern Mindanao        Bricks                 Technology application to
quality improvement
XII Central Mindanao         Brassware              Technique & marketing improve-
ment
AEP Projects Department
February 15, 1982



PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Commitment and Disbursement Schedule /a for the Proposed Loan /b
(Amounts in US$ million)
MTI
DBP-SMILE                       DBP-PDBs                          IGLF                Commitments/       Total            Total
Commitments   Disbursements   Commitments   Disbursements   Commitments   Disbursements  disbursements   commitments    disbursements
Amount  : /c  Amount  % /c  Amount   % /c Amount   % /c  Amount   % /c  Amount   % /c  Amount   % /c  Amount    1 /c  Amount    % /c
FY83
Oct-Dec 1982        1.50    5.0    -        -      -       -       -       -      2.00    2.9    1.50    2.1   0.35        5.0    3.85      3.0    1.85      1.4
Jan-Mar 1983        1.75   10.8    0.50    1.7    0.50    2.2    -         -      3.50    7.9    3.00    6.4   0.35    10.0    6.10         7.7    3.85      4.4
Apr-Jun 1983        2.00   17.5    0.50    3.4    0.75    5.4    0.25    1.1    4.50   14.3    4.00   12.1   0.35    15.0    7.60    13.5    5.10            8.3
Subtotal        5.25   17.5    1.00    3.4    1.25    5.4    0.25    1.1   10.00   14.3    8.50   12.1   1.05    15.0   17.55    13.5   10.80             8.3
FY84
Jul-Sep 1983        2.25   25.0    1.00    6.7    1.25   10.9    0.50    3.3    5.40   22.0    4.00   17.8   0.35    19.9    9.25    20.1    5.85    12.8
Oct-Dec 1983        2.50   33.3    1.50   11.7    1.50   17.4    1.00    7.6    5.40   29.7    4.00   23.5   0.35    24.9    9.75    27.6    6.85    18.1
Janr-Mar 1984       2.75   42.5    1.50   16.7    2.00   26.1    1.35   13.5    6.10   38.4    5.60   31.5   0.44    31.3   11.29    36.5    8.89    24.9
Apr-Jun 1984        3.00   52.5    2.00   23.4    2.25   35.9    1.75   21.1    6.10   47.1    5.40   39.3   0.44    37.6   11.79    45.9    9.59    32.3
Subtotal       10.50   52.5    6.00   23.4    7.00   35.9    4.60   21.1   23.00   47.1   19.00   39.3   1.58    37.6   42.08    45.9   31.18    32.3
FY85
Jul-Sep 19844        3.15   63.0    2.00   30.1    2.50   46.7    2.00   29.8   6.20   56.0    5.80   47.6   0.45    44.0.  12.30    55.0   10.25    40.3
Oct-Dec 1984       3.30   74.0    2.00   36.8    2.75   58.7    2.15   39.1   6.20   64.9    5.80   55.9   0.44    50.3   12.69    64.8   10.39    48.3
Janr-4ar 1985       3.45   85.5    2.50   45.1    3.00   71.7    2.15   48.4   8.10   76.4    6.00   64.5   0.45    56.7   15.00    76.3   11.10    56.8
Apr-Jun 1985        3.60   97.5    2.50   53.4    3.25   85.9    2.30   58.5   8.10   88.0    6.00   73.0   0.44    63.0   15.39    88.5   11.24    65.4
Subtotal       13.50   97.5    9.00   53.4   11.50   85.9    8.60   58.5  28.60   88.0   23.60   73.0   1.78    63.0   55.38    88.2   42.98    65.4
FY86
Jul-Sep 1985        0.15  100.0    2.50   61.7    3.25  100.0    2.20   68.0   8.40  100.0    6.00   81.7   0.44    69.3   12.84    98.1   11.14    73.9
Oct-Dec 1985       -        -      2.50   70.0    -        -       2.20   77.6   -        -      5.00   88.8   0.42    75.3    0.42    98.5   10.12    81.7
Jan-Mar 1986       -        -      2.50   78.3    -        -       2.20   87.2   -        -      4.00   94.5   0.42    81.3    0.42    98.8    9.12    88.7
Apr-Jun 1986        -       -      2.50   86.6    -        -       2.20   96.7   -        -      3.0    98.8   0.42    87.3    0.42    99.1    8.12    95.0
Subtotal        0.75  100.0   10.00   86.6    3.25  100.0    8.80   96.7   8.40  100.0   18.00   98.8   1.70    87.3   14.10    99.3   38.50    95.0
FY87
Jul-Sep 1986       -        -      2.0    93.3    -        -       0.75  100.0   -        -      0.90  100.0   0.42    93.3    0.42    99.5    4.07    98.1
Oct-Dec 1986       -        -      2.0   100.0    -        -       -       -     -        -      -       -      0.26    97.0    0.26    99.8    2.26    99.8
Jar-Mar 1987       -        -      -       -       -       -       -       -     -        -      -       -      0.21   100.0    0.21   100.0    0.21   100.0
Subtotal        -        -      4.0   100.0    _        -      0.75  100.0   -         -      0.90  100.0   0.89   100.0    0.89   100.0    6.54   100.0
Total          30.00  100.0   30.00  100.0   23.00  100.0   23.00  100.0  70.00  100.0   70.00  100.0   7.00   100.0  130.00   100.0  130.00   100.0
/a  Does not include front-end fee of US$2.0 million which would be disbursed on effectiveness, but does include, on a proportionately distributed basis,
the unallocated amount of the credit component and the contingencies allowed for the technical assistance component.
/b Assumes loan becomes effective by September 1982.
7r Percentages are cumulative.
Note: As the Standard Industrial Development Finance profile is not relevant in the case of a SMI project the above schedule is based on experience under
SMI I (Loan 1120-PH) and SMI II (Loan 1727-PH) and projections. Actual disbursements will principally depend on the investment climate and the
impact of charging market, as against below market, rates to SMI.                                                                                                   >
x



- 113 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Data and Documents Available in the Project File
Title
Reference No.
Section A: Selected Reports on the Philippine SMI Sector
Al  Study on Philippine Small and Medium Scale Industries, Phase
I, UPISSI May 1977
A2,. Nacida 1981, Summary Report
A3. Nacida: Operational Data
A4. Rules and Regulations Regarding Cottage Industries
Development Decree, 1981 (Circular 001)
A5. Rules and Regulations Regarding Establishment of Venture
Capital Corporations, April 18, 1980 (Circular 733)
A6. Summary of Basic Information on 12 Overseas Trading
Companies
Section B:  Selected Reports and Studies Relating to DBP, IGLF and MTI
Bi. DBP, IGLF AND MTI: Letters from Management Confirming
Agreements Reached at Appraisal/Post-Appraisal
B2. Computation of Foreign Exchange Component of SMI Subprojects
B3. DBP and IGLF: Procurement Procedures Utilized by SMI
Borrowers
B4. DBP/DBI: Mission Report on Development Banking Institute
(of DBP)
B5. IGLF: List of Indicative Industries Eligible for SMI
Financing, August 11, 1981
B6. DBP: Circular on Priority and Application of Payments on
Loans and Guarantees, August 31, 1979 (Circular 96)



- 114 -                                 ANNEX 8
Page 2
B7.  DBP:  Circular on the Increase of DBP's Interest Rates,
October 23, 1981 (Circular 59)
B8.  DBP:  Circular Relating to Assignment of Branch Staff for
SMI Operations, December 7, 1981 (Circular No. 71 and
Amendment)
B9.  DBP:  Circular for Billing Borrowers and Foreclosure,
December 29, 1981 (Circular 77)
B1O. DBP: Circular on Documentation of Construction Expenditure,
December 11, 1981 (Circular No. 73)
B11. DBP: Circular Felating to Loan Processing, February 10, 1982
(Circular No. 10)
B12. DBP: Resolution on Measures to Improve Loan Collections,
March 3, 1982 (Resolution No. 864)
B13. DBP:  SMI Loan Procedures, April 6, 1982
B14. DBP:  Names of Branch Staff Assigned to SMI Operations
B15. DBP:  Economic Impact of Subprojects Financed Under IBRD
Loan 1572-PH
B16. MTI:  Organization Chart of MTI
B17. MTI: The Bureau of Small and Medium Industries, Strategy
and Operating Guidelines, 1982
B19. MTI:  Detailed Information on the Operations of the
SBAC/MASICAP Program, Pilot Projects, and Studies to be
Financed Under the Loan
B20. MTI: Proposal for Studies to be Financed Under the Loan
Section C:  Selected Working Papers and Tables Prepared by Appraisal/Post
Appraisal Missions
Cl.  DBP, IGLF:  Operational Projections, 1982-1986
C2.  MTI:  Details of SBAC/MASICAP, BSMI and Entrepreneur
Training Program
C3.  MTI:  Detailed Costing of Techical Assistance Component
C4.  MTI:  Detailed Breakdown of Disbursement Schedule of
Technical Assistance Component
C5.  DBP, IGLF:  IBRD Reporting Requirements



