OfICIAL
DOCMENTS          LOAN NUMR 2169 PH
Project Agreement
(Third Small and Medium
Industries Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND IEVELOPMENT
and
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Dated                   3            , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2169 PH
PROJECT AGREEHENT
AGREEMENT, dated               30             , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
(hereinafter called DBP).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of the Philippines (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred thirty-two million dollars ($132,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that DBP agrees to undertake such obligations toward
the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and DBP, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
DBP on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS DBP, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Management and Operations of DBP
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 2.01. DBP shall carry out Part A of the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and conduct its
operations and affairs, with due diligence and efficiency and in


﻿-2-
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, economic
and investment standards and practices, with qualified and
experienced management and in accordance with its Charter.
Section 2.02. DBP shall ensure that:
(a) no proceed of the Loan made available to it by the Bor-
rower shall be utilized to refinance any Sub-project under Part A
(2) of the Project except where such Sub-project shall be carried
out through the provision of a Sub-loan made by an Accredited
Bank which shall have first been approved by DBP as eligible to
receive such refinancing on the basis of criteria satisfactory to
the Bank; and
(b) under Part A (2) of the Project not less than 60% of
the amount of Sub-loans made by the Accredited Banks located
outside of the Metropolitan Manila area and refinanced, or
proposed to be refinanced by DBP, shall be for Sub-projects
located outside the area of Metropolitan Manila.
Section 2.03. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Loan Agreement, DBP shall submit Sub-projects
to the Bank for approval or for authorization for withdrawals to
be made from the Loan Account.
(b)  (i)   When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-
limit Sub-loan for a Sub-project) to the Bank for approval, DBP
shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to
the Bank, together with a description of the Beneficiary Enter-
prise and of the Sub-project to be financed thereunder (including
an appraisal of, and a description of the expenditures for, such
Sub-project) and the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-
loan, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and (ii) such appraisal will include a calculation of
the economic and financial rates of return of the Sub-project and
an evaluation of the financial condition of the Beneficiary
Enterprise, all as shall be established in accordance with guide-
lines satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) Each request by DBP for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan
shall contain a summary description of the Beneficiary Enterprise
and the Sub-project (including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan) and an
appraisal of the Sub-project which shall include such calculation


﻿-3-
as referred to in paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section and the
terms and conditions of such free-limit Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor.
(d) Except as the Borrower, the Bank and DBP shall other-
wise agree, DBP shall submit applications for approval of Sub-
projects pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section and requests for authorizations to withdraw from the Loan
Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, on or before September 30, 1985.
Section 2.04. (a) DBP undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms whereby DBP
shall obtain, by written contract with the Beneficiary Enterprise
or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect
the interests of the Bank and DBP, including the right of DBP to:
(i) require the Beneficiary Enterprise to carry out and operate
the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accor-
dance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards;
(ii) require that: (1) the goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Sub-loan shall be purchased at a reason-
able price, account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the
goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts
therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and the
competence of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Sub-project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with repre-
sentatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in
the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Beneficiary Enterprise
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary Enterprise to replace
or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank
or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the fore-
going and to the administration, operations and financial condi-
tion of the Beneficiary Enterprise and to the benefits to be
derived from the Sub-project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the


﻿-4-
right of the Beneficiary Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan upon failure by such Beneficiary Enterprise to
perform its obligations under its contract with DBP.
(b) DBP shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Sub-project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of
the Bank and DBP; (ii) comply with its obligations under this
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) achieve
the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Bank and DBP shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To
that end, the Bank and DBP shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their repre-
sentatives with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project,
the performance by DBP of its obligations under this Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of DBP and its subsidiaries and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) DBP shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, Part A of the
Project, the Beneficiary Enterprises, the Sub-projects, the
Sub-loans and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
the foregoing, and the administration, operations and financial
condition of DBP and its subsidiaries.
Section 2.06. DBP shall cooperate fully with the Borrower in
the preparation by the Borrower of the report referred to in
Section 3.07 (d) of the Loan Agreement and, to that end, shall
prepare and furnish to the Borrower all such information as the
Borrower may request on the execution and initial operations of
the Sub-projects under Part A of the Project, their costs and the
benefits derived and to be derived from them, the performance by
the Bank and DBP of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.07. DBP shall: (a) duly perform all its obligations
in agreements, including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, under
which funds have been lent or otherwise put at the disposal of
DBP by the Borrower or its agencies or others for relending,
investment or management; (b) promptly inform the Bank of any
action which would have the effect of assigning, or of amending,
abrogating or waiving any material provisions of, any such


﻿-5-
agreement; and (c) except as the Bank may otherwise agree, not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
assigning, or amending, abrogating or waiving any provision of,
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. Except as the Bank and DBP may otherwise
agree, DBP: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dis-
pose of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business; and (ii) shall take all action necessary to
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on operations
and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
Section 2.09. DBP shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform the obligations of DBP under this
Agreement to the extent to which the same may be made applicable
thereto as though such obligations were binding upon each of such
Subsidiaries.
Section 2.10. (a) DBP shall: (i) issue by September 30, 1982
its lending strategies, including lending guidelines, for cot-
tage, small and medium industries under Part A (1) of the Project
and for its rediscount operations under Part A (2) of the Pro-
ject, acceptable to the Bank; (ii) ensure that the said strate-
gies and guidelines are made applicabli to all Sub-loans financed
from the proceeds of the Loan under Part A of the Project; and
(iii) not amend any provision of said strategies and guidelines
except by mutual agreement between DBP and the Bank.
(b) DPB shall: (i) by September 30, 1982, issue its Policy
and Operational Manual incorporating, inter alia, its criteria
and operating policies in    respect of the Accredited Banks
acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) not make any changes in said
Manual without prior consultation with the Bank.
Section 2.11. DBP shall consult with the Bank prior to
introducing any material changes in the organization or admin-
istration of its Department of Development and Rural Banks, or of
its operations related to the cottage, small and medium indus-
tries.
Section 2.12. The Bank and DBP shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Action Program and, on the basis of
such exchange of views, DBP shall take all such further action,


﻿-6-
satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary or appropriate to
carry out the same.
Section 2.13. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, DBP
shall ensure that the interest rates to be charged for the
Sub-loans to be made under Part A of the Project shall be as
follows:
(i) From DBP to Accredited       at not more than 14%
Banks                       per annum
(ii) From Accredited Banks        at not more than
to end-users                21% per annum
(iii) Direct lending to end-       at not more than
users                       18% per annum for
small industries
at not more than
21% per annum for
medium industries.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) DBP shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of Part A of the
Project and of each Sub-project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of DBP, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure.
(b) DBP shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. (a) DPB shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in


﻿-7-
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of said financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, includ-
ing, without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by
said auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Loan made available to it and withdrawn from the
Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have been
used for the purposes for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of paragraph
(a) above, DBP shall furnish to the Bank each year a separate
opinion by the auditors referred to in said paragraph (a), on the
portfolio (loans outstanding, arrears and collection rates) in
respect of DBP's operations of cottage, small and medium indus-
tries and of its Department of Development and Rural Banks.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, DBP
shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as
shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its debt/equity
ratio within the limit referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agree-
ment; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond DBP's
control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable action as
shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio within such
limit.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, DBP
shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if,
after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of DBP
and all its subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be
greater than ten times the consolidated capital and surplus of
DBP and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by DBP or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by DBP
or by a subsidiary;


﻿-8-
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement on the date and to the extent the amount of
the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of pesos debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by DPB for the purposes of
servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of DBP and all its subsidiaries"
means the total amount of debt of DBP and its subsidiaries,
excluding any debt owed by DBP to any subsidiary or by any
subsidiary to DBP or to any other subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of DBP and its
subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus and free reserves of DBP and its subsidiaries
after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity
interests of DBP in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in DBP or
any other subsidiary.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, DBP
shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity in respect of
any outstanding debt of DBP which, in'the judgment of the Bank,
would materially affect DBP's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 3.06. DBP shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss
resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
currencies (including pesos) used in its lending and borrowing
operations.
Section 3.07. (a) DBP shall cause all Accredited Banks to
maintain separate accounts for their loans refinanced by DBP
under Part A (2) of the Project;
(b) DBP shall cause all Accredited Banks to (i) have their
accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited,


﻿-9-
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to DBP; (ii) furnish
to DBP as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
said financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as DBP shall reasonably request, and (iii) furnish to
DBP such other information concerning said accounts and the audit
thereof as DBP shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.08. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, DBP
shall: (a) open and thereafter maintain a special account, and
shall, upon receipt of each repayment of principal, interest and
other charges on its Sub-loans, deposit the same in the said
special account in accordance with its usual financial pro-
cedures. All amounts so deposited in said special account shall
be used by DBP, to the extent they are not yet required to meet
DBP's repayment obligations to the Borrower pursuant to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, exclusively to finance such further
Sub-Projects as would have been eligible to receive financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan; and (b) prepare and furnish to the
Bank quarterly reports, in scope and form satisfactory to the
Bank, on the status of said special account and the utilizaton of
the funds deposited therein in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section.
Section 3.09. DBP shall act as an agent of the Borrower
to disburse funds for Pilot Projects to be carried out by the
Borrower under Part C (1) of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of DBP thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify DBP thereof.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Ag:7eement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For DBP:
Development Bank of the Philippines
Makati, Metro Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Cable Address:               Telex:
PHILDEBANK                 RCA 7222197 BD PHIL
Manila                     EASTERN 3771 DBP PN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this


﻿- 11 -
Agreement on behalf of DBP, or by DBP on behalf of the Borrower
under Section 2.12 of the Loan Agreement, may be taken or exe-
cuted by the Chairman of DBP or such other person or persons as
DBP shall designate in writing, and DBP shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, Unites States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
DEVELOPMENT ANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
By//
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this JO       day of    4, 198.
FOR SECRETARY


