 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14910

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 05/31/2016

               Country: Jordan
             Project ID: P070958                                                  Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: Regional And Local           Project Costs (US$M):                    50.5                 52.4
                         Development Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                     20.0                 19.7
      Sector Board:        Urban Development          Cofinancing (US$M):                     25.3                 21.0

           Cofinanciers: French Agency for          Board Approval Date :                                  12/19/2006
                         Development (AFD)                  Closing Date:             12/31/2011           12/31/2014
          Sector(s):     General transportation sector (31%); General water; sanitation and flood protection sector
                         (31%); Sub-national government administration (18%); Central government administration
                         (11%); Banking (9%)
          Theme(s):      Municipal governance and institution building (29%); Municipal finance (29%); Urban
                         planning and housing policy (14%); Urban services and housing for the poor (14%);
                         Decentralization (14%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          John R. Eriksson        Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project development objective was "to assist the Borrower in promoting regionally balanced local development
through municipalities and other ancillary support mechanisms" (Loan Agreement dated January 18, 2007, p.5).

The statement of the objectives in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) (p.6) further expands how this was to be
achieved: "by: (a) improving the equity and adequacy of central-local resource transfers; (b) restructuring CVDB
[Cities and Villages Development Bank] to improve its efficiency and diversity its products and services; (c)
strengthening municipal financial management, revenue generation and service delivery capacity; and (d) improving
regional planning and inter-municipal coordination to take advantage of economies of scale and strategic
development opportunities".

Following IEG procedures, this Review will base its evaluation on the statement of objectives in the legal document.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 05/05/2010

c. Components:

Component 1: Strengthening Selected National Level Institutions Involved in the Municipal Sector (appraised
US$3.75 million; actual US$3.78 million) was to support strengthening the capacity of Ministry of Municipal Affairs
(MOMA) in municipal financial management, budget preparation and reporting, and urban planning. It also included
technical assistance to restructure the transfer formula and support the establishment of a Municipal Sector M&E
database which would include both sector and project-specific baseline indicators and performance benchmarks. The
support to the Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) was to focus on issues of governance and
organizational capacity enhancement by assisting in restructuring its board and oversight arrangement as well as
supporting preparation of its Business Plan.

Component 2: Municipal Infrastructure & Services (appraised US$38.7 million; actual US$46.6 million) was to
introduce a performance- based grant system to finance locally identified and prioritized investments in municipal
infrastructure and service-provision. Access to grant funds was conditional on meeting specified performance criteria.
The component also aimed to develop municipal assets that provide services while generating revenue streams (e.g.
vegetable markets, bus transport terminals, parking buildings, tourism facilities, etc.). The implementation process at
municipal level was codified by a formal agreement in the form of Municipal Compact.

Component 3: Municipal Capacity Building (appraised US$6.9 million, actual US$2 million) was to provide technical
assistance and training through CVDB to strengthen municipal financial management and budgeting, asset
management, local revenue collection, human resource capacity, investment project analysis and feasibility study
preparation. This component was to complement activities under under Components 1, 2 and 4.

Component 4: Regional Economic Developme nt Strategy & Investment Planning (appraised US$1.15 million; actual
cost merged in Component 1) intended to strengthen regional planning and foster linkages and coordination among
municipalities in their development planning efforts. It supported the then ongoing work of the Local Development
Department of Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation. The name of Component 4 was changed to Local
Economic Development and Investment Planning during implementation.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project cost: The actual project cost was US$52.4 million, which slightly increased from the appraised amount of
US$50.5 million.

Financing: The IBRD loan of US$20 million was disbursed at US$19.7 million at project closure. The French Agency
for Development (AFD- Agence Française de Développement) co-financed the project through a loan of US$19.1
million and a grant of US$ 6.4 million to total US$25.5 million, which disbursed at US$21 million at closure. AFD
contributed to the activities under Components 2 and 3.

Borrower Contribution : At appraisal, the Government of Jordan committed US$1.5 million and another US$3.5 million
were to come from municipalities. At closure, the total contribution was US$11. 8 million, almost double of the original
commitment.

Dates: The project closing date was extended three times by a total of three years from the original closing date of
December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2014 due to slow progress in implementation (see Sections 8b and 9 below for
discussion). The date for meeting the legal covenants was extended from September 15, 2011 to May 31, 2012.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
At appraisal, one of Jordan’s key challenges was to address inequalities in growth patterns and discrepancies
between the regions in socio-economic development in the country. The municipal sector faced a liquidity crisis, and
there was a lack of clarity in the inter-governmental system to support regional development. The project development
objectives were consistent with the Government of Jordan's strategy to promote local development and strengthen
municipalities by developing sound budgeting, investment and physical planning, and financial management capacity.
The Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC) prepared a local development position paper in
January 2006 outlining key policy areas to be addressed under the project. The Government's Executive
Development Program 2011-2013 continued to support local development to achieve a high level of developmental
balance between governorates, protect the middle class, reduce poverty and unemployment. The project objectives
remained relevant to the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy for Jordan for FY12-15, which recognizes that stronger
local governance and greater responsiveness to citizen needs could help address Jordan’s regional disparities and
reduce pockets of poverty.

b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
The statement of the development objective was clear. The project appraisal document specified how the objective of
regionally balanced local development was to be promoted. In particular, the project activities on strengthening
national institutions involved in the municipal sector, improving municipal infrastructure, and improving municipal
capacity were intended to decrease the municipal financial distress and improve equity and adequacy of central-local
resource transfers. Improved fiscal transfers and reform of municipal policies were expected to improve resource
allocation for a more balanced local development in areas outside the capital Amman.

The project included reform steps as covenants in the Loan Agreement with the Bank and provided technical
assistance and funds needed to achieve the covenants. Under the municipal infrastructure and services component,
the project aimed to introduce a performance-based grant system to require municipalities to undertake reform steps t
o improve their performance in order to access grant funds. The allocation of grant funds was carried out through two
cycles of applications and implementation of sub-projects. Under the first cycle, the grant allocation was done on per
capita basis to 72 municipalities in Jordan (the remaining 21 municipalities benefitted from the EU parallel project); as
per Borrower's comments, this potentially diluted potential impact from the first-cycle infrastructure sub- projects due
to the limited project grant funds. The second cycle was designed to target only municipalities that met specific targets
and indicators formalized in the municipal agreements (compacts). Overall, this was a comprehensive and complex
project that involved far-reaching reforms and multiplicity of stakeholders, and required a longer time-frame than
originally designed for accomplishing all the reforms.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

* Four key outcome indicators were dropped and substituted by two new outcome indicators in 2010. IEG has chosen
not to undertake a split rating as the changes did not make a material difference to the achievement of the project
against its development objective. The first revised indicator was originally an intermediate results indicator, which
was moved to the outcome level.

To assist the Borrower in promoting regionally balanced local development through municipalities and other ancillary
support mechanisms. Rated Substantial.

Outputs
  The Equalization Transfer Formula was restructured to ensure equitable distribution of resources.
  70 municipal infrastructure and services sub-projects were completed in the first cycle of the project's grant
    allocation, which was based on population. This included 21 revenue earning sub-projects (parks and commercial
    stores), 41 sub-projects in infrastructure investments (roads and drainage), as well as the provision of 22
    compactors, 1200 solid waste containers, and 1605 light units. Under the second cycle, the grants were allocated
    on a performance basis to the municipalities. These were mostly revenue generating sub-projects (stores,
    apartments, parks); two sub-projects were converted to providing compactors. The municipalities, which did not
    qualify for the second cycle, received grants under the project and procured 28 compactors, 4 septic tanks, 3285
    solid waste containers, and 1380 light units.
  The Municipal Infrastructure and Services Registration System was developed and piloted in three municipalities-
    Zarqa, Irbid, and Madaba (the target was 4); City Development Strategies were developed by the Cities Alliance
    for Mafraq, Karak, Zarqa and Taflieh (against the original target of 8); Three urban planning and two municipal
    finance workshops were carried out for municipal technical staff, above the targeted four.
  The Integrated Municipal Financial Management Information System (IMFMIS) system was designed and its
    installation and roll-out were supported through AFD financing to be completed in 2016(see Section 10 for
    further discussion).
  The Strategy on Local Development was completed and adopted by MOMA in December 2011. Urban planning
    standards were updated, however not adopted as planned. Solid Waste Management Study was completed.
  The CVDB restructuring study was completed, however not adopted (the original target was to improve the
    CVDB's governance and organizational structure). The City and Village Development Bank is the official lending
    agency and intermediary for fiscal transfers and grant administration to the municipal sector in the country. The
    guidance study for future CVDB operations was delivered in September 2014 and adopted by CVDB but a higher
    level approval was still pending at project closure. Technical assistance and training was delivered for the CVDB
    Planning and Development Department staff (trainers) on environmental, social, financial and procurement
    aspects.


Outcome
  A new Equalization Transfer Formula was adopted by the Cabinet in 2013 (in accordance with the revised
   outcome target). The transfer formula was applied in 2014 and 2015. As a result, in 2014, 37 out of 46 poorer
     municipalities received higher transfers than the average increase in the pool; this was consistent with the
     original outcome target for the increase in fiscal transfers to be proportionally allocated to poorer municipalities.
     The total transfer pool was increased by 60% between 2009 and 2014 (the original outcome target was 10%).
     The Government indicated that the formula was designed to remove municipal deficits.
    The Performance Based Block Grants Formula was adopted by MOMA in 2010 (in accordance with the revised
     outcome target). It was applied in the second cycle of the municipal infrastructure sub-projects, where 52 out of
     91 municipalities were selected for good performance meeting the indicators in the first- cycle municipal
     compacts signed by the municipalities.

The achievement of the objective of promoting regionally balanced local development in Jordan is assessed as
substantial as the project implemented an important fiscal reform through restructuring of an equalization transfer
mechanism, which was adopted by Jordan in 2013 and provided a more equitable allocation of fiscal transfers to the
municipalities. In 2014, the poorer municipalities received higher fiscal transfers than the average increase. The
adoption of a performance based block grant formula provided incentives and transparency for resource allocation to
municipalities and fostered a participatory approach in local development (public participation was carried out by all
the municipalities in the second cycle). Overall, the project delivered a comprehensive institutional strengthening
program, albeit with a few shortcomings in the achievement of the CVDB re-organization reforms and the adoption of
urban planning standards.


5. Efficiency:

The project was designed as a demand-driven project and sub-projects to be financed under Component 2 (80% of
the total project cost) had not been identified at appraisal. A sample of projects with a total value of about 10% of
component 2 costs was selected and assessed to carry out either a cost effectiveness analysis (social and economic
infrastructure and goods for the provision of municipal services) or a cost-benefit analysis ( for revenue generating
assets). Examples of infrastructure projects (roads, solid waste equipment units, lighting units) were provided with
relevant unit costs. One revenue earning project was assessed with a financial rate of return of 8% (PAD, Annex 9).
During implementation, similar methodologies were applied in the feasibility studies to assess the economic
evaluation of sub-projects.

At closure, the municipal infrastructure and service component constituted 89% of the total project cost. The ICR
provides a cost effectiveness analysis comparing unit costs for roads and drainage works. In particular, the unit
average costs for road opening of US$113,825 were lower than unit costs for comparable works in Jordan ($177,500)
and other countries in the region such as West Bank and Gaza ($242,560) and Yemen ($162, 400). The unit cost of
rehabilitating a storm water drain of US$168,800/km was slightly higher than in West Bank and Gaza
(US$155,360/km) and lower if compared to similar projects in Jordan. As for the equipment, the actual unit costs for
compactors and septic tanks were substantially lower than estimated costs, and for lightening units and containers-
they exceeded the estimates by 10% and 20% accordingly.

As for the revenue-generating projects, information was collected and provided by the CVDB on capital costs and
annual revenues of 86 sub-projects, of which 37 were rented. Total cost of revenue earning sub-projects was JD20.6
million (45% of total project cost), of which JD7.3 million (20% of total project cost) was the cost of the rented
sub-projects yielding an annual revenue of JD316,000 and a simple payback period of 23 years. This cash flow yields
a negative NPV and an IRR of 4.3% at a 10% discount rate to the municipality, which, as pointed out by the ICR, is
not responsible for operations and maintenance of the sub-projects.

The project had a delay of three years due to slow progress under the project- supported institutional reforms, which
to some extent was influenced by exogenous factors, such as regional instability.

Efficiency is assessed as modest


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        No
     ICR estimate                     No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.
6. Outcome:

Relevance of Objectives was high, and that of Design is substantial. The objective of promoting regionally balanced
local development in Jordan was achieved to a substantial extent, as the most important reform was implemented in
support of this objective, in particular the adoption of a new Equalization Transfer Formula in Jordan leading to a
substantially more equitable allocation of fiscal resources among jurisdictions, as evidenced by the data for 2014.
Efficiency is assessed as modest due to slow pace in the reform process, which to some extent was affected by the
external factors and regional instability.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

     Political/Government Ownership. The Government implemented an important fiscal reform and increased
      transfers to municipalities by about 65% in 2014. Its commitment to local government reform is deemed to be
      strong. Progress on the reform agenda was slow however, which to some extent was due to external
      circumstances, such as regional instability. Such reforms as adoption of urban planning standards, restructuring
      of CVDB, and rolling out MFMIS to all municipalities are still pending.

     Institutional capacity. The project supported strengthening of technical and managerial capacity of local
      institutions, in particular CVDB, MOMA, and municipalities. Further technical and financial support is required to
      implement and update the systems supported under the project, such as municipal finance and asset registration.


     Financial risk. The ICR p.14 reports that municipal budgets include sufficient funds for operations and
      maintenance of the infrastructure and municipal services supported under the project (this was included in the
      conditions of municipal compacts). Overall, however, the country is under a significant risk for sustaining fiscal
      stability due to its political and economic volatility.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

The project design was based on the Bank's analytical work carried out in 2003 that recommended rationalization
of Jordan’s intergovernmental fiscal system to reduce fiscal disparities and implement a municipal reform. Prior to
the project, the Bank was engaged in the country supporting municipal sector and CVDB through the Community
Infrastructure Project; the lessons reflected in project design included the need for combining reform policy
requirements with infrastructure investments as incentives and a learning tool for better municipal management.
The project was prepared in close cooperation with the Agence Française de Développement (AFD).

Adequate fiduciary and safeguard arrangements were put in place. M&E design had some weaknesses (see
section 10 below). The risk assessment was not sufficiently robust, as this was a complex project targeting
multiple reforms in an environment of limited capacity and mandate to lead the reforms.

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

Supervision missions were held bi-annually, jointly with AFD. The team skills mix was adequate. The project team
held extensive reviews, training, and followed up on issues identified during supervision missions. After the
mid-term review in 2009, supervision was intensified to ensuring the achievement of outcomes and follow up on
agreed actions. The Bank and AFD team carried out implementation assessment of the investment component
which covered the review of the technical, financial, economic and environmental aspects of the sub-projects.
Procurement reviews took place regularly and were used to resolve issues, and provide on the job training. To
ensure continued Government commitment, the Bank team agreed to extend the closing date in two phases
contingent on the Government taking agreed actions and reaching specific goals. Country management supported
the team by raising critical issues to higher levels when the Government delayed actions on reform and funding.
In M&E implementation, the project team dropped the original outcome indicators through project restructuring
and reflecting this in the amendment to the loan agreement. The new outcome indicators, however, had
weaknesses; in particular, there were output oriented and diluted the outcomes sought through the project-
supported reforms. To some extent, this simplification was necessitated by slow progress in the reforms and
collection of the required data. At project completion, though, selected data were reported on the original outcome
indicators. As for the project development objective, the project team noted the discrepancy in the PDO statement
in the PAD and the Loan Agreement and stated that the PDO in the Loan Agreement accurately reflected the
project implementation and contributed to the overall project achievement (Restructuring Paper of December 13,
2011).


   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The Government's commitment to the project- supported reforms was wavering for internal and exogenous
reasons. At appraisal, the Government (i.e., Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation) endorsed the
reforms outlining the main policy areas to be addressed under the project in the local development position paper.
During early stages of implementation, MOMA issued the Municipal Development Strategy 2008-2011 which
identified the project as a key element for the implementation of the municipal sector reform agenda.

During implementation, the Government was slow in meeting the legal covenants and adoption of the reforms.
There were frequent changes in the Government, including at the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, that contributed to
delays in the decision making process with regard to appointment of staff, recruitment and payment of
consultants. The Government's priorities were diverted as a result of the regional developments, in particular the
Arab Spring and the Syria and Iraq crises that led to a large influx of refugees. The counterpart funding was also
delayed, though the final contribution was almost double of the original commitment.

   Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The implementing agencies were the the Project Management Unit (PMU) at the Ministry of Municipal Affairs
(MOMA) and the Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB). In the beginning of implementation, due to the
reorganization of responsibilities in the Jordanian Government, MOMA took over project implementation from the
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation.

The Ministry of Municipal Affairs (MOMA) was the focal point for the project and for coordination among the
ministries and the municipalities. Its main responsibilities focused on the reform aspects, particularly under
components 1 and 4. As noted by the ICR p.23, within these responsibilities, the MOMA’s ability to influence
government speed of decision making was limited. There were also weaknesses in the PMU's capacity to support
MOMA in managing the reform consultancies, and issues were raised with regard to late payments.

The Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) was responsible for the implementation of components 2
and 3, in close cooperation with MOMA. The ICR (p.23) finds the CVDB performed well with respect to its
responsibilities for procurement, financial management, reporting to AFD and the Bank.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:
There were four original outcome indicators that largely measured the expected outcomes from the project activity
aimed to improve the allocation of fiscal resources to municipalities. The Results Framework also indicated that these
indicators were gauging improvements in the performance of CVDB to respond to the financing needs of
municipalities as well as improved municipal capacity (PAD, Annex 3). These included (i) % increase of fiscal
transfers proportionally allocated to poorer municipalities; (ii) cumulative % increase in resource transfers to
municipalities other than Amman over the 5-year project; (iii) decrease in municipal financial distress, as measured by
the % of municipalities removed from the troubled status (i.e., negative operating surplus greater than 20%); and (iv)
% reduction of municipalities having a total variation forecast and actual budget exceeding 15%. Baseline and target
values were set at appraisal for most of the indicators, except for the first outcome indicator and sub-projects under
component 2, which were demand-driven (PAD, Annex 3). The system to measure and monitor the indicators was to
be designed and implemented as part of the project. The PMU at the Ministry of Municipal Affairs (MOMA) was
responsible for maintaining the monitoring framework.

The original results framework was adjusted and simplified in 2010 (Amendment to the Loan Agreement of June 11,
2010). As there was a substantial delay in completion of studies on financial monitoring data and adoption of a new
transfer formula, the original quantitative indicators of outcome were abolished and replaced with adoption of the
critical reform steps, i.e., transfer formulas. While adoption of critical decisions measured the reform process, the
indicators were less meaningful in measuring the outcomes expected from these reforms.

b. M&E Implementation:

As reported by the ICR p.12, the results framework was updated during missions to monitor progress. The Integrated
Municipal Financial Management Information System supported under the project is scheduled to be completed with
AFD funding by July 2016, which would facilitate monitoring, comparing and analyzing of municipal financial
management. An Infrastructure and Services database, an integral part of the IMFMIS, is to be rolled out to all
municipalities, monitored by MOMA and updated regularly.


 c. M&E Utilization:
   As noted by the ICR p.12, M&E was used in discussion with Government on meeting critical milestones – such as
adopting the transfer formula and meeting covenants. The implementation of the Integrated Municipal Information
Monitoring System (2016) will be used for monitoring and evaluation of the municipal performance and further
development of the intergovernmental fiscal system in Jordan based on consistent and reliable data.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

This was a Category B project that triggered one safeguard policy -Environmental Assessment OP 4.01 due to
potential negative environmental impacts that could occur during implementation of the rehabilitation and
maintenance sub-projects (PAD, Annex 11). As per ICR p.8, the sub-projects were screened to avoid complexities of
land acquisition/ resettlement or complex environmental impact assessments. A social assessment during project
preparation found that the social risks associated with the project were very low to moderate and would be mitigated
through the participatory aspect of the project.

The ICR p.13 reports that safeguard policies were consistently rated as satisfactory. The Bank’s environmental
specialist conducted environmental reviews of sub-projects, which were found to adhere to the Bank environmental
safeguard policy. For the AFD financing, CVDB applied the same environmental screening and mitigation procedures
as for Bank funded sub-projects. Following the findings of an Environmental and Social Assessment and Audit of
Sub-project Implementation under the first cycle in 2011, three training workshops were conducted to improve
knowledge and skills in environmental screening and public participation needs of all the participating municipalities in
the north, the south and the middle of the Kingdom. Under the first cycle of projects, public consultation was
conducted for only three projects out of 15. In the second cycle, public participation was carried out by all the
municipalities.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial management. The ICR p.13 reports that financial management procedures and arrangements complied with
Bank requirements. Audit reports and audited project financial statements were received on time. Audit reports were
unqualified (clean). Project Financial Monitoring reports (FMRs) were prepared on excel spreadsheets approved by
the Bank and these were delivered on time and found to be adequate. The initial limited coordination and exchange of
information between FM and procurement staff improved during implementation. The amount of US$8,743 was
returned to the Bank when CVDB financed 100% of the cost of goods from the Loan where only 90% Bank financing
is allowed.

Procurement. The ICR p.13 reports that procurement processes adhered to Bank guidelines. Procurement training
was provided in formal and as on-the-job training to procurement personnel at CVDB and for the participating
municipalities. Under the second cycle of projects, Bank procurement reviews were simplified and all procurement
was subject to post reviews, which were undertaken at least once a year. A few deviations were found and corrected.
There was no mis-procurement under the project.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Moderately        The achievement of the objective of
                               Unsatisfactory               Satisfactory      promoting regionally balanced local
                                                                              development in Jordan is assessed as
                                                                              substantial as the project delivered a
                                                                              comprehensive institutional
                                                                              strengthening program (albeit with a
                                                                              few shortcomings), including the
                                                                              implementation of an important fiscal
                                                                              reform through restructuring of the
                                                                              equalization transfer mechanism, which
                                                                              was adopted by Jordan in 2013 and
                                                                              provided a more equitable allocation of
                                                                              fiscal transfers to the municipalities, as
                                                                              evidenced by the results for 2014. For
                                                                              slow pace of the reforms and delay in
                                                                              project implementation, efficiency is
                                                                              assessed as modest.
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately        The M&E shortcomings are considered
                              Unsatisfactory                Satisfactory      moderate (for more discussion, please
                                                                              refer to Section 8a)
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
Selected lessons from the ICR:

    Intergovernmental fiscal reform requires strong leadership and multi-phased support and government
     commitment. Under this project, for example, a number of important reforms were implemented despite
     diversion of the Government attention and priorities in response to external shocks.

    Addressing several diverse and complex themes in a limited capacity environment may limit the depth of
     success for each reform. This project involved a comprehensive institutional reform, falling short of
     achievement on a number of its multiple targets.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is comprehensive, but focuses more on the narrative of implementation and discussion of the procurement,
financial management, and M&E aspects of project performance, rather than being analytical. In particular, it lacks
technical depth and analytical rigor in discussion of the project- supported reforms, i.e., the equalization transfer
formula and the adoption of local development strategy. Lessons are generic with little specific indication as to how
they derive from experience under the project. In section 3.4 (c) on unintended outcomes and impacts, the ICR is not
clear on the point it is trying to make with regard to the shifting emphasis from public infrastructure services to
commercial investments under the second cycle sub-projects.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
