                                      Document of

                                  The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00003412



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-74220)



                                         ON A

                                        LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 20 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                       HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                                        FOR A

               REGIONAL AND LOCAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                     June 30, 2015




Social, Urban, Rural and Resilience Global Practice
Middle East and North Africa Region
                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2015)

                             Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar
                             Jordanian Dinar 0.708 = US$1.00

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                   [January 1 – December 1]


                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AFD                     Agence Francaise de Developpement
CAS                     Country Assistance Strategy
CPS                     Country Partnership Strategy
CVDB                    Cities and Villages Development Bank
GDP                     Gross Domestic Product
GoJ                     Government of Jordan
ICR                     Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR                     Implementation Status Report
IMFMIS                  Integrated Municipal Financial Management Information System
LDD                     Local Development Department
M&E                     Monitoring and Evaluation
MoMA                    Ministry of Municipal Affairs
MOPIC                   Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MTR                     Mid-Term Review
O&M                     Operation and maintenance
PAD                     Project Appraisal Document
PBBG                    Performance-Based Block Grant
PDO                     Project Development Objective
RLDP                    Regional and Local Development Project
QAG                     Quality Assurance Group
QEA                     Quality at Entry Assessment
SA                      Social Assessment




Senior Global Practice Director:        Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
Practice Manager:                       Nina Bhatt (Acting)
Project Team Leader:                    Chantal Reliquet
ICR Team Leader:                        Christianna Johnnides
                        HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                        Regional and Local Development Project



                                        CONTENTS


DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information                                                      i
B. Key Dates                                                              i
C. Ratings Summary                                                        i
D. Sector and Theme Codes                                                 ii
E. Bank Staff                                                             ii
F. Results Framework Analysis                                             iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs                                 vii
H. Restructuring                                                          viii
I. Disbursement Graph                                                     viii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                     1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                      6
3. Assessment of Outcomes                                                 15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                              21
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                            21
6. Lessons Learned                                                        23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners   24

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                                      25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component                                             26
Annex 3. Additional Details on Intermediate Indicators                    30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes    33
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR           35
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders         45
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                     46
Annex 8. Municipal Transfers                                              47
Annex 9. Map                                                              60
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Regional and Local
Country:                Jordan                  Project Name:
                                                                          Development Project
Project ID:             P070958                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-74220
ICR Date:               02/04/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          JORDAN
Original Total
                        USD 20.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 19.61M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 20.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Municipal Affairs (MOMA), Cities and Villages
Development Bank (CVDB)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD)

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/27/2004    Effectiveness:            07/10/2007         07/10/2007
                                                                                  05/05/2010
Appraisal:             09/27/2006    Restructuring(s)*:
                                                                                  01/07/2014
Approval:              12/19/2006    Mid-term Review:                             11/01/2009
                                     Closing:                  12/31/2011         12/31/2014
* Date of disclosure
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                        Moderately              Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                          Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory          Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately              Overall Borrower
                                                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:            Unsatisfactory          Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                                9                    9
Central government administration                                     11                  11
General transportation sector                                         31                  31
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 31                  31
Sub-national government administration                                18                  18




Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                      14                  14
Municipal finance                                                     29                  29
Municipal governance and institution building                         29                  29
Urban planning and housing policy                                     14                  14
Urban services and housing for the poor                               14                  14

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Hafez M. H. Ghanem                   Daniela Gressani
Country Director:          Ferid Belhaj                         Joseph P. Saba
Practice
                           Nina Bhatt                           Inger Andersen
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Chantal Reliquet                     Stephen Karam
ICR Team Leader:           Christianna Johnnides
ICR Primary Author:        Maha Armaly




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the project is to assist the Government of Jordan (GoJ) in
promoting regionally balanced local development, principally through municipalities and other
ancillary support institutions by: (a) improving the equity and adequacy of central-local resource
transfers; (b) restructuring the Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) to improve its
efficiency and diversity its financial management, revenue generation and service delivery
capacity; (c) strengthening municipal financial management, revenue generation and service
delivery capacity; and (d) improving regional planning and inter-municipal coordination to take
advantage of economies of scale and strategic development opportunities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                 Baseline     Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
           Indicator
                                  Value         approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)           Values        Target Years

% increase of fiscal transfers
proportionally allocated to          NA       After Mid-term                          Dropped
poorer municipalities
Dropped May 2010. The transfer formula was applied in 2014 and 2015 using the equity portion.
As measures of allocations to poorer municipalities, data provided by CVDB shows (a) Of the 5
governorates where household income is above the national average – i.e. richer, 3 received less
per capita transfers than the national average in 2014, and 4 will receive less in 2015 vs. 1
governorate in 2009. (b) Of the 7 governorates where household income is below the national
average – i.e. poorer, 6 receive more per capita transfers than the national average in 2014, which
is similar to 2009. In 2015, 5 governorates will receive per capita transfers more than the national
average. (c) The percentage increases in the transfers (by average household income) gives a
mixed picture. Most municipalities received increases above the national average. The data is
skewed by municipalities in the Amman Governorate that received lower increases. According to
the Project team, 37 out of 46 poor municipalities received higher than average transfers. See
details in the text and Annex 8.




                                                iii
Cumulative % increase in
resource transfers to                        10% by end of                        Dropped but
                                     0
municipalities other than                        Project                           Achieved
Amman
Dropped May 2010. According to the Annual Municipal Financial Report, transfers to
municipalities other than Amman increased from JD 60.4 million in 2009 to JD 68.5 million in
2010-2012. In 2014, total transfers reached JD 120 million. This indicator was achieved.
Decrease in Municipal
Financial distress as
measured by the % of
municipalities removed from       10%              2%                               Dropped
troubled status (negative
operating surplus greater
than 20%)
Dropped May 2010. No information available. Project teams indicate that municipal deficits
were eliminated following the application of the formula and the substantial increase in the
transfer pool in 2014.
% of Municipalities with
total variation between
forecast and actual budget        40%             10%                               Dropped
exceeding 15% of two prior
years.
Dropped May 2010. No information available.
Adoption of Equalization
                                                    -               X              Achieved
Grant Formula
New: May 2010. Formula adopted by Cabinet in March 2013
Adoption of Performance
                                                                    X              Achieved
Based Block Grant
New: May 2010. Adopted by MOMA in July 2010 and applied to select municipalities eligible
for Performance Based Block Grants-projects in cycle 2.




                                              iv
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                               Baseline     Values (from                       Achieved at
          Indicator                                           Revised
                                Value         approval                        Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                            documents)                        Target Years
         Component 1
Equalization transfer
system adopted by MOMA                -           Yr. 3                             Achieved
and MOF
Formula adopted by Cabinet in March 2013. According to Ministry of Finance, the formula was
partially (equity portion) applied in 2014.
Annual joint MOMA &
                                                                                    Partially
MOF annual report on                  -       Starting Yr. 2
                                                                                    Achieved.
resource transfer pool
First report provided in 2009. Last report provided during completion mission covered years
2010-2012.
Annual report on Jordan
Municipal Indicators                  -           Yr. 2                             Ongoing
published
Municipal Services and Infrastructure Registration pilot in 3 municipalities. Data collection
completed in 3 municipalities (Irbid, Madaba and Zarqa). MFMIS design completed. Installation
and roll out will be completed in 2016 under AFD financing.

MOMA adopts urban                                                               Partially
                                     -         Yr. 3
planning standards                                                              Achieved.
New standards were submitted to Higher planning Council in December 2011. Planning council
provided comments March 2012
CVDB bylaws updated and
governance structure in              -         Yr. 3                            Dropped
place
Production and
implementation of CVDB               -         Yr. 2                            Dropped
Multiyear Business plan
CVDB adopts new credit
analysis, risk and portfolio         -         Yr. 3                            Dropped
management techniques
May 2010: Above 3
indicators replaced with
CVDB provided with                   -                                          Achieved
guidance on future
operations
Study completed in September 2014. The study incorporated the advice on the original individual
items. Study reviewed by the Bank in October 2014. Study adopted by CVDB and submitted for
higher level approval but is not implemented.

Component 2
Municipal applications to
                                   -               100                           Dropped
participate in PPBG

                                               v
Signed municipal compacts           -             65                             Dropped
91 applications were submitted for cycle 1 &2. All municipalities sign compacts.
Several infrastructure
improvements to be
                                    -                                            Dropped
determined depending on
subprojects

% of approved sub-project
                                    -               80%                           Achieved
successfully implemented

New: May 2010. Dropped
December 2013
% of municipalities that
                                     -
improved as per
performance indicators in                                                          Dropped
Cycle 2
52 municipalities selected for good performance to participate in Cycle 2 and receive
Performance Based Block Grants.
Percentage of municipal
projects that achieve their
intended result target               -                                                80%
measured through technical
audit

Component 3
Number of Municipal
Finance system installed            -               15                            Dropped
and generating reports

% increase in property tax
                                     -                                                Dropped
collection
Property Tax monitoring system developed with UNDP support. No specific data provided on
property tax collection by the Project. Data provided to the ICR shows erratic changes in
aggregate local revenues, but significant increases in 2014 and 2015.
% of municipalities
receiving grants disclosing          -               80                               Dropped
list of projects and budget
In an assessment of 15 sub-projects in Cycle 1, 3 stated that public consultation on the project
was undertaken. After training, efforts were increased and it is reported that all municipalities
undertook public consultation in Cycle 2.
Number of successfully
                                                                                      Partially
finalized pilot master and           -               8
                                                                                 Achieved/Dropped
structural plans
City Development Strategies financed by the Cities Alliance were developed for Mafraq, Karak,
Zarqa and Taflieh




                                               vi
Number of workshops for
municipal technical staff on                        2              3
                                   -                                            Achieved
1. Urban planning                                   2              2
2. Municipal finance

New: 5/26/2010. Dropped
12/5/2013:
% of municipalities
                                   -                                            Dropped
achieving municipal finance
and planning indicators as
per municipal compact
52 municipalities received Performance Based Block Grants indicating they meet indicators in
compacts under 1st cycle.
Component 4:
Regional Development
Strategic Plans approved by
                                                                                Dropped
Government/

Revised 5/26/2010: Strategy        -             Yr. 3             3
                                                                                Achieved
on Local Development
adopted by MOMA

Strategy adopted by MOMA in December 2011.



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
No.                              DO                        IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     02/06/2007         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     06/22/2007         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               0.00
  3     12/19/2007         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               0.15
  4     06/29/2008         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               0.60
  5     01/24/2009     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               1.39
  6     12/25/2009     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               4.49
  7     03/18/2010     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               5.57
  8     05/26/2010         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               5.57
  9     03/11/2011         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               8.04
                            Moderately                Moderately
 10     08/27/2011                                                                      8.04
                          Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately                Moderately
 11     02/09/2012                                                                      9.84
                          Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
 12     06/09/2012     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               10.55
 13     12/26/2012     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               12.46
 14     05/17/2013     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               14.24

                                              vii
 15    12/21/2013     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   15.88
 16    06/16/2014     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   16.73
 17    12/30/2014     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   17.80


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 05/05/2010                S    MS            5.57   Adjust key indicators
 01/07/2014               MS    MS           15.88   Extend closing Date




I. Disbursement Profile




                                            viii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the Project is to assist the Government of Jordan in promoting
regionally balanced local development, principally through municipalities and other ancillary
support institutions by: (a) improving the equity and adequacy of central-local resource transfers;
(b) restructuring CVDB to improve its efficiency and diversify its products and services; (c)
strengthening municipal financial management, revenue generation and service delivery capacity;
and (d) improving regional planning and inter-municipal coordination to take advantage of
economies of scale and strategic development opportunities. (PAD p. ii)

In the Loan Agreement (p. 5), the objective of the Project is defined as follows: “to assist the
Borrower in promoting regionally balanced local development through municipalities and other
ancillary support mechanisms.”

This Implementation Completion Report will focus on the Project objective as defined in the
Loan Agreement.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The Project Development Objectives were not revised.




                                                ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Background

1. Jordan is an upper middle-income country with a population of 6 million dispersed across a
   land area of approximately 91,971 km2 and a per-capita GNI of $4,390. The population is
   around 80 percent urban and is one of the youngest among upper middle income countries,
   with 38 percent being under the age of 14. At the time of appraisal, more than 50 percent of
   Jordan’s population lived in and depended economically on the capital - Amman - and
   surrounding metropolitan areas where services and economic opportunities tend to be
   concentrated. The Jordanian economy had prospered - with over 7 percent growth in GDP in
   2004.


Regional and Local Government Sector Issues

2. At appraisal, one of Jordan’s key challenges was to address the inequalities in growth
   patterns, socio-economic conditions and resource distribution from a spatial perspective
   across the country. The Bank’s analysis of Jordan’s intergovernmental fiscal system carried
   out in 2003 recommended the rationalization of the transfer system to make it a more
   effective instrument in implementing policies of national interest at the local level, and in
   reducing horizontal fiscal disparities.

3. Jordan’s municipal sector experienced a period of upheaval. Between 1994 and 2000, with
   the increased demand for services coupled with increased unemployment, municipal hiring
   increased by 70 percent -- accounting for 45 percent of municipal expenditures. This resulted
   in higher municipal budget deficits which were mostly financed by advances and short-term
   loans from the Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB). By 2000, around half of the
   328 municipalities that existed at the time were declared insolvent. Annual budgetary
   transfers of about JD12 million, and off-budget transfers (fuel and property tax) of about
   JD30 million failed to close the gap. By mid-2001, the Government took action by
   amalgamating the 328 municipalities into the 99 that existed at the time of appraisal (not
   including Greater Amman Municipality), declaring a hiring freeze, rescheduling municipal
   debts to CVDB, and launching a training program. In addition, the central government’s
   financial transfers were increased by raising the local share of the fuel tax from 3 to 6
   percent. This response was only partially successful in addressing the problem of municipal
   finances. Administrative and jurisdictional restructuring and re-engineering a bottom-up
   approach to municipal development became necessary. The 2004 budget plan indicated that
   the municipal sector would face a liquidity crisis of nearly JD 20 million, which indeed
   occurred and random bailouts were approved on an ad hoc basis as in prior years.

4. The Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC) prepared a local
   development position paper in January 2006 outlining key policy areas to be addressed under
   the proposed Regional and Local Development Project (RLDP), among other interventions.
   Key sector issues included: (a) absence of a sector strategy; (b) regional imbalances in
   socio-economic development and access to resources; (c) lack of clarity in the
   intergovernmental system to support regional development; (d) weak sector regulatory
   oversight; (e) lack of a business plan for CVDB; and (f) unbalanced staffing in the municipal
   sector in terms of numbers and skills.

                                               1
Rationale for Bank Assistance

5. The Government saw the Bank as a key partner in a long-term process of analysis,
   consultations, and change processes in municipal and regional development in Jordan. The
   Bank had prepared analytical work on intergovernmental fiscal affairs and municipal finance
   issues. The Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations and Municipal Finance in Jordan dated
   December 2002 outlined the challenges facing the intergovernmental system, the status of
   municipalities and the role of CVDB. Some of the conclusions and recommendations of this
   sector work were embedded in this Project as first steps to start the process of municipal
   reform in Jordan, including CVDB reform and designing incentives for better resource
   allocation and service delivery.

6. The Bank’s global experience in municipal sector reform, and its involvement in Jordan,
   particularly in the implementation of the Jordan Community Infrastructure Development
   Project with CVDB, was viewed as a catalyst to attract international expertise as well as
   financing from other donors to support the change process.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7. The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in promoting regionally balanced local
   development through municipalities and other ancillary support mechanisms.

8. The original key outcome indicators were:

- Percentage increase of fiscal transfers proportionally allocated to poorer municipalities.
- Percentage increase in resource transfers to municipalities other than Amman over the 5-year
project.
- Decrease in municipal financial distress as measured by the % of municipalities removed from
the troubled status.
- Percentage reduction of municipalities having a total variation between forecast and actual
budget exceeding 15%.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
    reasons/justifications.

9. The Project Development Objective was not revised. During the Mid Term Review, the
   Bank and AFD teams clarified that “regionally balanced local development” means
   regionally balanced fiscal transfers; this clarification was not formalized. Key indicators were
   revised (level 2) due to lack of baseline and monitoring data which were to be developed
   during the Project after studies were to be completed. The final key outcome indicators were:

    -   Adoption of Performance Based Block Grant
    -   Adoption of Equalization Grant Formula

10. According to the restructuring paper, (dated May 2010) the reason for restructuring key
    indicators was to better reflect the project development objective. The above revised two key
    indicators were part of the Project design, and technical assistance was provided in the
    Project in order to develop both formulas. The Performance Based Block Grant was used to
    allocate Bank and AFD funds for sub-projects. The Equalization Transfer Formula addresses
    the Government’s intergovernmental transfer mechanism which had been largely adhoc in

                                                2
    nature and replaces it with a performance and equity based transfer formula. The baseline
    data for the original indicators were not available, and the Integrated Municipal Financial
    Management Information System (IMFMIS) was to collect the data and develop the
    indicators.

            a. Main Beneficiaries

11. The main beneficiaries of the Project are local governments/municipalities in Jordan as well
    as institutions at the national level that are involved in regulating and developing the local
    government sectors in particular the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
    (MOPIC), Ministry of Municipal Affairs (MOMA), and the Cities and Villages Development
    Bank (CVDB). All municipalities of Jordan benefit from the policy reforms at the national
    and local levels to improve decision making, allow increased local participation, and increase
    equity and predictability of resource transfers, among other benefits, leading to overall
    improvements in efficiency of resource allocation. All municipalities in Jordan benefitted
    from the Project through the investment component (2). In the first cycle of Component 2, 72
    municipalities received block grants based on their population. The remaining 21 were
    excluded because they were beneficiaries in other donor programs. In Cycle 2, after the
    performance based block formula was designed and agreed, 52 municipalities were qualified
    for performance based grants for revenue generating projects, while 41 were granted
    infrastructure related projects. All municipalities benefit from experiences in improved
    project preparation procedures. Other municipalities benefit from improved systems of asset
    and financial management. Populations of municipalities benefitted from investments in
    parks, drainage, roads, solid waste and sanitation equipment provided through the Project,
    and ultimately these populations benefit from improved municipal performance and services.

            b. Original Components
Component 1: Strengthening National Level Institutions Involved in the Municipal Sector
and Project Management Support, Original Cost Estimates: US$3.75 million (of which US$
3.25 million from IBRD funds and US$0.50 million from Government Counterpart Funds).
Actual Cost: US$3.8 million

12. This component supported the Ministry of Municipal Affairs (MOMA) in developing rules-
    based policies regarding budget review processes and fiscal transfers, introducing a hard-
    budget constraint for municipalities, revising the municipal classification system,
    streamlining revenue/expenditure assignments at local government level, updating the urban
    planning regulations and rationalizing relevant regulatory procedures. It provided technical
    assistance to restructure the transfer formula and supports the establishment of a Municipal
    Sector M&E database to include both sector and project-specific baseline indicators and
    performance benchmarks.

13. The component supported the Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) and focused
    on issues of governance and organizational capacity enhancement by assisting in
    restructuring its board and oversight arrangement as well as supporting preparation of its
    Business Plan. Assistance to CVDB also aimed to strengthen and develop its credit risk
    analysis techniques and to develop appropriate analytical tools, forms, documentation
    systems and procedures. The component supported the development of curriculum, trainer
    certification and training of trainers. The component supported the strengthening of the
    Planning and Development Department (PDD) existing within CVDB. This included the
    services of environmental and social specialists and the upgrading of the financial and
    procurement systems.

                                                3
14. The component supported the main implementing agency-the Local Development
    Department (LDD) at Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC) to
    strengthen its project management capacity and future capability to lead and effectively
    coordinate the implementation of the national Local Development Strategy.

Component 2: Municipal Infrastructure and Services; Estimated Costs: US$ 38.70 million
(of which US$ 16.10 million from IBRD funds, US$ 19.1 million equivalent from AFD
funds, and US$3.5 million equivalent from municipality counterpart funds); Actual Costs
US$46.6 million (of which US$15.8 million from IBRD funds; US$19.0 million from AFD
funds; and US$ 11.8 million from municipalities).

15. This component introduced a performance-based block grant (PBBG) system to finance sub-
    projects delivering basic municipal infrastructure and services (e.g. solid waste equipment,
    water and wastewater network rehabilitation and extension, water catchments systems, roads
    rehabilitation and extension, street lighting; retaining walls, etc.) to be selected on the basis of
    agreed priority criteria. Block grants were provided conditional on meeting specific
    performance criteria, thus serving as an important incentive for municipalities to undertake
    needed reforms. These criteria were applied on the basis of physical, socio-economic and
    performance-based dimensions. This component also aimed to develop municipal assets that
    provide services while generating revenue streams (e.g. vegetable markets, bus transport
    terminals, parking buildings, tourism facilities, etc.). The use of municipal asset management
    strategies/plans would be supported, together with methodologies for participatory planning,
    budgeting and implementation at the local level. The implementation process at municipal
    level was codified by a formal agreement in the form of Municipal Compact.

Component 3: Municipal Capacity Building, US$6.90, (of which (US$ 6.40 million
equivalent from AFD funds, and US$ 0.50 million from Government Counterpart funds);
Actual Costs US$2.0 million.

16. This component aimed to strengthen municipalities to improve the delivery of municipal
    services in a sustainable way. Activities under this component were designed at the local
    level to complement activities under Components 1, 2 and 4. Technical expertise was
    provided as well as training, to strengthen municipal budgeting, revenue generation, asset
    management, urban planning, human resource management, investment project analysis and
    feasibility study preparation, and to develop and pilot mechanism for participatory
    governance. Assistance under this subcomponent targeted three main areas of municipal
    management: (1) Municipal Financial Management and Local Resource Mobilization; (2)
    Strategic Urban Planning Practices and Urban Environment, and (3) Customized Municipal
    Training and Technical Assistance, particularly in areas related to sustainable delivery and
    management of municipal services and participatory governance.

Component 4: Regional Economic Development Strategy & Investment Planning, US$1.15
million, of which (US$0.65 million from Bank Funds and US$0.50 million from Government
Counterpart funds). Actual costs merged in Component 1.

17. This component included technical assistance to strengthen regional planning and to foster
    effective linkages and coordination among municipalities in their development planning
    efforts. It supported and expanded upon ongoing work of the Local Development Department
    of Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation and explored current institutional
    arrangements to develop options for consideration to realign and improve regional and local

                                                   4
    government coordination. The component financed activities that help identify regional
    competitive advantages and means of exploiting them in environmentally sound and
    sustainable ways.

            a. Revised Components

18. The name of Component 4 was changed from Regional and Economic Development Strategy
    and Investment Planning to Local Economic Development and Investment Planning.
    Regional and municipal coordination and cooperation remained important for the Project.
    Separately, technical assistance and funding from the Cities Alliance was mobilized by the
    Bank team to prepare City Development Strategies for 4 municipalities (Zarqa, Mafraq,
    Tafileh and Karak). The need for a development of a National Solid Waste Management
    Strategy derived from the observation that a large share of the municipal budget is spent on
    Municipal Solid Waste activities. At the same time, the needs for solid waste management
    continue to rise due to migration to urban areas, a large influx of refugees from Syria and
    Iraq, as well as the need to upgrade, modernize and expand on the existing solid waste
    infrastructure. Project implementation showed that while several consultancies had common
    themes, they were divided between components covering national and local levels (e.g. urban
    planning guidelines, municipal financial information systems). These studies were merged
    into larger comprehensive contracts covering both national and local activities to ensure
    consistency and minimize need for coordination.

            b. Other Significant Changes

19. May 8, 2008: Change in Implementation Arrangements. The Loan Agreement was amended
    to transfer project coordination from the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
    (MoPIC) to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs (MoMA).

20. May 10, 2010: Changes to the Dated Covenants. Three dated covenants lapsed (on
    September 15, 2009): (a) prepare and adopt an equalization transfer system setting out, inter
    alia, measures to ensure equitable distribution of resources amongst the municipalities; (b)
    adopt new urban planning standards and guidelines; and (c) adopt a comprehensive multi-
    agency local development strategy. The new deadline for the achievements of the covenants
    was reset to September 15, 2011.

21. Changes to the Project Indicators: During the mid-term review, Project indicators were
    revised to reflect the PDO outcomes and the existing data/type of sub-projects implemented
    under the project. The numerical PDO key indicators (% increase of transfers proportionally
    allocated to poorer municipalities, and cumulative % increase in municipalities other than
    Amman) were replaced with the requirement to adopt the Block and Equalization Transfer
    formulae.

22. Change in name of Component 4: from Regional Economic Development Strategy and
    Investment Planning to Local Economic Development Strategy and Investment Planning.
23. The change in the name of component 4 better reflects the activities and the outcomes to be
    achieved under that component and is in response to a request from the Government of
    Jordan dated March 1, 2010

24. December 13, 2011: Financing. Total financing is increased from US$50.50 million to US$
    51.50 million due to a proposed increase in government financing of $ 1 million.


                                               5
25. Reallocations. A reallocation of the Bank Loan proceeds is made in order to (a) meet
    commitments under cycle 2 of the Performance Budgeting Block Grant (PBBG-2); and (b) to
    cover implementation of the associated supervision consultancies under PBBG-2.

26. Training. Definition for “training” was added in the loan agreement to mean “Project related
    study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities, not included
    under goods or service providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space and
    equipment rental, local and international travel, per diem costs of trainees, trainers and
    trainers’ fees, and interpretation and translation services.”

27. Closing Date. The closing date for the Project is extended from December 31, 2011 to May
    31, 2012 to enable the achievement of project triggers/covenants.

28. Extension of Dated Covenants. The date for meeting the legal covenants was extended from
    September 15, 2011 to May 31, 2012.

29. May 10, 2012: Closing Date. The closing date was extended from May 31, 2012 until
    December 31, 2013 in order to allow for the successful completion of ongoing activities
    under Component 2 (Municipal Infrastructure Services) and Component 3 (Municipal
    Capacity Building).

30. December 5, 2013: Closing Date. The closing date was extended to December 31, 2014.
    The monitoring indicators: Percentage of municipalities that improved as per performance
    indicators in Cycle 2: was replaced by "Percentage of municipal projects that achieve their
    intended result target as measured through the technical audit". The indicator: Percentage of
    municipalities achieving municipal finance and planning indicators as per municipal compact
    was dropped.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project Preparation

Soundness of Background Analysis

31. The background analysis of the Project was sound. The thrust of the Project was the reform
    of the intergovernmental fiscal transfer system through the adoption of reform by local and
    national level institutions involved. Improved fiscal transfers and reform of municipal
    policies were expected to improve resource allocation to achieve a more balanced growth in
    areas outside the capital Amman. The preparation of the Project was based on a detailed
    sector work entitled: Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations and Municipal Finance in Jordan
    (2002). The Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation prepared a local
    development position paper in January 2006 outlining the main policy areas to be addressed
    under the Project. The Bank and the Government agreed on key sector issues to be addressed
    through the Project, including: (a) need for a sector strategy; (b) regional imbalances in
    socio-economic development and access to resources; (c) lack of clarity in the
    intergovernmental system to support regional development; (d) weak sector regulatory
    oversight; (e) need to modernize the CVDB; and (f) appropriate staffing in the municipal
    sector.



                                                6
32. The Bank was active in Jordan in the municipal sector and with CVDB most recently at the
    time of implementation of the Community Infrastructure Project (CIP). Lessons from CIP
    and similar projects in the region were introduced, such as: (a) the desirability of combining
    reform policy requirements with infrastructure investments as incentives and a learning tool
    for better municipal management; (b) the use of municipal compacts to anchor agreements
    between the national and local governments; and (c) the feasibility of covering several
    municipalities once a systematic approach is utilized. The Government also looked for the
    Bank’s experience in municipal reform and infrastructure implementation to leverage the
    potential for success for the Project and the interest of other donors. The Project was
    prepared in close cooperation with the Agence Française de Développement (AFD). AFD
    financing was identified at appraisal and concluded in parallel with the Bank’s financing.

Assessment of Project Design

33. The Project objective as defined in the Loan Agreement--“to assist the Borrower in
    promoting regionally balanced local development through municipalities and other ancillary
    support mechanisms”--is a higher level objective defined in the Country Assistance Strategy
    (CAS 2006-2010) dated April 6, 2006: Cluster 2, p. 20: Supporting Local Development
    through Increased Access to Services and Economic Opportunities with the objective to
    support the Government’s aim of achieving regionally balanced and equitable growth. It is
    also defined in the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS 2011-2015) dated February 1, 2012:
    Results area III.2,p. 30: Pursue local development and address poverty pockets in support of
    the Government’s objective to promote local development to achieve a high level of
    developmental balance between governorates.

34. The PAD clarifies the overall objective of the Project with four specific objectives: (a)
    improving the equity and adequacy of central-local resource transfers; (b) restructuring
    CVDB to improve its efficiency and diversify its products and services; (c) strengthening
    municipal financial management, revenue generation and service delivery capacity; and (d)
    improving regional planning and inter-municipal coordination to take advantage of
    economies of scale and strategic development opportunities.

35. The design of the Project focused more in its components on the specific sub-objectives
    outlined above as means to achieve the higher level objective. The components address the
    need for improvements in the intergovernmental fiscal transfers with a focus on equity
    through reform at the local and national levels, but not directly on “balanced regional growth”
    in its wider definition. The disconnection between the stated and intended objectives of the
    Project is a shortcoming in the Project design. The design includes strong emphasis on policy
    reform through 3 of its 4 components: (1) Strengthening National Level Institutions; (3)
    Municipal Capacity Building; (4) Regional/Local Economic Development Strategy and
    Investment Planning. Component 2: Municipal Infrastructure Services supported the reform
    agenda through providing the incentive in the form of funds for priority local sub-projects in
    infrastructure services and productive investments. The reform components provided the
    studies to determine the content of transfer formulas; restructuring of CVDB, technical
    assistance for upgrading urban planning standards and methodologies, soft infrastructure,
    such as databases for municipal assets and for municipal financial information; and training
    for national and local officials to introduce them to modern practices in intergovernmental
    fiscal relations, local government administration and project management. The Project
    stressed the requirement for reform and included reform steps as covenants in the Loan
    Agreement with the Bank – while at the same time providing the technical assistance and
    funds needed to achieve the covenants/reform.

                                                7
36. The infrastructure component was spread all over the country. The Project introduced
    standardized methodologies to evaluate sub-projects and to require municipalities to
    undertake reform steps such as making budgets public and submitting them to MOMA, and
    promoting public participation in order to access grant funds. On-the-job training was
    provided in the Project for the purpose of project preparation, implementation and
    monitoring. Sub-projects were screened to avoid complexities of land acquisition/
    resettlement or complex environmental impact assessments.

37. The ambitious design made the project complex and taxed the limited capacity of the
    implementing agencies involved in the implementation of the reform including MOPIC,
    MOMA, CVDB, and the municipalities. The project aimed to improve the capacity of these
    same institutions, and therefore, capacity building was done within the practical
    implementation of the Project (learning by doing). Such a comprehensive and complex
    project requires (a) strong coordination among government agencies and (b) strong
    leadership, understanding and experience in the process. At the time of preparation of the
    Project, the involved agencies did not have such characteristics due to the infancy of the
    reform process. The project’s complexity limited the extent and depth of implementing the
    far-reaching reforms (e.g. the municipal financial management information system and the
    urban planning activities) by spreading thin the existing capacities and the attention to all the
    components. The Project partially delivered on the reform agenda included in the design, but
    the process was difficult and follow up to anchor and implement the achievements is
    necessary.

Government Commitment

38. The Government was concerned with the instability of the intergovernmental fiscal system,
    and the failure of previous bailouts. The Government showed commitment to the Project
    through the inclusion of the objective of addressing the deficiencies identified in the sector
    work and targeted for support in the Project. In the early stages of the Project, MOMA issued
    the 2008-2011 Municipal Development Strategy which identified the Regional and Local
    Development Project (RLDP) as a key element for the implementation of the reform agenda
    of the Municipal Sector, and is a first step towards developing the Local Development White
    Paper which is an outcome of the Project.

39. Stakeholders from the national government were involved in the development of the Project
    including the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation, Ministry of Municipal
    Affairs, CVDB, and the Ministry of Finance. However, the extent of need for leadership and
    mandate to carry the reforms through was underestimated.

Risk Assessment
40. The risks identified at appraisal and their ratings were a mix of some realistic risks and other
    unexplained risks. The project is a high risk/high return operation because of the complexity
    of the issues and their solutions, the multiplicity of stakeholders, and the limited skills and
    experience of the involved agencies, while at the same time needing strong leadership to
    navigate and push for the adoption of the reform process among the national and local
    governments. The Project includes long term mitigating measures of the risks, particularly in
    anchoring reform with policy advice, improved operations and monitoring. Risks identified
    at appraisal were as follows:



                                                 8
41. Targeting of the poorest being subject to political interference was rated as a moderate with
    the mitigation measure being the government’s commitment and monitoring. The transfer
    formula continued to rely to a large extent on the needs and resource capacities of
    municipalities before introducing performance as an incentive element in the formula.

42. Interagency coordination risk was rated substantial and was mitigated through the creation of
    an inter-ministerial committee. Given the complexity of the Project, this risk needed higher
    level strong and sustained mitigation.

43. The risk of limited technical expertise to implement the project was rated as moderate given
    the experience of the Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) with World Bank
    Projects. Given the complexity of the Project, the novelty of the municipal reform process in
    Jordan, and the limited implementation and leadership capacity at the national level (i.e.
    MoPIC and MoMA), this risk was not adequately assessed, in particular with regard to the
    municipal policy reform required. Risk mitigation is inherent to the Project that aimed to
    improve the capacities of the same implementing agencies.

44. The risk that credit financing will distort the lending market for CVDB was rated moderate.
    The risk was that CVDB lending for operating costs “has undermined the credit market in
    Jordan”. CVDB operates under its own law and its responsibility is to provide financing to
    municipalities. Discussions with government officials clarified that municipalities are
    allowed to borrow from the private sector only in rare circumstances.

45. The risk of appropriate maintenance of the built infrastructure by municipalities was rated
    modest. Low tariffs and poor tax collection were correctly identified as the source of such
    risk. Mitigation of such risks was to be accomplished by the newly introduced participatory
    approach which would improve relations between citizens and their local governments and
    increase their willingness to pay tariffs and taxes. Such measures are necessary but not
    sufficient to achieve cost recovery and direct sufficient resources to operations and
    maintenance. The Project does not address service tariffs and cost recovery, but requires
    municipal management improvements including improvements in local revenue mobilization.
    If not appropriately addressed in a holistic approach, lack of resources for operations and
    maintenance would constitute a higher than modest risk.

46. The risk of lack of continued government commitment to the policy of decentralization was
    rated moderate. The technical assistance and support provided in the Project and the
    requirement for the Government to study the issues itself and publish the decisions (white
    papers) on the relevant subjects covered by the Project were good mitigation measures that
    enhanced the Government’s commitment. Government strategies continue to stress the
    importance of delegating responsibilities to local governments while insisting on reform.

47. There was no Quality at Entry assessment undertaken the Quality Assurance Group for the
    Project.

2.2 Implementation

48. Project implementation was challenging during the difficult environment facing Jordan and
    the region at the time. The Arab Spring and the influx of refugees from Syria strained the
    government capacities and diverted its attention to emergencies. There were several changes
    to the Government. At the same time the responsible agencies worked to continue Project
    implementation. Implementation responsibilities were changed at the start of implementation.

                                               9
    The responsible agencies moved from MoPIC and its Local Development Department to
    MoMA and its CVDB arm. CVDB had the main responsibility for implementing the overall
    daily activities of the Project, including fiduciary and safeguard issues. A Project
    Management Unit was set up at the Ministry of Municipal Affairs which was responsible for
    overall coordination of the Project and for the reform elements. The complexity of the
    Project’s objectives and components in a traditional government environment contributed to
    delays. Two practical reasons for delays were (a) change in the implementation arrangement
    by moving responsibilities from the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
    (MOPIC) to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs (MOMA); and (b) reconfiguration of the
    consultancy assignments from being component driven to be theme driven which rationalized
    and consolidated them from 29 to 15 contracts. The slow process of agreement among the
    several stakeholders on the content, implementation and final output and payment of
    consultancies also caused delays.

49. More recently, Jordan has suffered from multiple, large and successive exogenous shocks that
    have negatively affected its macro-economic situation. Since 2012, macroeconomic
    performance has deteriorated from an already weak position. The global financial crisis and
    the Arab uprisings have had an adverse impact on growth, the fiscal balance and the balance
    of payments. Deterioration in foreign exchange reserves was in large part driven by
    disruptions to gas inflows from Egypt. Fiscal costs of the refugees in Jordan were estimated
    at 2.4% of GDP in 2014, up from 1.8% of GDP in 2013. Real GDP growth reached 2.8
    percent in 2013 which was on par with that achieved in 2012 and 2011 but subdued compared
    to the 2000-2009 average of 6.5 per cent. At 12.6 percent, unemployment remains high,
    particularly among women and the youth.


50. There were 4 regional level Project restructurings with 3 extensions of closing dates. The
    mid-term review triggered a comprehensive restructuring which included the revision of the
    results framework. The Bank and the Government were diligent in undertaking the
    restructuring in order to formally record critical agreements and changes. In one case, the
    extension of the closing date was limited to 7 months and the longer extension made
    contingent upon the undertaking by the Government of agreed actions. See section 1.7 above
    on significant changes. However, the restructuring had two shortcomings: (i) it did not
    adjust the higher level objective of “regionally balanced local development”; and (ii) replaced
    strong, yet difficult indicators with simplified indicators that did not adequately reflect the
    intended accomplishments of the Project.

51. The mid-term review initiated corrective actions including (a) review and change of the
    monitoring indicators based on availability of data and capacity of MOMA; (b) extension of
    covenants’ due dates; (c) insistence on recruiting additional staff to advance project progress;
    (d) strengthen the coordination within the government agencies; (e) streamline procedures
    and avoid unnecessary reviews and authorizations for payments; (f) consolidate the number
    of consultancy assignments to amalgamate national and local technical assistance activities
    and start up delayed consultancies; (g) set responsibilities and specific actions and deadlines
    to ensure project progress; and (h) undertake a collaborative Bank/AFD and MOMA/CVDB
    review of the first cycle of infrastructure projects particularly the technical and environmental
    aspects to derive lessons and design corrective actions to develop cycle 2. A shortcoming of
    the MTR was that it did not revisit the Project objective and the dilution of outcome
    indicators.



                                                 10
52. The Government showed hesitancy in taking agreed actions in terms of appointing
    consultants and following up on recommendations, which led to delays in achieving
    objectives. There were delays due to protracted decision making process by the Government
    with regard to appointment of staff, recruitment and payment of consultants. Dated
    covenants were extended twice from September 15, 2009 to September 15, 2011 and then to
    May 31, 2012 when they were finally met. Turnover at the MOMA at high levels (including
    the appointment of 4 different ministers in 18 months) contributed to delay in decision
    making. On occasion, there were delays in providing the necessary counterpart funding to
    implement the Project in time due to the imposition of budgetary spending caps. The Bank
    and AFD team responded to these challenges by (a) agreeing on a strict dated plan of action
    and following up diligently on its implementation; (b) linking agreements to extending
    closing dates to agreed and implemented actions by the Government; and (c) raising issues to
    higher levels of management and government.

53. The infrastructure investments (component 2) proceeded fairly well, with limited problems.
    The Bank provided training to streamline the procurement process. The main issue with the
    infrastructure component related to weak capacity in preparing feasibility studies, particularly
    in smaller municipalities. The Bank/AFD in collaboration with MOMA/CVDB responded by
    initiating a review of feasibility studies with participating municipalities. This review was
    complemented with follow up training sessions on appropriate methods of preparing
    feasibility studies including attention to technical, financial/economic and environmental
    issues. Specific environmental collaborative reviews and training were also undertaken.
    Jordanian environmental regulations and requirements for environmental assessments and
    monitoring of subprojects and their inclusion into contracts were emphasized.


M&E Design

54. The higher level objective to which the project contributes is “to promote regionally balanced
    local development”. The M&E framework aimed to measure improved balanced local
    development through the improvements in allocation of fiscal resources to municipalities. A
    direct measure of “balanced local development” is not explicit in the results framework. An
    efficient and equitable national and local resource allocation is one important element in the
    promotion of balanced local development, but many other initiatives would be needed to
    effect the high level objective.

55. The original results framework aimed to measure progress of and set targets for key outcomes
    of reform in quantitative terms (e.g. % increase in transfers to poorer municipalities, decrease
    in municipal financial distress, or % increase in transfers to municipalities other than
    Amman). Baseline and target values were set where possible, but the system to measure and
    monitor the indicators was to be designed and implemented as part of the Project. Sub-
    projects under the 2nd component were demand driven, and therefore, baseline indicators were
    not available, and numerical target indicators were not set. The Project Management Unit at
    the Ministry of Municipal Affairs (MOMA) was responsible for maintaining the monitoring
    framework.

M&E Implementation

56. Following the mid-term review, the results framework was be adjusted and simplified. The
    mid-term review clarified “regionally balanced local development” to mean regionally
    balanced fiscal transfers, but this was not reflected in the restructuring of the Project. The

                                                11
    original key targets set (i.e. improvements in fiscal transfers) could not be measured or
    achieved at the early stages of the Project, because a new transfer formula would be adopted
    only after conducting the required studies and discussions, which were delayed. Numerical
    targets were abolished and replaced with the adoption of the critical reform steps; i.e.
    adoption of effective transfer formulas. Intermediate indicators for reform were simplified
    and consolidated from multiple to single, yet weakened outcomes. For the CVDB
    restructuring for example, multiple outcomes (restructuring the board, develop a business
    plan, strengthen risk analysis) were consolidated into one outcome: to provide advice on
    CVDB restructuring which included the original subtasks. Indicators continued to focus on
    adoption of critical policies (e.g. urban planning standards at the national and local levels,
    strategy to restructure CVDB, publishing municipal information data and adoption of
    municipal financial information system). Intermediate indicators for sub-project investments
    were also simplified. Physical outputs (% improvements in solid waste, water, sanitation,
    etc) were removed and new indicators focused on numbers of municipalities and sub-projects.
    On the one hand, adoption of critical decisions anchors the reform process in the
    Government’s operations and requires it of all actors, and is therefore a good measure of
    commitment to reform. However, oversimplification of the results framework made the
    outcome and output indicators less meaningful measures of the objectives/outcome and
    outputs of the Project.

M&E Utilization

57. The results framework was updated during missions to monitor progress and to push for
    action to meet critical milestones – such as adopting the transfer formula and meeting
    covenants.

58. The Infrastructure and Services database would need to be rolled out to all municipalities,
    monitored by MOMA and updated regularly. The Integrated Municipal Financial
    Management Information System is scheduled to be completed with AFD funding by July
    2016 and will become the cornerstone for the continued monitoring, comparing and analyzing
    of municipal financial management.

59. Overall, the design, implementation and use of the M&E system is rated Modest. The future
    implementation of the Integrated Municipal Information Monitoring System (2016) has
    potential in the monitoring and evaluation of municipal performance and the further
    development of the intergovernmental fiscal system in Jordan based on consistent and
    reliable data.

2.3 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Financial Management

60. The financial management (FM) arrangements of the Project were consistently rated as
    moderately satisfactory throughout implementation. FM staff participated in almost all
    missions. The reason for the less than fully satisfactory rating is that the Project management
    information system was not capable of generating project financial monitoring reports
    (FMRs) or project financial statements (PFS). The project prepared FMRs using excel
    spreadsheets. The Bank provided the required skeleton formats for these tables. The Bank
    FM specialist found a lack of definition of roles and responsibilities among the FM staff at
    the project implementation unit, and there was limited coordination and exchange of
    information between FM and procurement staff. Such shortcomings were later corrected. One

                                                12
    FM review found that CVDB had financed 100 percent of the cost of goods from the Loan
    funds, where only 90% Bank financing is allowed in the Loan Agreement. The difference
    which amounted to US$ 8,743 was considered ineligible. The issue was quickly resolved,
    and the amount was returned to the World Bank soon thereafter.

61. Financial management procedures and arrangements complied with Bank requirements.
    Audit reports and audited Project financial statements were received on time. Audit reports
    consistently received an unqualified “clean” opinion. The World Bank review of the audit
    report and audited PFS found them acceptable. Similarly, Project Financial Monitoring
    reports (FMRs) that were prepared on excel spreadsheets consisting of Project Sources and
    Uses of Funds Statement, Project Commitments Sheet, and Designated Account
    Reconciliation Statement were consistently delivered on time and found to be adequate. The
    Bank conducted reviews of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) on a sample basis and the
    results were found to be compliant with the threshold as set in the Project’s Loan Agreement;
    payments were confirmed as eligible, substantiated, the related internal controls acceptable,
    the supporting documents were properly arranged, and the files were readily accessible.

62. For the AFD financing, CVDB applied the same financial management arrangements and
    procedures as those for the Bank funding.

Procurement

63. The procurement arrangements and processing for the Project were rated moderately
    satisfactory to satisfactory during implementation. Procurement processes adhered to Bank
    guidelines. Procurement staff participated in almost all missions. Procurement training was
    provided in formal and as on-the-job training to procurement personnel at CVDB and for
    municipalities undertaking projects. For the second cycle of the Performance Based
    Budgeting Grants (Component 2), and given the experience gained at CVDB, Bank
    procurement reviews were simplified and all procurement was subject to post reviews, which
    were undertaken extensively and consistently a minimum of once a year. A few deviations
    were found and corrected, and lessons were learned and incorporated in future biddings.
    There was no mis-procurement under the project.

64. For the AFD financing, CVDB applied similar procurement arrangements and procedures as
    for the Bank financed portions of the Project, and obtained no-objections from AFD.

Environment

65. The Project triggered the Environmental Assessment safeguard policy (OP/BP/GP 4.01) and
    was classified as category B in accordance with Bank guidelines. Safeguard policies were
    consistently rated as satisfactory.      The Bank’s environmental specialist conducted
    environmental reviews of sub-projects, which were found to adhere to Bank Environmental
    safeguard policy. For the AFD financing, CVDB applied the same environmental screening
    and mitigation procedures as for Bank funded sub-projects.

66. An Environmental and Social Assessment and Audit of Sub-project Implementation
    (December 2011) was undertaken by an independent consultant. The study reviewed sub-
    projects under cycle 1 and provided extensive training for municipalities and CVDB staff.
    The study indicated that municipal staff need to improve knowledge and skills in
    environmental screening and public participation needs. Three training workshops were


                                               13
    conducted, in the north, the south and the middle of the Kingdom to cover all the
    participating municipalities.

Social

67. The project did not trigger social/resettlement policies. Sub-project designs avoided land
    acquisition, and investments were built on municipally owned land or undertook
    rehabilitation of existing roads with public right of ways.

68. A social assessment (SA) was undertaken during project preparation. The SA informed the
    Project on the limited experience or tradition of social participation and government/public
    partnerships in Jordan. The SA assessed the willingness of the population to participate in
    the Project, and assessed that the acceptance by the population of the potential list of sub-
    projects was positive. The SA found that the social risks associated with the Project were
    very low to moderate and would be mitigated through the participatory aspect of the Project.
    A review of 15 projects under cycle 1 found that public consultation was conducted for only
    3 projects. Following the review, the project team focused on improving the consultation
    process and indicated that municipalities embraced the process under cycle 2.

2.4 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

69. Financial and Institutional. The Project established a state of the art new formula defined via
    detailed data analysis and regression modeling that reflects municipal circumstances, while
    introducing a transparent equalization mechanism. The Government increased transfers to
    municipalities by about 65% in 2014 and partially used the transfer formula agreed (the
    incentive/performance part was not used). The formula is divided as follows: 60% of funds
    based on needs (population, area, etc.), 20% based on performance, and 20% is gap filling.
    Because the transfers were increased considerably in 2014, the 20% gap filling was not used.

70. The Project has set the stage for a comprehensive reform program based on solid analysis and
    foundation (urban planning, information systems, transfer formula, public participation and
    transparency) on par with tested and modern international experiences. Stakeholders were
    particularly enthusiastic about the institutionalization of the discipline provided by the
    incentive based formula and the adoption of better municipal management (including
    transparency, participation, and project preparation).

71. Staffing and Management. Technical and managerial skills at the CVDB, MOMA and the
    municipalities have been enhanced due to the experiences gained under the Project and on the
    training and practical experiences provided. Municipalities are better informed and have
    improved operations in terms of public consultation, selection, and the design and
    implementation of projects.

72. Operations and Maintenance. The evaluation of project proposals and conditions in the
    municipal compacts require that capacity and financial resources for the operations and
    maintenance of the sub-projects are available at the municipality and that municipal budgets
    include sufficient funds for operations and maintenance. Larger municipalities in Jordan
    often have operations and maintenance departments, while others sub-contract larger O&M
    activities to outside private contractors. Discussions with the CVDB and local authorities
    regarding revenue earning sub-projects indicated that the operator is responsible for the
    operations and maintenance of the assets (largely buildings), but this is an area that requires
    attention. With regard to computerized systems, the CVDB and the municipalities are aware

                                                14
    that fixed asset registers and municipal financial information systems set up under the Project
    will need continuous (annual) updates and require human and financial resources for their
    adequate upkeep and utilization.

73. Monitoring and Evaluation. The Integrated Municipal Finance Information System is yet to
    be completed (with AFD financing) and is expected to generate the municipal monitoring
    indicators. The system is expected to be integrated into the general government financial
    system and be used for monitoring and evaluating municipal performance. The infrastructure
    and services database is implemented in 3 municipalities and the system for monitoring
    installed in MOMA. The database needs to be rolled out to all municipalities and annually
    updated and maintained.

Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

74. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs aims to adhere to and to strengthen the reform program by
    implementing the strategic plans developed under the Project such as restructuring CVDB,
    and implementing the updated urban planning standards, the solid waste strategy, and the
    MFMIS. As such, the strategies and plans developed by consultants will be reviewed to
    ensure their appropriateness in Jordan and are expected to be supported by international
    donors. The Government has further plans to expand and link the MFMIS to other
    government financial systems in order to complete the picture on municipal finance at all
    levels. Continued updating and the roll out (from the 3 pilot municipalities) of the
    Infrastructure and Services information system will also be required. Further action is needed
    to increase awareness of the reform and its benefits at the municipal level. The Government is
    interested in continued dialogue with and support from the financing partners to implement
    the adopted reform in urban planning, solid waste management, installing the MFMIS and
    rolling it to all municipalities while strengthening the use and analysis of data generated.
    Training for national and local level officials also remains a priority. Increasing local
    revenue generation capacities and employment of skilled human resources is necessary to
    maintain the newly developed information systems.

75. The Government is discussing with the Bank, AFD and other financing partners a follow up
    project to RLDP that would build on the achievements and learning of this Project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of Objectives

76. At the time of preparation, the stated Project objective--to promote regionally balanced local
    development--was highly relevant to the strategic development of Jordan and its agreements
    with the Bank as outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy (2006-2010) dated April 6,
    2006. Cluster 2 of the strategy (p. 20-21) clearly outlines the priority of Supporting Local
    Development through Increased Access to Services and Economic Opportunities with the
    objective to support the Government’s aim of achieving regionally balanced and equitable
    growth. This ICR, however, argues that the Project Objective in the PAD and the legal
    agreement is misstated to align completely with the higher level objective of the CAS. The
    Project’s intended objectives are to improve local government performance and equity in the
    distribution of fiscal transfers among municipalities. The Government’s strategy includes: (i)
    promoting decentralization, with locally elected councils to foster local development


                                                15
    initiatives closer to the citizens; and (ii) strengthening municipalities by developing sound
    budgeting, investment and physical planning, and financial management capacities.

77. The implicit Project objectives continue to be highly relevant at project completion as
    outlined in the current Country Assistance Strategy (2012-2016) dated February 1, 2012 (P.
    15-16), which recognizes that stronger local governance and greater responsiveness to citizen
    needs can help address Jordan’s regional disparities and reduce pockets of poverty. The
    strategy encourages moving resources and responsibilities for service delivery to local
    Governments and supporting community-driven development. Pillar III: Enhance Inclusion
    through Social Protection and Local Development (p 30-31) includes a specific results area to
    “Pursue local development and address poverty pockets.” This is in line with the
    government’s objectives outlined in the Executive Development Program 2011-2013 to
    promote local development to achieve a high level of developmental balance between
    governorates, protect the middle class, reduce poverty and reduce unemployment. The
    Government continues to recognize the need to strengthen capacity at the local level to
    assume greater responsibilities for administration and service delivery and to expand services
    to unreached populations.

Relevance of Design and Implementation

78. The Project design is substantially relevant to the implicit Project objectives. The Project
    components focus on strengthening national institutions involved in the municipal sector,
    improving municipal infrastructure, and improving municipal capacity. One component
    focuses on regional development (which was later changed to local economic development).
    The components include important elements to improve municipal performance and
    intergovernmental fiscal reforms in pursuit of a higher objective to increase balanced
    development in a country where economic development is highly concentrated in the capital
    and few larger cities. These elements include the introduction of modern urban planning
    standards and guidelines, improved financial management and fiscal oversight, as well as
    training. However the human and financial resources were too limited to tackle multiple
    complex reforms (financial management, urban planning and institutional reform). Given
    these limitations, the project should have focused on a more limited set of activities to ensure
    greater impact or taken an incremental pace towards reform.

79. Implementation was relevant in that it involved and addressed national and local stakeholders
    responsible for municipal reform in order to ensure coordination and ownership. This was a
    challenging task for the main implementing institution (MOMA) which had limited capacity
    and mandate for leading core reform efforts. The Project implementation then became a
    learning-by-doing capacity building exercise which taxed MOMA’s capacities and caused
    delays. This is a shortcoming in the design/implementation of the Project.

80. With regard to implementation of the investment component, cycle 2 of Component 2 shifted
    the focus from public infrastructure services to revenue earning investments in commercially
    oriented activities in qualifying municipalities. Investing in commercial activities by
    municipalities is a common practice in Jordan where municipalities provide the infrastructure
    (including commercial and residential buildings, tourist accommodations) to the private
    sector in return for rents and fees under a public private partnership arrangement – as a
    measure to increase revenues. However, these activities do not necessarily improve
    municipal management or provide increased access to services, may crowd out the private
    sector, and are not in line with modern international best practices. Local governments can


                                                16
    provide an enabling environment and incentives for the private sector to undertake
    commercial activities.

Achievement of Project Development Objectives

81. This section uses the harmonized methodology to evaluate the outcomes of the Project as
    designed and achieved prior to and post restructuring, weighted by disbursements. The
    Project Development Objectives used is from the Loan Agreement (p. 5): “to assist the
    Borrower in promoting regionally balanced local development through municipalities and
    other ancillary support mechanisms.”

82. Prior to restructuring, the key outcome indicators that could be evaluated at the end of the
    Project are:

       % of fiscal transfers proportionally allocated to poorer municipalities. This indicator was
        dropped. Baseline and target indicators were not determined or collected. Aggregate
        governorate data provided by the Borrower (Annex 8) indicates that in 2014:
        (a) Of the 5 governorates where household income is above the national average – i.e.
        richer (excluding Greater Amman), 3 received less per capita transfers than the national
        average in 2014, and 4 will receive less in 2015 vs. 1 governorate in 2009. i.e. a good
        trend;
        (b) Of the 7 governorates where household income is below the national average – i.e.
        poorer, 6 received more per capita transfers than the national average in 2014, which is
        similar to 2009. In 2015, 5 governorates will receive per capita transfers more than the
        national average.
        (c) The percentage increases in the transfers (by average household income) gives a
        mixed picture. Most municipalities received increases above the national average. The
        data is skewed by municipalities in the Amman Governorate that received lower
        increases.

The Project team indicated that 37 out of 46 poorer municipalities received higher transfers than
the average increase in the pool. Overall, the Government of Jordan is initiating the process of
improving fiscal transfers to poor municipalities through the equity transfers.

           Cumulative % increase in resource transfers to municipalities other than Amman over
        the 5-year Project. The targeted increase was set at 10%. Annex 8 shows that the total
        transfer pool was increased by 60% between 2009 and 2014. This indicator was over
        achieved with delays.

          Decrease in municipal financial distress as measured by the % of municipalities
        removed from troubled status (deficit >20%). This indicator was dropped and no data is
        collected or monitored. The Government indicated that the formula is designed to
        remove deficits.

          % of municipalities having a total variation between forecast and actual budget
        exceeding 15% of two prior years – to reach 10% of all municipalities. This indicator
        was dropped. No data is collected or monitored. The Government indicated that the
        formula is designed to remove deficits. No specific conclusion can be drawn.

After the restructuring, the key outcome indicators are:


                                                17
       Performance Block Grants formula was adopted by MOMA and applied in the second
        cycle. Achieved.
       Equalization Transfer Formula adopted by the Cabinet. Achieved.

Outputs:

Component 1:
    Joint MOMA and MOF report on resource transfer pool prepared and published on an
      annual basis. Partially achieved.
    Report on Jordan Municipal Indicators generated and published on annual basis.
      Ongoing.
    MOMA adopts urban planning standards. Partially achieved/ongoing.
    CVDB provided with guidance on future operations. Partially achieved/ongoing.

Component 2:
    All municipalities that obtained performance based grants sign municipal compacts.
    52 of 91 municipalities received grants based on performance.
    Cycle 1 Projects: 15 paving roads, 15 new roads, 8 curbs and sidewalks, 3 surface
      drainage, 8 parks, and 21 commercial roads. Cycle 2: revenue earning projects in 50
      municipalities; infrastructure projects in 41 municipalities. Project: 50 compactors, 4485
      containers, 2985 lighting units, 4 septic tanks.

Component 3:
    Training: 5 workshops on urban planning and municipal finance delivered vs. 4 planned.

Component 4:
    Strategy on local development adopted by MOMA. Achieved.
    4 City Development Strategies completed vs. 8 planned.

83. Prior to Restructuring. The importance of the establishment and implementation of the
    equalization transfer formula and the relative achievement of the first two indicators in 2014,
    is recognized as substantial. However, the lack of data on the other indicators that were
    dropped, and the delayed implementation lead to a modest rating.

84. After Restructuring. The new indicators (adoption of two formulas) were not sufficiently
    robust to reflect the Project objective. The dilution of the outputs (CVDB restructuring) and
    mixed record on other outputs (e.g. adoption of urban planning) are shortcomings in
    achieving the Project Objectives. This leads to a modest rating on efficacy.

85. The overall rating for efficacy of the Project is Modest.

3.2 Efficiency

86. At appraisal, more than 80 percent of project financing was devoted to demand driven
    infrastructure sub-projects. Sub-projects were not fully identified. A sample of projects with
    a total value of about 10% of component 2 costs were identified and assessed. Two types of
    projects were identified: (a) social infrastructure and goods for the provision of municipal
    services – which were to be subjected to cost effectiveness analysis; and (b) revenue
    generating assets – which were to be subjected to cost benefit analysis. One revenue earning

                                                 18
     project was assessed with a financial rate of return of 8%. Examples of infrastructure
     projects (roads, solid waste equipment units, lighting units) were given with reference unit
     costs. No overall rate of return is provided. During implementation, similar methodologies
     were applied in the feasibility studies to assess the economic evaluation of sub-projects.

87. Component 2 which is the investment component of the Project is demand driven. The total
    cost of sub-projects undertaken is US$46.6 million (including AFD and municipal
    contributions) according to data provided by CVDB or about 89% of total project costs.
    Component 2 included 2 types of investment:

1)    Municipal Infrastructure. The total cost of these investments in Cycle 1 amounted to
     US$6,391,800 (including AFD and municipal funds) and comprise of: (a) road paving, (b)
     surface drainage, (c) new roads, (d) curbs and sidewalks, (e) compactors, (f) containers, (g)
     lighting units, (h) septic tanks.

88. As shown in the table below, and based on the information collected during the ICR technical
    mission, a kilometer of road was opened during Cycle 1 in 2009 and 2010 at a unit cost
    average of 58,100/km, while a road was asphalted during the same period at a unit cost
    average of $61,000/km which is well below the unit costs of similar works in Jordan (US$
    177,500/km and US$150,000/km). The unit cost of rehabilitating a kilometer of a storm
    water drain was US$168,800/km compared to similar projects in Jordan (US$225,000/km).
    The figures compare favorably with costs in other countries as provided by the same
    technical mission, but raise concerns as to the quality of the roads and the need for O&M
    expenditures in the future.

Comparison of unit costs of project outputs by country
Output for WB                                 Jordan              West    Bank Yemen
RLDP (USD)                     RLDP(USD) (USD)                    Gaza (USD)   (USD)

Road opening/km:                  58,100          177,500         242,560           162,400

Road Asphalting:                  61,000          150,000         -                 -

Drainage/km:                      168,800         225,000         155,360           -


89. For five roads opened in Cycle 2 Part 2 (Lagging Municipalities) for which documents were
    reviewed (35.9 kms), the average cost for a kilometer in 2013 and 2014 was at $220,000/km.
    This would bring the average cost of opening a road (over the project period) to
    US$$113,825 remaining below the comparator averages.

         Equipment comparison of unit costs
         Item                         Estimated Price (JD)            Actual Price (JD)
         Compactors                   80,000                          51,000
         Containers                   175                             219
         Lighting Units                38.5                           42.75
         Septic Tanks                  80,000                         67,000

     2) Revenue generating commercial investments, including commercial buildings, bus
        depots, parks, etc. According to discussions, in most cases, the municipality provides the

                                                19
        infrastructure for such investments including the completed buildings, and rents them out
        to the private sector or enters into a partnership with the private sector to operate facilities
        such as the hotels or restaurants. The municipality enters into such arrangements through
        a bidding process, setting a minimum acceptable return. Information was collected and
        provided by the CVDB on capital costs, and annual revenues of 86 sub-projects of which
        37 were rented. Total cost of revenue earning sub-projects was JD20.6 million (45% of
        total project cost), of which JD7.3 million (20% of total project cost) was the cost of the
        rented sub-projects yielding an annual revenue of JD316,000 and a simple payback
        period of 23 years. This cash flow yields a negative NPV and an IRR of 4.3% at a 10%
        discount rate. This is the yield to the municipality which is not responsible for the
        operations and maintenance of the sub-projects. Including operational costs yields an
        even lower economic and financial rate of return for Jordan.

90. The closing date of the project was extended 3 times from the original closing date of
    December 31, 2011 till December 31, 2014 for a total of 3 years.

91. Efficiency of the Project is rated Modest.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

92. The Jordan Regional and Local Development Project is a high risk/high return Project.
The Project objective continues to be highly relevant in Jordan’s economic and social
development agenda and to the Bank-Government partnership strategy. The design of the Project
is substantially relevant and addressed reform aspects in the national agencies responsible for
overseeing the local government sector as well as improvements in local government
management and service delivery. Efficacy is rated modest before and after restructuring, while
recognizing the importance of instituting and implementing a predictable equity and performance
based formula in the intergovernmental fiscal transfer system. Efficiency is rated modest. Based
on this analysis, the Project outcome is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
93. The Project is concerned with poverty in that it addresses the higher level objective of
    regionally balanced growth and providing equitable transfers based on needs as well as
    performance. The project initiated the process of community participation and municipal
    transparency. Upgraded roads connect communities and provide a safer environment. For
    example, parks (in Zarqa) have contributed to the change in the character of the neighborhood
    from one of vandalism and violence among the youth to a family friendly and safe
    atmosphere. Policy discussions amongst development partners led to the adoption of
    improved and modern municipal and decentralization laws in Jordan to more effectively
    manage regional development in the country.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
94. The Project’s aim is to strengthen the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, the Ministry of Planning
    and International Cooperation, the Cities and Villages Development Bank and the
    Municipalities in Jordan. The most important success of the Project is in institutionalizing a
    rules based approach with focus on equity and performance to intergovernmental transfers.
    The Project initiated processes to develop and institute databases to better monitor municipal
    performance for further rollout, studies to restructure the CVDB, improve financial and
    project preparation and implementation in municipalities, fostered community participation.

                                                  20
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

95. The Project shifted emphasis from public infrastructure services in Cycle 1 to commercial
    investments in Cycle 2 as the preferred sub-projects (for the better performing municipalities)
    to receive public grants. Municipalities see this as a means to raise revenues. However, such
    a shift could undermine the private sector. This approach is not in line with best modern
    practices and is likely to distract the attentions and resources of municipalities from providing
    basic services to their residents. Where beneficial, public-private partnerships can be
    considered with full attention to responsibilities for operations and maintenance of the
    facilities and to appropriate returns.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

96. Political/Government Ownership. The overall political situation in Jordan is stable and there
    is government commitment to the reform local governments and transforming additional
    funds and responsibilities to them as shown by increasing transfers in 2014 by about 65%.
    The project showed that the Government is slow to take decisions, largely due to changes at
    higher levels. Reversal of the municipal reform strategy, particularly the transfer formula, is
    unlikely. The risk of the Government not continuing with the more detailed reforms to
    support the equitable municipal reform (e.g. urban planning standards, CVDB reform and
    Integrated Municipal Financial Information System) is substantial due to the need for
    technical support for the implementation and upgrading.

97. Technical and Financial. The risk of the majority of municipalities not being able to update
    the systems developed under the project (e.g. municipal finance and asset registration) is
    substantial due to tight resources and need for planning and coordination.

98. The overall risk to development outcome of the Project is therefore substantial because
    municipal reform is a long-term process with many requirements and needs to be sustained in
    phases. The overall risk is moderated by the continued discussions between the financing
    partners and the Government on a follow-up operation to continue the support and to sustain
    the outcomes reached under the RLDP.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

99. The Bank’s performance at entry is moderately satisfactory. The Project was prepared with
    Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD) in accordance with analytical work on the
    municipal sector in Jordan, and was firmly anchored in the Bank’s Country Assistance
    Strategy for Jordan and with the Government’s program in the sector. Implementation
    arrangements as designed were in accordance with the responsibilities of the Government
    agencies, and were later changed to adjust for changes in the Government. The Project
    satisfied all fiduciary and safeguard requirements. The investment component was demand
    driven, and the PAD provided guidance on how to conduct economic and financial analysis in
    feasibility studies to select sub-projects. The Bank engaged the Government in the
    discussions and identified the Project implementation agencies to be those involved in the
    municipal sectors. However, the Project preparation shortcoming is in the design that was

                                                 21
    substantially complex and demanding on diverse fronts (fiscal transfers, urban planning,
    CVDB reform, integrated municipal information systems, etc.). Implementation was set in an
    environment of limited capacity and mandate to lead the effort. Monitoring and evaluation as
    well as risk assessments were not sufficiently robust to reflect available information and the
    project environment.

(b) Quality of Supervision

100.     The Bank’s performance during supervision is moderately unsatisfactory. All supervision
    missions took place jointly with AFD and were held regularly twice a year with shorter
    specific follow up missions when necessary. The missions were well staffed with expertise to
    cover intergovernmental finance brought in at critical junctures to provide additional support.
    Environment expertise was brought in regularly, especially after the mid-term review, to hold
    extensive reviews, trainings, and follow up on issues identified in earlier missions. Similarly
    procurement reviews took place regularly and were used to resolve issues, and provide on the
    job training. Particularly after the Mid Term Review, supervision became tighter and geared
    to ensuring achievement of outcomes and adhering to agreed actions. Follow up actions and
    milestones were agreed, and those agreed in previous missions were revisited until final
    resolution. The Bank and AFD team carried out implementation assessment of the
    investment component (2) which covered the review of the technical, financial, economic and
    environmental aspects of the sub-projects. The purpose of these exercises was to improve the
    preparation of future sub-projects and to provide hands-on training for CVDB and municipal
    staff. Supervision reports are candid in identifying problems and assigning responsibilities.
    Ratings were critical of the slow progress and were not upgraded until tangible change took
    place. To ensure continued Government commitment, the Bank team agreed to extend the
    closing date for two years, however it opted to do it in two phases contingent on the
    Government taking agreed actions and reaching specific goals. Country management
    supported the team by raising critical issues to higher levels when the Government showed
    hesitation or delayed actions on reform and when counterpart funding became an issue. The
    Bank’s best efforts, however, could not overcome the (a) complexity of the objectives of the
    Project; and (b) the delays caused by Government’s attention being diverted to emergencies
    such as the influx of refugees.

101.    The major shortcoming that negatively affected the quality of supervision and its
    implication on the Project achievements is that restructuring and the long implementation
    period did not take into account the need to clarify the Project development objectives. Key
    outcome and intermediate indicators were drastically diluted and important indicators were
    dropped and therefore not monitored. The changes to the results framework and indicators
    decreased the capacity to adequately measure and monitor the extent of project achievements
    and outputs.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

102.    The overall Bank performance is moderately unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

103.    The Government’s performance is moderately satisfactory. The many changes in
    government including at the Ministry of Municipal Affairs caused government commitment
    to waver at times until new ministers became familiar with the Project. The Government is

                                                22
    represented by several high level stakeholders including the Ministry of Municipal Affairs,
    the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation, as well as the Ministry of Finance.
    The high level multi-agency stakeholders increased the complexity of the Project and
    contributed to the delays encountered where decisions were needed from high levels. This is
    expected in a Project with important consequences in terms of local and national government
    policies. The Government’s policy of limiting disbursements due to budgetary reasons
    caused delays. Despite the delays, the outcome of this high level interaction increased
    debate, coordination and ownership of the Project and the final decisions.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

104.     The performance of the implementing agencies is moderately satisfactory. The
    implementing agencies are represented by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs (MOMA) and
    within it the Project Management Unit (PMU) and the Cities and Villages Development Bank
    (CVDB). MOMOA took over responsibility soon after Project start up from the Ministry of
    Planning and International Cooperation – following a reorganization of responsibilities in the
    Jordanian Government. Performance of the implementing agencies was impacted by frequent
    changes of the Government including ministers at MOMA. MOMA became the focal point
    for the Project and for coordination among the ministries and the municipalities. MOMA’s
    main responsibilities focused on the reform aspects of the Project, particularly in components
    1 and 4 which focused on reforms to central agencies that oversee the municipal sector.
    Within these responsibilities, MOMA’s ability to influence government speed of decision
    making was limited. The capacity of the PMU to support MOMA in managing the reform
    consultancies was limited and issues were raised with regards to late payments. The Cities
    and Villages Development Bank was responsible for the implementation of components 2
    and 3, in close cooperation with MOMA. CVDB’s performance with respect to its
    responsibilities for procurement, financial management, reporting to AFD and the Bank was
    satisfactory. The Project contributed to enhancing capacities of the implementing agencies as
    evidenced by a review that selected the implementation arrangements of the RLDP for a
    future important Project (Jordan Emergency Social Services Project)

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
105.    The overall rating for the Borrower performance is moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
a. Intergovernmental fiscal reform is a long and complex undertaking that requires strong
leadership and multi-phased support and government continued commitment. A review of the
political economy in such projects would help develop strategies to strengthen the responsible
agencies.
b. Addressing several diverse and complex themes in a limited capacity environment plants
several seeds of reform but can limit the depth of success of each theme. Starting the process of
reform with a simple project with limited but clear objectives could lead to better performance.
c. Restructuring is an opportunity to formally clarify broad project development objectives, and
align them with appropriate monitoring and evaluation frameworks.
d. Demand driven municipal infrastructure and revenue earning sub-projects require clear
definitions so as to enable private sector activities.
e. Pilot database systems need adequate human and financial resources to be rolled out to the
larger intended targets and to be updated with new information regularly for the system to be
useful.
f. Hands-on training provided during implementation (e.g. procurement and environment) help
build knowledge and resolve problems to improve ratings.

                                               23
g. Collaboration with other financing partners strengthens preparation and provides a common
voice to push for relevant reform.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies

106.    The Borrower provided comments on a draft of the ICR which are available in the files.
    The Borrower disagreed with some of the conclusions and analysis of the ICR such as: (a)
    references to limited capacities to implement reform; (b) statements on “partial”
    implementation of the transfer formula – reflecting the need to consider circumstances in the
    country; (c) extent of achievements with regard to CVDB restructuring and adoption of urban
    planning standards among others.

107.    The Borrower provided better data on municipal transfers (Annex 8) to enable the
    analysis on the outcome of the transfers, which was used in the ICR. The Borrower also
    indicated that other indicators were met through the application of the formula (e.g. removal
    of deficits and budget variations). Such statements were referenced in the ICR.


(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Others Partners/Stakeholders




                                               24
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing

                  Original US$'000                               Final Costs US$'000                             % of
                Bank       AFD          GOJ        Total        Bank        AFD         GOJ         Total        Appraisal

Component 1        3,250.0                 500.0      3,750.0      3,775.5                             3,775.5     100.7%
Component 2       16,100.0   19,100.0    3,500.0     38,700.0     15,793.5   19,009.6    11,778.7     46,581.8     120.4%
Component 3        6,400.0                 500.0      6,900.0                 1,991.9                  1,991.9      28.9%
Component 4          650.0                 500.0      1,150.0

Total             26,400.0   19,100.0    5,000.0     50,500.0     19,569.0   21,001.5    11,778.7     52,349.2     103.7%

Source: CVDB procurement database


        Component 4 expenditures were merged with component 1.




                                                      25
Annex 2: Outputs by Component

                                     Output by Component

Component                         Project Output                  Results Framework Output
Component 1: Strengthening
National Level Institutions                                       Equalization and Block
Involved in the Municipal                                         formulas adopted (2013)
Sector and Project
Management Support,                                               Municipal Infrastructure and
Original Cost Estimates:          Municipal Service and           Services Registration System
US$3.75 million (of which         Infrastructure database         piloted in 3 municipalities vs.
US$ 3.25 million from IBRD        developed. Data collection      4 planned.
funds and US$0.50 million         completed in Zarqa, Irbid and
from Government                   Madaba. System installed in     Annual joint MOMA and
Counterpart Funds).               MOMA                            MOF report on resource
Revised Cost Estimates:                                           transfers published (3 Years)
Actual Cost Estimates:
                                                                  MFMIS system designed, to
MOMA Support: Develop                                             be rolled out and installed.
rules-based policies regarding
budget review processes.                                          CVDB restructuring study
                                                                  completed to be reviewed and
Introduce a hard-budget                                           adopted.
constraint for municipalities,
                                  Budget formats unified and      Urban planning standards
Revise the municipal              budgets submitted annually to   updated to be approved.
classification system.            MOMA

Streamline
revenue/expenditure
assignments at local
government level

Update the urban planning
regulations and rationalize
relevant regulatory procedures.
                                  Updated planning standards
Restructure the transfer          and methodologies submitted
formula.                          to Higher Planning Council
                                  (date)

Support the establishment of a    Prime Minister approved
Municipal Sector M&E              formula Decision 25/11/5282
database to include both sector   dated March 3, 2013
and project-specific baseline
indicators and performance        Integrated Municipal
benchmarks.                       Financial Information System
                                  concept developed.
CVDB Support: Restructure         Installation and Roll out to
the board of CVDB and its         municipalities ongoing with

                                               26
oversight arrangement, and          AFD financing.
support the preparation of a
Business Plan.
                                    Study completed and under
Strengthen and develop              review. The study covers all
CVDB’s credit risk analysis         the issues in the original
techniques and develop              indicator.
appropriate analytical tools,
forms, documentation systems
and procedures.
                                    Training of trainer sessions
Support the development of          . Feasibility studies
curriculum, trainer certification   . Technical Audits
and training of trainers at         . Economic and Financial
CVDB. The component                 Assessments
supports the strengthening of       . Environmental Impact
the Planning and Development        Assessments
Department (PDD) already            . Social Impact Assessments
existing within CVDB. This          . Rapid evaluation.
includes the services of
environmental and social
specialists and the upgrading of
the financial and procurement
systems.

Support of Ministry of
Planning and International
Cooperation (MOPIC):
Strengthen project
management capacity and
future capability to lead and
effectively coordinate the
implementation of the national
Local Development Strategy.


Component 2: Municipal
Infrastructure and Services                                          % of approved sub-projects
US$ 38.70 million (of which                                          successfully implemented as
US$ 16.10 million from IBRD                                          targeted.
funds, US$ 19.1 million
equivalent from AFD funds,                                           Fifteen (15) paving of road
and US$3.5 million                                                   projects completed
equivalent from municipality
counterpart funds)                                                   Three (3) surface drainage
                                    Cycle-1: grants: US$14.3 M       projects completed
Introduces a performance-           from IBRD and AFD. 70 sub-
based block grant (PBBG)            projects completed. 72           Fifteen (15) new roads
system to finance sub-projects      municipalities were eligible     projects completed
delivering basic municipal          (the remaining 21
infrastructure and services (e.g.   municipalities benefitted from   Eight (8) curbs and sidewalk

                                                 27
solid waste equipment, water      an EU project). Allocation       projects completed
and wastewater network            based on population. 21
rehabilitation and extension,     projects were revenue earning    Eight (8) Park projects
water catchments systems,         (parks and commercial stores),   completed
roads rehabilitation and          and 41 projects were in
extension, street lighting;       infrastructure investments       Seventy One (71) revenue
retaining walls, etc.) to be      (Roads and drainage). In         earning investments supported
selected on the basis of agreed   addition 22 compactors, 1200
priority criteria.                solid waste containers, and      Fifty (50) compactors
                                  1605 light units were            provided to municipalities
Develop municipal assets that     provided.
provide services while                                             4485 containers provided to
generating revenue streams        Cycle 2 P-1: grants: US$13.4     municipalities
(e.g. vegetable markets, bus      M from IBRD and AFD to 50
transport terminals, parking      top performing municipalities    2985 Lighting units installed.
buildings, tourism facilities,    – allocation based on
etc.).                            performance. All were            4 septic tanks provided
                                  initially for revenue
Support use of municipal asset    generating projects (stores,
management strategies/plans,      apartments, parks), 2 projects
together with methodologies       were converted to providing
for participatory planning,       compactors.
budgeting and implementation
at local level - codified by a    Cycle 2 P-2: grants: US$5.3
formal agreement in the form      M from IBRD and AFD to 41
of Municipal Compact.             municipalities that did not
                                  qualify PBBG C-2 P-1. 28
                                  compactors, 4 septic tanks,
                                  3285 solid waste containers,
                                  1380 light units.


Component 3: Municipal                                             Number of workshops for
Capacity Building, US$6.90,                                        municipal technical staff:
(of which (US$ 6.40 million
equivalent from AFD funds,                                         Urban Planning 3 vs. 2
and US$ 0.50 million from                                          planned
Government Counterpart                                             Municipal finance 2 vs. 2
funds)                                                             planned.

Strengthen municipalities to
improve the delivery of
municipal services

Provide technical training to:

Strengthen municipal
budgeting, revenue generation,
asset management, urban           Municipal budget formats
planning, human resource          unified; urban planning
management, investment            standards at national level

                                                28
project analysis and feasibility   developed. CVDB provided
study preparation.                 assistance to develop projects.
                                   Project preparation and
Develop and pilot mechanism        implementation reviews
for participatory governance.      initiated with municipalities to
                                   learn from experience.
(targeting three main areas of
municipal management): (1)         Public participation in
Municipal Financial                selection of sub-projects a
Management and Local               requirement.
Resource Mobilization; (2)
Strategic Urban Planning
Practices and Urban
Environment, and (3)
Customized Municipal
Training and Technical
Assistance focused on
sustainable delivery and
management of municipal
services and participatory
governance

Component 4: Regional
Economic Development               Solid Waste Management
Strategy & Investment              Study Completed
Planning, US$I.15 million, of
which (US$0.65 million from        Local Economic Development
Bank Funds and US$0.50             Study completed.
million from Government
Counterpart funds)

Technical assistance to:

Strengthen regional planning
and to foster effective linkages
and coordination among
municipalities in their
development planning efforts.

Develop options to realign and
improve regional and local
government coordination.

Identify regional competitive
advantages and means of
exploiting them in
environmentally sound and
sustainable ways.




                                                 29
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis

At appraisal, more than 80 percent of project financing was devoted to demand driven
infrastructure sub-projects. Not all sub-projects were identified, and a sample of projects with a
total value of about 10 percent of component 2 costs were identified and assessed. Two types of
projects were identified: (a) social infrastructure and goods for the provision of municipal
services – which were to be subjected to cost effectiveness analysis; and (b) revenue generating
assets – which were to be subjected to cost benefit analysis. The appraisal report explains the two
methodologies as guidance during implementation. One revenue earning project was assessed
with a financial rate of return of 8%. Examples of infrastructure projects (roads, solid waste
equipment units, lighting units) were given with reference unit costs. No overall rate of return is
provided. No economic analysis is undertaken for the reform components of the Project.

During implementation, the same methodologies were applied in the feasibility studies to assess
the economic evaluation of sub-projects. Similar methodologies were also used for the final
efficiency assessments.

Component 2 which is the investment component of the Project is demand driven. The total cost
of sub-projects undertaken is US$46.6 million (including AFD and municipal contributions)
according to data provided by CVDB or about 89% of total project costs were undertaken. A
simplified efficiency analysis is therefore undertaken for this component. Component 2 includes
2 types of investment:

    1.    Municipal Infrastructure. The total cost of these investments in Cycle 1 amount to
         US$6,391,800 (including AFD and municipal funds) and comprise of: (a) road paving,
         (b) new roads, (c) surface drainage (e) compactors, (f) containers, (g) lighting units, (h)
         septic tanks.

As shown in the table below, and based on the information collected during a technical mission, a
kilometer of road was opened during Cycle 1 in 2009 and 2010 at a unit cost average of
58,100/km, while a road was asphalted during the same period at a unit cost average of
$61,000/km which is well below the unit costs of similar works in Jordan (US$ 177,500/km and
US$150,000/km). The unit cost of rehabilitating a kilometer of a storm water drain was
US$168,800/km compared to similar projects in Jordan (US$225,000/km). The figures compare
favorably with costs in other countries as provided by the same technical mission, but raise
concerns as to quality and future O&M costs.

Comparison of unit costs of project outputs by country
Output for WB                                 Jordan                West    Bank Yemen
RLDP (USD)                     RLDP(USD) (USD)                      Gaza (USD)   (USD)

Road opening/km:                  58,100           177,500          242,560           162,400

Road Asphalting:                  61,000           150,000          -                 -

Drainage/km:                       168,800         225,000          155,360           -


As for five roads opened in Cycle 2 Part 2 (Lagging Municipalities) for which documents were
reviewed (35.9 kms), the average cost for a kilometer in 2013 and 2014 was at $220,000/km.


                                                30
This would bring the average cost of opening a road (over the project period) to US$$113,825
remaining below the comparator averages.

         Unit Cost Comparisons for equipment
         Item                       Estimated Price (JD)            Actual Price (JD)
         Compactors                 80,000                          51,000
         Containers                 175                             219
         Lighting Units               38.5                          42.75
         Septic Tanks                 80,000                        67,000

   2. Revenue generating commercial investments, including hotels, shops, apartments, parks,
      etc. The municipality provides the infrastructure for such investments including the
      completed buildings, and rents them out to the private sector or enters into a partnership
      with the private sector to operate facilities such as the hotels or restaurants. The
      municipality enters into such arrangements through a bidding process, setting a minimum
      acceptable return. Information was collected and provided by the CVDB on capital costs,
      and annual revenues of 86 sub-projects of which 37 were rented. Total cost of all sub-
      projects was JD20.6 million, of which JD7.3 million as the cost of the rented sub-projects
      yielding an annual revenue of JD316,000 and a simple payback period of 23 years. This
      cash flow over a 20 year period and recuperating the initial investment at constant costs
      yields a negative NPV and an IRR of 4.3% at a 10% discount rate. This is the yield to the
      municipality which is not responsible for the operations and maintenance of the sub-
      projects. Including operational costs yields an even lower economic and financial rate of
      return for Jordan.

                All
                Comm       Rented     Total           Rented          Reported     Simple

Governorate     Projects   Projects   Costs           Costs           Revenue      Payback


Irbid           16         7          3,428,145      1,504,519       65,452        22.99

AlBalqa         6          1          2,965,272      303,587         13,600        22.32

AlZarqa         12         5          2,847,180      857,091         57,038        15.03

AlTufaila       4          1          913,257        38,668          2,280         16.96

AlAqaba         2          1          865,021        350,795         9,360         37.48

AlKarak         12         7          2,907,999      1,573,669       47,764        32.95

AlMafraq        13         7          1,641,636      984,767         24,600        40.03

Jarash          3          1          976,893        128,948         1,815         71.05

Ajloun          6          2          1,111,238      259,073         28,160        9.20


                                                31
 Madaba        5          2          1,532,546       646,055         42,000       15.38

 Moan          7          3          1,417,247       599,641         24,156       24.82


 Totals        86         37         20,606,434      7,246,813       316,225      22.92


The closing date of the project was extended 3 times from the original closing date of December
31, 2011 till December 31, 2014 for a total of 3 years.




                                              32
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Process
   (a) Task Team Members
                                                                              Responsibility/
Names                            Title                                 Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Awad, Abdallah                   IT Officer
Awwad, George Nasri              NA
Al Said, Ghada                   NA
Bou Jaoude, Robert               Country Manager
Dajani, Ibrahim Khalil           Senior Operations Officer
El Fadel, Mutasem                Consultant
El-Bayya, Majed                  Lead Procurement Specialist
El Daher, Samir                  NA
El Masri, Diana C.               NA
Karam, Stephen George            Program Leader
Fares, Lina                      Senior Procurement Specialist
Kopanyi, Mihaly                  Consultant
Masanque, Josephine              NA
Menon Parameswaran,
                                 Program Leader
Balakrishna
Nitti, Rosanna                   Senior Urban Development Specialist          Task Team Leader
Noisette, Francois               NA
Tahboub, Hiba M. F.              Practice Manager
Sommer, Yarissa Lyngdoh          Urban Development Specialist

Supervision/ICR
Abdallah, Lina                   Urban Specialist
Armaly, Maha                     Consultant
Bhatt, Nina                      Lead Social Development Specialist
Brotsis, Christianna Johnnides   Senior Urban Development Specialist          ICR Team Leader
Dajani, Ibrahim Khalil           Senior Operations Officer
El Masri, Diana C.               Financial Management Specialist
Fares, Lina                      Senior Procurement Specialist
Goga, Soraya                     Lead Urban Specialist
Menon Parameswaran,              Program Leader
Balakrishna
Mazahreh, Jad Raji          Senior Financial Management
                            Specialist
Masanque, Josephine         NA
Nitti, Rosanna              Senior Urban Development Specialist               Task Team Leader
Raghunath, Madhu            Senior Urban Specialist
Reliquet, Chantal           Senior Urban Development Specialist               Task Team Leader
Riachi, Fadi                Consultant
Salah, Hana                 NA
Shaqour, Ghada Abdel Rahman Consultant
Sherwood, Elisabeth         Consultant
Sommer, Yarissa Lyngdoh     Urban Specialist
Vijayaverl, Velaythampillai NA
Ward, Christopher S.        Consultant
Yilmaz, Serdar              Senior Economist

                                                  33
Zelaya, Mario Antonio          Consultant


    (b) Staff time and costs

                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                            USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY04                                                19.11                110549.9
FY05                                                11.73                 57,603.37
FY06                                                37.24                164,393.55
FY07                                                23.74                107083.9
Total:                                              91.82

Supervision/ICR
FY07                                              9.22                     46503.38
FY08                                             23.96                    91,447.02
FY09                                             12.83                   158,206.17
FY10                                             25.64                   144,457.61
FY11                                             23.8                    158,206.17
FY12                                             11.72                   144,457.61
FY13                                             13.95                   112,009.40
FY14                                              7.43                   169,974.31
FY15                                             17.58                    87,601.19
Total:                                          146.13                       992.93




                                               34
Annex 5: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


1.0 Executive Summary

The project meets the Development Objective (PDO) of assisting the Government of Jordan in
promoting regionally balanced local development, primarily through municipalities and other
ancillary support institutions based on the implementation progress.

Overall project cost is estimated at USD50.5 million. Disbursement to date: USD51,795,595.
Total disbarment (90.84%), USD18,517,738 from WB loan (93.59%), USD17,858,059 from
AFD loan (92.52%) USD1,562,762 from AFD grant (40.49 %), USD2,100,000 from government
contribution, and US$7,000,000 from municipal contribution.

The Project successfully completed (100%) of the Performance Based Block Grants Program
(PBBG) Cycle-1 awarding 15 million USD. 70 sub-projects were awarded and completed.
Completed procurement and distribution of Compactors, Solid waste containers, and light units to
the selected municipalities. Successfully completed (98%) PBBG Cycle 2 (part I) program for a
grant amount of 10.7 M JD (about 15.1 M USD) that was awarded to 52 performing
municipalities. Additionally, the project successfully completed (99%) PBBG Cycle 2 (part II)
program awarding 3.68 M JD (about 5.2 M USD) to 41 municipalities that did not qualify for
funds under PBBG Cycle-2 (part I).

The project met the dated covenants:
 Review of fiscal transfer formula to improve equity transfers to disadvantaged municipalities.
   (Approved by PM on 3/3/2013)
 Issuance of a White Paper on Local Development Strategy. (Adopted by MOMA on
   Decembers, 2011)
 The Adoption of new Urban Planning Standards. (It was presented to the higher Planning
   Council who requested an update before they consider an approval).

Key Recommendations:
    RLDP phase II is needed to expand the development cycles and obtain best result for the
      long term sustainability, focusing on long term investment projects.
    Solid Waste Management and infrastructure are the main issues facing the municipalities.
      |These issues must be addressed first before moving into development and income
      generation projects.
    Develop a window to provide financing mechanism for the municipalities. This should be
      based on municipal management and financial capacity.
    Provide sufficient funds for the proposed project after verification of the validity and
      feasibility study.
    Investment project to interact with the local community and provide job opportunities.

2.0 Project Objectives. The development objective of the project is to assist the GoJ in
promoting regionally balanced local development, principally through municipalities and other


                                              35
ancillary support institutions by: (a) improving the equity and adequacy of central-local resource
transfers; (b) restructuring CVDB to improve its efficiency and diversity its products and
services; (c) strengthening municipal financial management, revenue generation and service
delivery capacity; and (d) improving regional planning and inter-municipal coordination to take
advantage of economies of scale and strategic development opportunities.

3.0 Project cost and financing.
Summary of Financier’s Contributions
                      World                            GoJ            Municipal
                       Bank       AFD               Contribution     Contribution        Total
 Component 1            2.86      0.00                                                   2.86
 Component 2           16.49      23.35                                    3.5           43.34
 Component 3            0.00      4.60                                                   4.60
 Component 4            0.65      0.00                                                   0,65
 Total                 20.00      27.95                  1.5               3.5           51.45


4.0 Covenants and Consultancies
        Annual publication of a joint MOMA-MOF report on the resource transfer pool and
          allocation to municipalities, starting from the end of year 2 of project
          implementation: The RLDP team completed the first and second “Jordan Resource
          Transfer Pool and Allocation to Municipalities Bulletin” that were approved by the
          World Bank and circulated to the municipalities. The third bulletin is being finalized
          to be issued by end of March 2015.

           Publication of a report on Jordan Municipal Indicators by the end of year 2 of project
            implementation: The municipal indicators were included in the municipal compact
            for the PBBG cycle 1 and Cycle 2. Additionally, MOMA, CVDB, and municipal
            staff were trained on the indicators.

           Adoption of an Equalization Transfer System by MoMA by Mid-term Review
            (MTR): The Equalization Transfer System will be updated based on recommendation
            form the “Fiscal Economist and Property Tax administration study Advisor” was
            approved by the PM cabinet on March 3, 2013 and applied to the transfer in 2014.

           Adoption of new Urban Planning Standards by MoMA, by MTR: The new Urban
            Planning Standards were developed with help of “Urban Planning and Regulatory
            Framework”. New regulatory framework and Urban Planning standards were
            presented to the Higher Planning Council on first quarter of 2013 that required
            further updates. The standards need to be updated in line with the Jordanian context
            and with the master plans that are being developed.

           Issuance of a White Paper on Local Development Strategy by MTR: The white paper
            was developed with the help of “local Economic Development Strategy, Investment
            Planning & Institutional Development”. The White Paper on Local Development
            Strategy was adopted by MOMA on December 2011



                                               36
           Update of CVDB’s by-laws by MTR: The Bank Management consultancy
            completed all tasks including the recommended update to the CVDB by-laws on
            December 31, 2014. The CVDB board of Directors approved the new strategy and
            recommended updates. PM cabinet approval is required to implement the
            recommendations. The study was sent to the PM cabinet on February 2015.

           Yearly environmental and social audit of sub-project must be carried out starting
            from the end of year one of implementation.
           An environmental and social audit was completed by the Environmental & Social
            Assessment and Audit of Sub-Projects implementation consultancy for the PBBG
            Cycle 1 sub-projects on December 31, 2011. Training was conducted to the
            municipal staff on the audit before and after the implementation of sub-projects in
            cooperation with MOMA and CVDB who continued to perform the audit for all
            projects.

5.0 Project Implementation by Component

5.1 Component A (Strengthening National Level Institutions Involved in the Municipal
Sector and Project Management Support)

Fiscal Economist and Property Tax Administration Study Advisor (RLDP.A.2.2009) the
specific aims of this consultancy is to work with the fiscal equalization commission to help
redesign the fiscal equalization formula to ensure that it achieves its equalization function as
incentives for positive fiscal behavior. Furthermore, the specific aim of this consultant is to
identify where municipalities could improve in their collection of permissible fees and charges,
processes and systems. The assignment was completed successfully and the PM cabinet
approved the new fiscal transfer formula to the municipalities on March, 3, 2013. The new
formula was applied to the 2014 transfer to the municipalities. The consultant advised on local
revenue and tax administration to improve revenue generation at the local level.
Local Economic Development Strategy, Investment Planning & Institutional Development
(RLDP.A.3.2009). The objective is to strengthen MOMA’s capacity to fulfill its mandates in
overseeing and supporting municipalities in their performance of local level responsibilities. This
will be accomplished through: (i) Institutional Strengthening of MOMA on Strategy
Development, Legal and Regulatory Framework; and (ii) Strategic Framework for Municipal-
based Regional Development. The Local Development White Paper was approved by the RLDP
steering committee and by the Minister of MOMA in December 2011.

Urban Planning and Regulatory Framework (RLDP.A.4.2009). The objective is to strengthen
MOMA’s capacity to fulfill its mandate to oversee and support municipalities in their
performance of local-level responsibilities with specific regard to Urban Planning. All
deliverables have been submitted and approved. The consultant conducted an Overview of Urban
Planning Practices and Institutions in Jordan and proposed new Urban Planning Management
Strategy, Development of New Urban Planning Standards and Codes, Building Codes and
Implementation Manuals, including Legal Files for formal approval, Prepare TOR for and
implementation oversight of Sub-component 3-B.
Bank Management Advisor (RLDP.A.5.2009). The objective is to provide technical support to
CVDB to evolve into a viable and sustainable banking institution capable of making
commercially based lending decisions and efficiently providing banking services to


                                                37
municipalities. This study addresses strategic, governance and technical issues, a number of
which were already identified during project preparation and include: Internal Governance, Loan
Management Systems, Lending Appraisal Systems, Internal Financial Management, Organization
Structures, and Portfolio Management. All deliverables have been submitted and approved.
However since this was a time based contract that was modified, the deliverables could not be
implemented. Further studies were needed to refine the output. Consequently the RLDP initiated
the CVDB Restructuring assignment (A.7.2012) to a firm.
National Municipal Solid Waste Management Strategy (A.6.2012). The objective is to
develop a national solid waste management strategy – which was completed.
CVDB restructuring (A.7.2012). The objective is to support CVDB to evolve into a viable and
sustainable banking institution capable of making commercially based lending decisions and
providing banking services to municipalities. This study addresses several technical issues, a
number of which were already identified during project preparation including: Bank Financial
Analysis, Strategic plan, Business Plan, Organization Structure, Human Resources Analysis, and
Governance and Law. Building on the Bank Management Advisor recommendation the firm
submitted all deliverables that were approved. CVDB board of Directors approved the new
strategy that will be presented to the PM cabinet for approval. In the meantime CVDB will work
on implementation of steps to improve its internal structure.
Urban Planning Specialist (A.18.2008). The main objective of the assignment is to support
MOMA/RPD in carrying out the update and reform of the urban planning system in Jordan,
answering to the quickly changing requirements of the country, while building on international
best practice. The consultant provided Advisory and Peer Review Services to the RLDP Director
in MOMA for 3 of the above Consultancies and in particular for:
     1. Urban Planning and Regulatory framework;
     2. Local Economic Development Strategy, Investment Planning & Institutional
        Development;
     3. Municipal Services & Infrastructure (Survey, Baseline and Database);

All deliverables have been submitted and approved. The consultant also worked as a peer
reviewer to the four City Development Strategy consultants. Four city development strategies
were developed for (Mafraq, Zarqa, Karak, and Tafileh).
CVDB completed the purchase of 120 desktops and printer. They were distributed to all 100
LDUs in the municipalities.


5.2 Component "B” (Municipal Infrastructure and Services)

Performance Based Block Grants: PBBG was new to both national level institutions and
municipal participants. CVDB administration of Cycle 1 brought new administrative
responsibilities to MOMA/CVDB staff. It required designing allocation criteria, setting priorities
and establishing performance indicators by which to assess municipal performance. Stewardship
of the PBBG program required MOMA/CVDB to implement application processing procedures,
budgetary systems, implementation schedules, cash management procedures, accounting,
reporting forms and requirements, and performance monitoring. For municipalities, PBBG
introduced basic capacities for identifying, planning and appraising their needs for local
infrastructure investments, and for incorporating economic, social and environmental
considerations into their long term, strategic plans. Municipalities were required to strengthen
internal financial management procedures and reporting standards and to manage debt within
hard budget constraints.


                                                38
ACHIEVEMENTS
   Seventy-two municipalities were funded under a performance-based block grant, a new
     and unique approach to funding municipal investments. Cycle 1 may be viewed as an
     iterative process for MOMA/CVDB and municipalities.
   Sub projects were implemented in a timely fashion and within budget.
   A number of municipalities contributed more than the required 10% match.
   Municipalities went beyond the basic requirement of holding one public hearing and
     often engaged citizens on their needs and priorities in a variety of forums.
   Municipal staffs had a high satisfaction level with the quality and relevancy of the
     technical support provided by the CVDB field engineers.

LIMITATIONS & ISSUES: The impact of Cycle 1 as PERFORMANCE based block grant
was limited by several factors that are described below.

      The decision to fund 72 municipalities on a per capita basis diluted the $15 million
       PBBG funds available thus limiting the potential of the Program to fund substantive
       projects. Funding limitations may not have provided a sufficient incentive for
       municipalities to improve their administrative and financial management practices in
       accordance with PBBG’s performance management objectives.

      The grant allocation to each municipality was made in advance of project proposals being
       submitted. This approach to “putting the cart before the horse” brought forth projects
       built around the grant limitations rather than projects responding to basic and immediate
       priority service and infrastructure needs of municipalities.

      There was pressure to review and approve applications within a short time period.
       CVDB/MOMA kept the preliminary performance indicators simple, and did not have
       sufficient resources to implement a performance measurement system. These preliminary
       indicators were to be reviewed and finalized within 6 months from the signing of the
       Municipal Compact on the basis of the baseline data collected through the Infrastructure
       Asset Inventory and Condition Assessment Survey and the Rapid Municipal Self
       Diagnostic. Municipalities were to “commit themselves to such indicators to be used as
       standard indicators to qualify for Cycle 2 of PBBG program.” Studies were not
       implemented during Cycle 1 due to delays in hiring consultants who would help
       implement these activities.

      The PBBG Advisor’s assignment did not commence until mid-April 2009, one year after
       the beginning of Cycle 1. By this time, municipalities were implementing sub-projects
       and the preliminary list of indicators served as the basis for assessing municipal
       performance. The Advisor reviewed and confirmed the preliminary list of indicators, but
       performance indicators remained as defined in the municipal compacts.

      At end of Cycle 1 performance indicators remained weak which made it difficult to
       assess Cycle 1 performance in terms of administrative, social and financial outputs and
       outcomes. CVDB aims to review municipal performance of the 72 municipalities and
       build a foundation for a stronger performance.


PBBG Cycle 1
WB Funding               $ 6,189,000

                                              39
AFD Funding                $ 8,879,939
Municipal Funding          at least 10% of the sub-projects cost
Target Municipalities      72 municipalities were included in the PBBG Cycle 1 program. The
                           other 21 were excluded because they benefited from other donors
                           programs.

Total Number of Sub-projects: There are 70 (seventy) sub-projects:
       o 15 sub-projects - paving of Roads.
       o 3 sub – projects - surface Drainage.
       o 15 sub-projects - Opening New Roads.
       o 8 sub-projects - Curbs and Sidewalks.
       o 21 sub-projects - Commercial Stores.
       o 8 sub-projects - Parks.


PBBG Cycle 2
IMPLICATIONS of CYCLE 1: Cycle 2 was more sophisticated in its design and more
demanding towards the performance of municipalities. Cycle 2 introduces enhanced selection
criteria and performance indicators that strengthen municipal projects and performance. Using a
“carrot and stick” approach, PBBG rewarded municipalities that present carefully crafted high
impact projects and are committed to strengthening their financial and management practices.
The selection criteria emphasized funding of projects that have a substantive economic
development and revenue generating impact on the local economy, alleviating poverty and
creating jobs, and raising municipal own source revenue while recognizing the needs and
capacities of small, less sophisticated and financially viable, poor underserved municipalities.
New selection criteria encouraged inter-local cooperation to foster economic development in a
cost effective way, and fostered municipal commitment through a strong municipal compact that
incorporates specific performance standards tailored to each municipality’s capacities and project.

PBBG Cycle 2 (part I)
WB Funding for qualified municipalities               $ 7,211,000
AFD Funding for qualified municipalities              $ 8,330,061
Municipal Funding                                     at least 10% of the sub-projects cost
Target Municipalities                                 All 93 municipalities were eligible under the
                                                      PBBG Cycle 2 program. 52 municipalities
                                                      qualified for grant after passing the selection
                                                      criteria    and     performance       indicator
                                                      evaluations.
                                                      This is a follow-up to the PBBG cycle 1
                                                      where municipalities where provided grants
                                                      based on performance and selection criteria
                                                      developed by the PBBG advisor.



Sub-project Status                                                                  No.


                                                40
Projects completed                                                             38

Projects awarded with commencement order (80% completed)                       10

Projects changed to compactors                                                 2
   1. Mafraq
   2. Oyoun


TOTAL                                                                          50


PBBG Cycle 2 (part II)
WB Funding for unqualified municipalities          $ 2,700,000
AFD Funding for unqualified municipalities         $ 2,500,000
Municipal Funding                                  at least 10% of the sub-projects cost
Target Municipalities                              All 41 municipalities that did not qualify
                                                   under PBBG Cycle 1 (part I) are qualified
                                                   for grant.


Works Sub-project                                                              No.

AFD Completed                                                                             11

AFD Awarded (95% completed)                                                                1

WB Completed                                                                               8

Total                                                                                     20



Goods Sub-project (100% Completed)                                             No.

Compactors( 4 funded from AFD grant)                                                      28

Septic Tanks                                                                               4

Solid Waste Containers                                                                 3,285

Light Units                                                                            1,380



5.3 Component C (Municipal Capacity Building)
Project Evaluation Training of Trainers (RLDP.B.3.2012). The objective is to provide training
of trainers for MOMA and CVDB on project implementation, feasibility, environmental and



                                             41
social evaluations. The consultancy completed the assignment and submitted all deliverables
including the training of trainers.
Performance based Block Grant Cycle 1 evaluation (RLDP.B.3.2012). The objective is to
evaluate the sub-projects implemented in Cycle 1 of the PBBG program. The consultancy
completed the assignment and submitted all deliverables.
Municipal Service & Infrastructure (Survey, Baseline and Database)(RLDP.C.1.2009) The
assignment is composed of 5 tasks: (1) Municipal Infrastructure Inventory and Condition
Assessment of municipalities targeted by the RLDP; (2) Municipal Fixed Asset Inventory system;
(3) Service Delivery Survey; (4) Municipal Capacity Rapid Self-assessment Diagnostic Survey
and Tools, and (5) MOMA’s Municipal Infrastructure database and M&E. The Database system
was developed an installed in MOMA. Three pilot municipalities (Irbid, Madaba, and Shobak)
were connected to the system and successfully used the system.
Environmental and Social Assessment and Audit of Sub-Projects implementation
(RLDPC.6.2008) The objective is to support CVDB on the Environment & Social Audit of sub –
projects funded in cycle 1 in order address any non-compliance with the EMP. The study includes
capacity building at MOMA, CVDB and municipalities. The consultancy submitted all
deliverables that were approved.
Design, Implementation and Rollout of MFMIS (RLDP.C.7.2009) The aim is the design a
Municipal Financial system procedures and oversee the implementation of MFMIS software after
developing the business procedure and TOR for the system. New financial procedures were
developed and the pilot municipality staff was trained. The overseeing of MFMIS software
installation is pending the start of the installation assignment.
MFMIS Software Installation, Testing and Rollout (RLDP.C.8.2009) aim is to install MFMIS
software is selected pilot municipalities based on the above study. The contract was expected to
be signed by April 1, 2014. MOMA requested that the pilot municipalities be increased from 3 to
8. Negotiation is ongoing on required licenses and costs and terms.
Sr. Training & Development Specialist (RLDP.C.10.2009) The aim is to provide capacity
building to municipal staff. The consultancy was terminated after the consultant completed 80%
of the work under the contract.
Training & Workshops (RLDP.C.11.2009). The Consultancy was canceled.
Performance based Block Grant Advisor (RLDP.C.12.2008). The aim is to assist CVDB to
managing the PPBG cycle 1 and design of Cycle 2. The PBBG advisor was on board after the
start of Cycle 1, and the task was reduced to design of Cycle 2. The advisor developed selection
criteria and performance measures used for selecting municipal projects.

5.4 Component D (Regional Economic Development Strategy & Investment Planning). The
tasks of Competitiveness Assessment & Investments Strategies in 3 Regions consultancy were
merged with the Strategy Development; i.e. component D merged with component A.



6.0 Evaluation of Stakeholder




                                              42
6.1 Ministry of Municipal Affairs (Project Management unit). The PMU satisfactorily
performed its duties throughout implementation. The PMU led the implementation of the project
and coordinated with all stockholders successfully.

6.2 Cities and Village Development Bank. CVDB implemented Component 1 and 3
successfully – with a focus on fiduciary management of the project. Financial records were
properly maintained for all aspects of the project. CVDB conducted the procurement in
accordance with the World Bank procurement guidelines and the GoJ guidelines.


6.3 World Bank and French Development Agency: This was the first World Bank-assisted
municipal development project in Jordan. Prior successful Bank experience in working with
counterpart agencies at a variety of levels provides a foundation. The Bank developed solid
working relationships with other donor co-financiers, notably the AFD, which was vital to the
success of the operation.

6.4 Local Governments. The municipalities implemented the sub-projects successfully. They
selected the project based on public consultation. They successfully followed on the sub-projects
implementations. They conducted social and environmental assessments for all sub-projects.

7.0 Lessons learned and Recommendation
     RLDP targeted a large number of municipalities not at the same level of performance.
        RLDP crafted tools that address all municipalities to encourage them to adhere to the
        discipline and rules-based approach of the performance grant system. Nevertheless,
        individual municipal challenges need to be addressed.
     PBBG program funding limitations may not have provided a sufficient incentive for
        municipalities to substantively improve their administrative and financial management
        practices in accordance with PBBG’s performance management objectives. Grant
        allocations were made in advance of project proposals. Funding should consider high
        impact, revenue producing, and job creation projects as well as infrastructure projects that
        reflect the needs and priorities of the municipalities.
     Public participation did not recommend the best projects in some cases. Some municipal
        project choices were not feasible in term of use or return on investment. Independent
        studies are recommended for infrastructure or income generation project.


8.0 Project Successes
     Development of an Equalization Transfer Formula that was approved by the PM Cabinet
        and applied to the central government transfers in 2014.
     Publication of three joint MOMA-MOF reports on the resource transfer pool.
     Implementation of the PBBG cycle 1 and cycle 2 programs guided by indicators set in
        municipal compact. Introduction of the performance base block grant concept.
        Development of new urban planning standards and recommendation on updating the
        planning law.
     Completion of the CVDB restructuring assignment with the new proposed strategy and
        by-laws sent to the PM Cabinet for approval.
     Environmental audit of the sub-projects.
     Development of a National Solid Waste Management Strategy.


                                                43
      Implementation of City Development Strategies in four municipalities (Mafraq, Zarqa,
       Karak, and Tafileh).
      Implementation of infrastructure projects (roads, drainage, parks and stores).
       Procurement of compactors, solid waste containers, light units (Cycle 1). Implementation
       of 50 investment and 20 infrastructure sub- projects (Cycle 2).
      Conduct Environmental and Social impact assessment and train MOMA, CVDB, and
       municipal staff obtained.
      Projects were selected based on public consultation and municipal needs.

9.0 Project Failures
     Municipal training program was not completed.
     Cycle 1 indicators were general. This was corrected for Cycle 2.
     No baseline data was populated and analyzed for municipalities.
     Financing limitation from loan and government sources
     Project selected based on Public consultation were not all successful especially revenue
        generating project. The public is more concerned about services.

10.0 Recommendation for Future Projects
     Set modest goals and keep the project simple in design, scope and institutional
       arrangements.
     Allocate funds based on clear and simple criteria to assure objective assessment of
       municipal needs and transparency.
     Strengthen the capacity of municipalities to operate and maintain investments by
       improving financial and human resources.
     Continue the use of well-crafted contractual agreements (i.e. municipal compacts and
       clear indicators to be evaluated and followed up)
     Expand the participatory process and train the Local Development Units.
     Provide MOMA,CVDB, PMU, and municipal officials TA and training ranging from
       strategic and project planning, obtaining citizen input, organizing and managing PBBG
       activities and defining, measuring and reporting on performance indicators.
     Use a systematic approach to evaluate the municipal performance which should be
       consistent and allows for a full review.
     Obtain and analyze baseline data before designing or allocating resources.
     Train staff on Solid Waste Management and planning, project management, public
       private partnership, procurement, and financial management.
     Train municipal engineers on follow up, reporting, environmental and social impact.
     Use Training of Trainer for MOMA, CVDB on implementation management and follow-
       up including feasibility study, environmental and social impact assessments.




                                             44
Annex 6: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

No comments were received from AFD.




                                         45
Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents

Supporting Documents

Jordan - Ministry of Municipal Affairs: Regional and Local Development Project: Project
Summary – power point presentation (January 18, 2015)

Jordan - Ministry of Municipal Affairs: Environmental and Social Assessment and Audit of Sub-
project Implementation (December 2011)

Jordan - Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Planning and
International Cooperation, Cities and Villages Development Bank: Joint Municipal Financial
Report 2010-2012, (January 2015)

World Bank (2012). Hashemite kingdom of Jordan options for immediate fiscal adjustment and
longer term consolidation (English)

World Bank (2012) Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan - Development policy review: improving
institutions, fiscal policies and structural reforms for greater growth resilience and sustained job
creation : Synthesis (English)


World Bank (2002) Jordan - Intergovernmental fiscal relations and municipal finance in Jordan
(English)

World Bank (2014) Jordan - Country partnership strategy progress report for the period FY2012-
15 (English)

World Bank (2011) Jordan - Country partnership strategy for the period FY11-FY15 (English)

World Bank (2006) Jordan - Country assistance strategy (English) (FY06-10)

World Bank: Jordan – Project Appraisal Document for the Regional and Local Development
Project (November 21, 2006)

World Bank and AFD: Aide Memoires 2006-2014.

World Bank: Implementation Status Reports 2006-2014




                                                 46
Annex 8 Municipal Transfers


                                             Municipal and Project Performance 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tra                     Tra                     Tra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ns                      ns                      ns 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             per          %          per          %          per          % 
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Trans          capi       incre        capi       incre        capi       incre
                                                                                                                                                                                   Planned                      per           ta         ase          ta         ase          ta         ase 
                                                                                                                                                                                  Transfer                    capita         201        from         201        from         201        from 
                                                                  Transfers (JD)                                        Local Revenue (JD)                                          s (JD)                     2009           3         2009          4         2009          5         2009 
                 
                Populati        Avg. HH 
                on            Income (JD)                                                                                                                                                            
                2014*            2010*                  2009                 2013               2014           2009        2012            2013                   2014            2,015                                                                                                   

                             Sub‐district level                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
   Greater
   Amman
   Municipali   2,302,01                                                                                                                                                                              
   ty              4         11,889                ‐                  ‐                 ‐                         -             -                 -                     -                        ‐                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                 0*                   650,73               1,965,96               1,106,19
   Na'oor        44,602      9,040                 ‐                              ‐    906,100                                0*      3                    7                      6                                 0              0          0%          20          0%          25         22% 

   Um                                                                                                                                                                                           
   Elbasatien    12,040      9,876                 ‐                  ‐                 209,280                   -             -     19,766            363,220   255,496                                           0              0          0%          17          0%          21         22% 

                                                                                                                                                                                                      
   Hosba'n       14,328      8,180                 ‐                  ‐                 380,800                   -             -     30,733               727,234                464,892                           0              0          0%          27          0%          32         22% 
                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                      540,62               1,624,57                                   
   Sahab         58,437      7,336                 ‐                  ‐                  581,400                  -             -     2                    5                      709,793                           0              0          0%          10          0%          12         22% 
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                         1,237,60                                     244,55               2,593,76               1,510,90
   Jizah         38,448      9,857                 ‐                  ‐                      0                    -             -     4                    7                      3                                 0              0          0%          32          0%          39         22% 
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                        1,426,30                                      419,66               2,326,84               1,741,27
   Mwaqqar       39,950      6,559                 ‐                  ‐                      0                    -             -     6                    9                      4                                 0              0          0%          36          0%          44         22% 

                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                            460,17
   Um Al-                                          460,17             570,99                                                          224,72                                                        
   Rasas             9,060   6,941                 4                  3                 765,122   210,194                     4       8                    809,742   934,086                                       51             63         24%          84         66%      103        103% 

                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                            191,04
                                                   213,04             237,08                                                          302,15                                                       
   Amriah            8,452                         5                  6                 317,693   124,208                     5       6                    459,756   387,849                                       25             28         11%          38         49%          46         82% 




                                                                                                                                     47
               2,527,33                                                        5,824,29                                          2,432,9         10,871,1             7,110,48
Amman **          1       8,256           673,219           808,079               5                334,402         651,219         59               10                   9                   38    46    20%     26    ‐33%    32    ‐18% 

                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                   380,80
Salt                                      1,897,6           2,287,2            3,158,51         2,935,63                      2,616,5            5,855,69             3,856,02
Kubrah         128,987    9,324           07                34                     4            9                    0        00                 0                    0                      15    18    21%     24    66%     30    103% 

                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                   323,79
Alshoneh                                  1,256,3           1,546,6            2,072,42         1,821,97                      248,70             2,383,47             2,530,09
Alwasta        45,251     9,324           62                08                     8            6                    6        1                  9                    0                      28    34    23%     46    65%     56    101% 

                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                    1,038,2
                                          1,142,6           1,139,3            1,526,72                                       616,59             1,738,34             1,863,88
Dair Alla --   44,786     9,324           23                64                     8            501,621               99      9                  6                    1                      26    25     0%     34    34%     42     63% 

                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                   1,296,4
Ain                                       1,296,4           1,608,5            2,155,57         2,448,09                      682,51             3,303,76             2,631,59
Albasha ---    85,784     9,324           12                26                     5            0                    12       9                  0                    9                      15    19    24%     25    66%     31    103% 

                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                    6,090,3
                                          552,53             544,46                                                           105,82                                                     
Al-Ardha       12,893     9,324           2                  4                  729,572   98,301                      50      0                  935,346   890,686                           43    42     ‐1%    57    32%     69     61% 

                                                                                                                                                                                        
M'addi                                                                                                             517,72
                                          527,72             642,51                            1,219,82                       225,04             1,149,03             1,051,08
               15,224     9,324           2                  3                 860,955   9                           2        0                  4                    3                      35    42    22%     57    63%     69     99% 

                                                                              
Swaimeh                                                                                                            164,80
                                          196,98             204,49                                                                                                                     
                4,789     9,324           3                  2                 274,015   150,534                     3        50,371            333,291   334,527                            41    43     4%     57    39%     70     70% 

                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                   681,14
                                          691,71             563,91                                                           670,67             1,575,02                                 
Fuhais         15,030     9,324           4                  2                 757,280   786,948                     9        0                  3                    924,513                46    38    ‐18%    50     9%     62     34% 

                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                  400,98
                                          563,95             497,66                                                           128,79                                                     
Mahes          13,750     9,324           6                  7                 666,901   125,128                    9         1                  621,405   814,175                           41    36    ‐12%    49    18%     59     44% 

                                          8,125,9           9,034,7            12,201,9           10,088,0         10,894,       5,345,0         17,895,3             14,896,5
Balqa          366,494    9,324             11                80                  68                 66             320            11               74                   74                  22    25    11%     33    50%     41     83% 

                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                   581,40
                                          3,786,8           4,290,1            5,926,37         14,327,3                      9,803,8            18,526,9             7,235,12
Zarqa          514,649    8,030           95                94                     8            85                   0        43                 73                   2                       7     8    13%     12    56%     14     91% 




                                                                                                                            48
                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                            1,237,6
                                                   2,948,4           3,621,5            4,852,75         4,865,86                      1,826,9            5,243,41             5,924,40
Russeifa     296,192               8,030           77                00                     0            9                    00       24                 7                    0                     10    12    23%     16    65%     20    101% 

                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                             624,46
                                                   635,48             774,85            1,038,29                                       360,78             1,602,69             1,267,59
Bierain--     15,480               8,030           2                  9                     9            206,010               2       8                  6                    0                     41    50    22%     67    63%     82     99% 

                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                            3,586,2
                                                   600,83             724,97                                                           197,55             1,446,37             1,186,08
Dhlail ---    35,955               8,030           1                  6                 971,536   273,552                     51       8                  5                    3                     17    20    21%     27    62%     33     97% 

El-                                                                                    
                                                                                                                            194,79
Hallabat                                           427,54             241,62                                                                                                                     
             7,586                 8,030           6                  1                 323,796   75,104                      6        75,737            457,434   395,301                           56    32    ‐43%    43    ‐24%    52     ‐8% 

                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                             570,68
Hashemiya                                          1,142,2           1,342,9            1,799,52                                       412,13             1,877,17             2,196,91
h             60,230               8,030           39                42                     0            597,640               0       2                  3                    4                     19    22    18%     30    58%     36     92% 

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                            409,61
                                                   487,35             508,32                            1,183,56                       106,07                                                     
Azraq         11,730               8,030           5                  7                 681,149   6                           7        7                  824,591   831,570                          42    43     4%     58    40%     71     71% 

                                                   10,028,           11,504,            15,593,4           21,529,1         7,204,8        12,783,        29,978,6             19,036,9
Zarqa        941,822               8,030            825               418                  28                 26              06            059              59                   79                 11    12    15%     17    55%     20     90% 

                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                            317,69
Madaba                                             1,992,9           2,367,6            3,268,55         2,654,77                      1,395,8            5,142,27             3,990,36
Alkubrah     129,242               6,971           77                75                     8            2                    3        63                 1                    5                     15    18    19%     25    64%     31    100% 

Leb &                                                                                  
                                                                                                                            343,22
Mlaih                                              361,22             425,88                                                                                                                     
              16,945               6,971           6                  7                 570,680   133,844                     6        31,688            701,887   696,705                           21    25    18%     34    58%     41     93% 

Dieban                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                            510,40
Jadeda                                             538,40             633,44                                                                             1,058,17              1,036,24
              15,553               6,971           3                  3                 848,802   79,393                      3        52,432            2                     5                     35    41    18%     55    58%     67     92% 

                                                                                       
                                                                                                                            221,04
Jabal bne                                          484,04             274,24                                                                                                                     
Hamedah        5,160               6,971           2                  0                 367,475   18,623                      2        20,520            286,602   448,626                           94    53    ‐43%    71    ‐24%    87     ‐7% 

                                                   3,376,6           3,701,2            5,055,51           2,886,63         1,392,3        1,500,5        7,188,93             6,171,94
Madaba       166,900               6,971             48                45                  5                  2               64             03              2                    1                  20    22    10%     30    50%     37     83% 




                                                                                                                                      49
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                       906,10
     Irbid                                   5,139,3            6,253,3            8,645,68         20,033,6                      10,404,            26,359,0             10,554,9
     Alkubrah      525,823   8,192           36                 24                     5            99                   0        557                14                   42                    10    12    22%    16    68%    20    105% 

                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                        906,10
                                             1,156,0            1,397,2            1,872,25                                       212,96             2,620,04             2,285,71
     Garb Irbid    56,680    8,192           91                 23                     6            244,928               0       5                  3                    2                     20    25    21%    33    62%    40     98% 

                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                       765,12
     Ramtha                                  1,189,2            1,475,8            1,977,56         2,035,21                      1,003,5            2,904,14             2,414,27
     Jadeda        98,396    8,192           58                 09                     1            6                    2        87                 4                    3                     12    15    24%    20    66%    25    103% 

                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                       317,69
                                             744,43             904,99            1,212,77                                        201,77             1,200,00             1,480,59
     sahel Horan   41,284    8,192           9                  1                     3            258,967               3        8                  6                    4                     18    22    22%    29    63%    36     99% 

                                                                                                                                                                                            
     Khaled                                                                                                            581,40
     Abn                                     646,82             790,24            1,058,91                                                          1,144,51              1,292,75
     Alwaleed      22,979    8,192           9                  1                     0            104,706               0        64,296            9                     2                     28    34    22%    46    64%    56    100% 

                                                                                 
                                                                                                                      461,48
     Alyarmook                               466,48             572,58                                                                                                                      
     Aljadedah     17,695    8,192           2                  1                 767,251   74,349                      2         12,836            774,259   936,685                           26    32    23%    43    64%    53    101% 

                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                        1,237,6
                                             847,75             1,027,1            1,376,40                                       119,54             1,817,06             1,680,36
     Alkfarat      29,305    8,192           4                  81                     7            151,361               00      3                  7                    3                     29    35    21%    47    62%    57     98% 

                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                      356,58
                                             356,58             442,47                                                            102,84                                                     
     Alshoaleh     11,762    8,192           5                  3                 592,907   65,040                      5         3                  654,356   723,840                          30    38    24%    50    66%    62    103% 

                                                                                 
                                                                                                                      1,426,3
                                             485,57             555,58                                                                                                                      
     Alseru        16,039    8,192           2                  1                 744,471   100,732                     00        69,354            830,679   908,874                           30    35    14%    46    53%    57     87% 

                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                        3,539,3
     Mo'ath Abn                              968,69             1,046,4            1,409,27                                       372,41             1,309,03             1,720,48
     Jabal         37,290    8,192           3                  63                     1            608,627               14      2                  5                    6                     26    28     8%    38    45%    46     78%      

                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                       606,43
     Tabaqat                                 737,06             752,60            1,008,47                                                          1,315,38              1,231,17
     Fahl          27,471    8,192           8                  0                     2            75,349                1        73,126            2                     7                     27    27     2%    37    37%    45     67%      

                                                                                                                                                                                          
     Sharhabeel                                                                                                       542,17
     Abn                                     552,17             672,75                                                                                                  1,100,55
     Hasnah        53,974    8,192           3                  0                 901,474   103,229                     3         26,469            961,302   0                                 10    12    22%    17    63%    20     99% 




                                                                                                                                 50
                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                    267,92
Mazar                                    1,363,9            1,545,4            2,070,88                                        323,28             2,803,86            2,528,20
Jadeda        17,445     8,192           89                 57                     7            209,418               0        0                  6                   9                      78    89    13%    119    52%    145     85% 

                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                   736,11
Taybeh                                   751,11             913,35            1,223,88                                         165,44             2,584,51            1,494,15
Jadeda        45,111     8,192           6                  5                     1            186,752               6         9                  0                   5                      17    20    22%     27    63%     33     99% 

                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                   640,55
                                         857,65             794,88            1,068,74                                         150,89             1,331,43            1,304,75
Wastiyyah     38,942     8,192           9                  7                     3            318,372               9         5                  1                   6                      22    20    ‐7%     27    25%     34     52% 

                                                                                                                                                                                        
Dair Abi                                                                                                             209,28
Sa'id                                    1,092,0            1,326,7            1,777,80                                        1,383,0            1,383,04            2,170,40
Jadeda        35,996     8,192           37                 34                     2            723,690                0       41                 1                   1                      30    37    21%     49    63%     60     99% 

                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                   380,80
Rabeat Al                                483,43             575,13                                                                               1,016,17                                 
Koorah        34,112     8,192           7                  7                  791,793   102,889                     0         76,198            4                    966,648                14    17    19%     23    64%     28    100% 

                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                    289,76
                                         842,40             1,026,7            1,375,84                                        141,52             1,299,20            1,679,67
Brkash        56,530     8,192           8                  61                     4            125,526               4        6                  9                   6                      15    18    22%     24    63%     30     99% 

              1,166,83                   18,680,             22,073,           29,876,3           25,522,8         14,170,         14,904,        52,308,0             36,474,0
Irbid            4       8,192            926                 550                 88                 50             739             155              37                   91                 16    19    18%     26    60%     31     95% 

                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                   1,426,3
Mafraq                                   1,815,4            2,252,7            3,110,15         2,365,33                       668,00             3,885,75            3,796,97
Alkubrah      73,751     7,768           61                 83                     0            6                    00        3                  8                   6                      25    31    24%     42    71%     51    109% 

                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                  652,15
Rhab                                     672,15             809,14            1,084,33                                                                               1,323,79
Aljadedah     25,236     7,768           3                  7                     3           128,585               3          68,544            854,663   0                                 27    32    20%     43    61%     52     97% 

                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                   367,47
Bal'ama                                  748,31             928,53            1,244,22                                                           1,542,76             1,518,99
Aljadedah     24,980     7,768           9                  8                     5            167,439               5         58,149            8                    2                      30    37    24%     50    66%     61    103% 

                                                                             
Alza'tary &                                                                                                       335,63
Almanshea                                340,63             416,48                                                                                                                       
h             10,155     7,768           5                  7                 558,086   65,720                      5          56,956            748,691   681,329                           34    41    22%     55    64%     67    100% 

                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                  506,50
Husha                                    506,50             628,52                                                                               1,023,55             1,028,20
Aljadedah     16,538     7,768           1                  3                 842,211   51,861                      1          29,323            9                    0                      31    38    24%     51    66%     62    103% 




                                                                                                                              51
                                                                           
                                                                                                                293,62
                                       308,62             364,38                                                                                                                      
Basleah       5,090    7,768           4                  0                 488,264   19,124                      4         11,123            591,026   596,088                           61    72    18%     96    58%    117     93% 

                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                535,89
                                       839,01             664,94                                                                              1,027,34             1,087,78
Khaldiyah     26,920   7,768           3                  7                 891,019   161,502                     7         77,466            7                    5                      31    25    ‐21%    33     6%     40     30% 

                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                595,93
                                       600,93             739,48                                                                              1,254,56             1,209,72
Serhan        21,010   7,768           1                  6                 990,899   115,155                     1         91,329            2                    3                      29    35    23%     47    65%     58    101% 
Alamer
                                                                                                                                                               
Alhusain                                                                                                        490,47
Ben                                    583,55             608,69                                                                              1,015,93                                 
Abdollah      13,072   7,768           7                  3                 815,640   51,010                      1         43,293            5                    995,761                45    47     4%     62    40%     76     71% 

                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                  636,13
Um aljmal                              636,13             789,39             1,057,77                                                                             1,291,36
Aljadedah     19,863   7,768           1                  3                      4            38,456                1       23,305            159,534   6                                 32    40    24%     53    66%     65    103% 

                                                                           
                                                                                                                369,83
Sabha &                                459,26             458,92                                                                                                                      
Defianeh      12,710   7,768           5                  4                 614,951   32,196                      3         30,927            724,279   750,753                           36    36     0%     48    34%     59     63% 

                                                                           
                                                                                                                315,03
Manshiat                               363,93             390,92                                                                                                                      
Bane Hasan    9,075    7,768           2                  2                 523,830   39,405                      2         39,934            556,967   639,509                           40    43     7%     58    44%     70     76% 

                                                                           
Aum                                                                                                             308,50
Qutain &                               308,50             382,81                                                                                                                      
Makfieah      11,260   7,768           2                  1                 512,960   22,367                      2         14,554            616,190   626,239                           27    34    24%     46    66%     56    103% 

                                                                           
                                                                                                                490,06
Dair Alkahf                            581,24             608,19                                                                                                                      
Aljadedah     9,560    7,768           4                  6                 814,973   21,709                      1         6,937             972,430   994,946                           61    64     5%     85    40%    104     71% 

                                                                           
                                                                                                                399,82
Salhiah &                              399,82             496,07                                                                                                                      
Naifeh        14,463   7,768           7                  4                 664,732   118,833                     7         20,301            846,636   811,527                           28    34    24%     46    66%     56    103% 

                                                                           
                                                                                                                273,12
Bani                                   358,95             338,93                                                                                                                      
Hashem        11,142   7,768           5                  9                 454,174   16,058                      3         27,158            269,458   554,471                           32    30     ‐6%    41    27%     50     54% 

                                                                           
                                                                                                                269,51
                                       319,45             334,37                                                                                                                      
Asfawi        4,769    7,768           7                  7                 449,983   130,838                     6         16,750            281,206   549,354                           67    70     5%     94    41%    115     72% 




                                                                                                                           52
                                                                          
                                                                                                               433,65
Alrwashed                             443,65             538,01                                                                                                                     
Aljadedah    2,648    7,768           0                  2                 724,235   483,125                     0        73,769            356,639   884,169                            168    203    21%    274    63%    334     99% 

                                      10,286,           11,750,            15,842,4           4,028,71         8,699,6        1,357,8        16,727,6             19,340,9
Mafraq      312,242   7,768            157               630                  39                 9               62             21              48                   79                   33     38    14%     51    54%     62     88% 

                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                               2,056,3
Jarash                                1,675,3           2,078,9            2,878,65         2,403,63                      978,11             4,688,59             3,514,36
Alkubrah    76,110    7,917           27                75                     8            5                    73       4                  9                    2                       22     27    24%     38    72%     46    110% 

                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                728,68
                                      778,78             904,14            1,211,54                                       108,08                                 1,479,09
Alm'arad    39,238    7,917           3                  7                     1            146,460               3       8                  486,284   0                                  20     23    16%     31    56%     38     90% 

                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                               456,67
Bab                                   515,17             566,73                                                                             1,011,33                                  
Amman       15,350    7,917           1                  9                 759,421   66,682                      1        39,155            4                     927,127                 34     37    10%     49    47%     60     80% 

                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                620,15
                                      630,15             769,63            1,031,29                                       108,56             1,348,46             1,259,03
alnasim     22,991    7,917           7                  2                     3            61,700                7       1                  5                    6                       27     33    22%     45    64%     55    100% 

                                                                          
                                                                                                               288,76
                                      299,76             358,29                                                                                                                      
Borma       14,169    7,917           3                  4                 480,109   32,312                      3        38,121            577,839   586,133                             21     25    20%     34    60%     41     96% 

                                      3,899,2           4,677,7            6,361,02           2,710,78         4,150,6        1,272,0        8,112,52             7,765,74
Jarash      167,858   7,917             01                87                  2                  9               47             39              1                    8                    23     28    20%     38    63%     46     99% 

                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                               859,74
Ajlun                                 1,310,7           1,607,8            2,219,99         1,282,90                      426,74             1,497,00             2,710,24
Alkubrah    52,706    7,887           53                57                     9            7                    8        1                  5                    9                       25     31    23%     42    69%     51    107% 

                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                610,97
Kufrangeh                             665,97             758,05            1,015,85                                       159,34             1,323,18             1,240,19
Aljadedah   35,050    7,887           1                  0                     7            206,282               1       7                  8                    2                       19     22    14%     29    53%     35     86% 

                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                               487,54
                                      507,75             604,96                                                                             1,042,16                                  
Janed       23,923    7,887           0                  1                 810,638   189,060                     8        45,688            3                     989,653                 21     25    19%     34    60%     41     95% 

                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                               526,14
                                      581,14             652,92                                                                                                 1,068,11
Shafa       22,135    7,887           5                  2                 874,905   69,473                      5        54,311            937,362   2                                   26     29    12%     40    51%     48     84% 




                                                                                                                         53
                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                    586,10
                                           596,10             727,30                                                                                    1,028,94              1,189,89
     Alauion     19,686    7,887           3                  8                 974,661   106,520                     3               46,207            7                     8                     30    37    22%    50    64%    60    100% 

                                           3,661,7              4,351,0            5,896,06           1,854,24              3,070,5                      5,828,66             7,198,10
     Ajloun      153,500   7,887             22                   98                  0                  2                    15      732,293               5                    4                  24    28    19%    38    61%    47     97% 

                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                            209,28
     Karak                                 2,514,0              2,800,6            3,870,28           1,925,60                        1,019,0            5,048,58            4,724,96
     Alkubrah    82,710    9,212           54                   92                     1              4                       0       19                 7                   8                      30    34    11%    47    54%    57     88% 
                                                                                                                                                                                               
     Hazman                                538,58               646,96                                                                                                       1,058,36
     Aiy         12,380    9,212           5                    1                  866,917            45,533              22,779      22,053             22,053              1                      44    52    20%    70    61%    85     97%      

                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                            1,127,9
     Mu'ata &                              1,134,9              1,399,7            1,875,65         1,023,77                          276,09             2,598,13             2,289,86
     Almazar     48,909    9,212           80                   60                     6            4                         80      5                  8                    4                     23    29    23%    38    65%    47    102% 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                     750,42
                                           805,92             931,27            1,247,89                                                                1,096,25              1,523,47
     Shehan      19,180    9,212           5                  7                     7            152,654               5              90,570            2                     4                     42    49    16%    65    55%    79     89% 

                                                                                 
                                                                                                                            287,14
     Talal                                 287,14               356,33                                                                                                                          
     Aljadedah    7,420    9,212           9                    5                 477,484             20,398                  9       18,031            208,394   582,928                           39    48    24%    64    66%    79    103% 
                                                                                 
     Abdulah                               529,79               598,01                                                                                                                           
     Bin Ruaha   15,530    9,212           3                    8                 801,400             24,123              23,042      20,278             746,441   978,376                          34    39    13%    52    51%    63     85% 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                    274,01
     Mu'ab                                 598,96             737,09                                                                                    1,100,13              1,205,81
     Aljadedah   24,031    9,212           5                  8                 987,700   84,491                      5               87,411            7                     6                     25    31    23%    41    65%    50    101% 

                                                                                                                                                                                                
     Ghawr                                                                                                              666,90
     Safi &                                950,09             1,056,0              1,415,11                                                             10,152,4              1,727,62
     Almazra'a   41,380    9,212           5                  71                       7            549,590               1           86,286            39                    2                     23    26    11%    34    49%    42     82% 

                                                                               
                                                                                                                    6,507,7
                                           262,31             313,73                                                                                                                            
     Qatraneh     5,921    9,212           4                  1                 420,396   85,512                      78              29,518            509,810   513,234                           44    53    20%    71    60%    87     96% 

                                                                               
                                                                                                                    135,10
                                           171,27             167,70                                                                                                                             
     Sultani      2,939    9,212           4                  2                 224,720   49,018                      6               3,588              231,649   274,346                          58    57    ‐2%    76    31%    93     60% 

                                           7,793,1              9,007,6            12,187,5           3,960,69              10,004,       1,652,8        21,713,9             14,878,9
     Karak       260,400   9,212             34                   45                  68                 7                   455            49              00                   89                 30    35    16%    47    56%    57     91% 




                                                                                                                                     54
                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                       765,12
Tafela                                1,577,5              1,938,9            2,676,30         1,256,22                          403,79             2,258,33             3,267,32
Alkubrah     58,216   7,615           68                   55                     5            4                         2       2                  1                    3                      27     33    23%      46    70%     56    107% 

                                                                            
Alhareth                                                                                                               9,551,7
Bin Aumair                            396,13               472,39                                                                                                                          
(Bsara )     14,146   7,615           0                    9                 633,005             65,764                  85      44,988            814,045   772,793                            28     33    19%      45    60%     55     95% 
                                                                            
                                      253,18               295,60                                                                                                                          
Qadesiah     9,828    7,615           9                    8                 396,109             22,567                          4,018             440,355   483,583                            26     30    17%      40    56%     49     91% 

                                                                          
                                                                                                                246,20
                                      256,35             305,52                                                                                                                            
Hasa         11,210   7,615           6                  6                 409,399   87,689                       7              16,506            555,578   499,807                            23     27    19%      37    60%     45     95% 

                                      2,483,2              3,012,4            4,114,81           1,432,24              10,563,                      4,068,30             5,023,50
Tafela       93,400   7,615             43                   89                  8                  4                   114      469,304               9                    6                   27     32    21%      44    66%     54    102% 

                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                       1,224,4
                                      976,62             1,136,8              1,576,12         1,691,80                          1,034,1                                1,924,19
Ma'an        35,910   7,588           5                  58                       8            3                         21      00                 809,031   0                                 27     32    16%      44    61%     54     97% 

                                                                          
                                                                                                               368,50
Husanieh                              672,50             457,31                                                                                                                             
Aljadedah    11,518   7,588           4                  0                 612,789   925,280                     4               49,070            754,410   748,113                            58     40    ‐32%     53    ‐9%     65     11% 

                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                               538,33
                                      576,03             668,08                                                                                    1,073,94              1,092,92
Iel Jadeda   9,830    7,588           3                  7                 895,227   41,432                      3               24,373            5                     3                      59     68    16%      91    55%    111     90% 

                                                                          
                                                                                                               269,16
                                      294,16             333,91                                                                                                                            
Alsharah     2,075    7,588           1                  8                 447,483   38,344                      1               9,245             295,749   546,301                           142    161    14%     216    52%    263     86% 

                                                                          
                                                                                                               254,29
                                      310,81             315,52                                                                                                                            
Alashari     9,148    7,588           4                  6                 422,800   52,684                      2               5,014             508,895   516,168                            34     34     2%      46    36%     56     66% 

                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                               589,10
Shobak                                602,10             731,01                                                                  132,07             1,352,45             1,195,86
Aljadedah    4,549    7,588           4                  3                 979,547   206,210                     4               6                  6                    4                     132    161    21%     215    63%    263     99% 

                                                                          
                                                                                                               188,31
                                      255,01             233,59                                                                                                                            
Aljafer      15,013   7,588           6                  0                 313,006   11,413                      6               9,900             398,624   382,128                            17     16     ‐8%     21    23%     25     50% 

Maan         88,043   7,588           3,687,2              3,876,3            5,246,98           2,967,16              3,432,1       1,263,7        5,193,11             6,405,68               42     44     5%      60    42%     73     74% 




                                                                                                                                55
                                                                   57                   03                     0                      6                    31                78                 0                      9


                                                                                                   
   rahma &                                                                                                                              453,75
   qater(                                                      464,75             562,97                                                                                                                                         
   qeriqra)        19,458            8,184                     9                  4                 188,760   36,550                      9                            48,660            941,210   921,043                                       24      29    21%     10    ‐59%     47     98% 

                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                        152,95
   Hud                                                         173,95             189,54                                                                                                                                         
   Aldisah          4,828            8,184                     9                  7                 254,011   58,247                      9                            5,260             305,598   310,104                                       36      39     9%     53     46%     64     78% 

                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                         109,77
   Krekrah &                                                   126,72             136,01                                                                               120,55                                                     
   Finan            1,888            8,184                     4                  5                 182,272   23,713                       0                           9                  188,743   222,523                                      67      72     7%     97     44%    118     76% 

                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      252,59
   Wadi                                                        272,59               313,44                                                                            147,31                                                         
   Araba            2,364            8,184                     5                    0                     420,038               2,995                    5            6                   500,094                512,795                       115      133    15%    178     54%    217     88% 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                               1,038,0              1,201,9              1,045,08                                   969,08            321,79              1,935,64               1,966,46
   Aqaba           28,538           8,184                      37                   75                   1                      121,505   3                           5                   5                      6                               36      42    16%     37      1%     69     89% 

                  6,273,36           8,371.                    73,734,              85,000,              119,245,               77,436,4              75,203,              44,035,        181,821,               146,269,
                      2                76                       280                  000                   562                     38                  055                  566             909                    555                           20      23    15%     30     53%     37     88% 
                        
                  *Source: 
                   Depart
                  ment fo              *Source:
                  Statistic         Department of
                   s (DoS)          Statistics (DoS)
                     and                  2010
                  includin
                  g Syrian 
                  refugees                                                                                         (0)

                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                    3,971,            8,078.                        73,734,              85,000,0               119,245,              77,436,          75,203,            44,035,5               181,821,               146,269,                                                    88
Kingdom without GAMA **             348                 63                          280                  00                     562                   438              055                66                     909                    555              20     23    15%      30    53%      37     % 

                                                                                                                                                                                            

                                                                                                                                                                                            
   Yellow                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
   Municipaliti                                                12,778,              14,259,              19,123,9               4,862,31              19,074,          2,757,9            20,438,8               23,347,1
   es             437,625                                      005                  845                  76                     9                     051              12                 63                     85                              20      23    15%     44    123%     53    172% 

   (23 MUNICIPALITIES)                                                                                                                                                                      

                                                                                                                                                                                            




                                                                                                                                                                      56
** Totals and averages 
are where data is 
available  and without 
GAMA where 
appropriate                                                                                                                                                                           

                                                                                                                                                                                      
Munis in yellow are "poverty pockets" which are 
showing significant improvements                                                                                                                                                      
Munis in blue had deficit in 2013 which was disappeared in 2014 thanks to 
increased fiscal central transfers                                                                                                                                                    
Munis in red show increase in central fiscal transfers and increase in 
own source revenues                                                                                                                                                                   

                                                                                                                                                                                      

                                                                                                                                                                                      

                                                                                Transfers                                                         Local Revenues                                         Planned  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tra            Tra            Tra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ns             ns             ns 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        per      %     per      %     per      % 
                                       avg.                                                                                                                                                                                  Trans      capi   incre   capi   incre   capi   incre
                                      hh                                                                                                                                                                                       per       ta     ase     ta     ase     ta     ase 
               Populati               incom                                                                                                                                                                                  capita     201    from    201    from    201    from 
               on                     e                        2009                 2013                   2014              2009                2012                 2013                 2014                2015           2009       3     2009     4     2009     5     2009 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
               2,527,33                                   673,21               808,07               5,824,29                                651,21               2,432,9            10,871,1            7,110,48
Amman **       1                    8,256                 9                    9                    5                  334,402   9                               59                 10                  9                         38     46     20%     26    ‐33%     32    ‐18%    a 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                          8,125,9              9,034,7              12,201,9           10,088,0             10,894,              5,345,0            17,895,3            14,896,5
Balqa          366,494   9,324                            11                   80                   68                 66                   320                  11                 74                  74                        22     25     11%     33     50%     41     83%    a 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                          10,028,              11,504,              15,593,4           21,529,1             7,204,8              12,783,            29,978,6            19,036,9
Zarqa          941,822   8,030                            825                  418                  28                 26                   06                   059                59                  79                        11     12     15%     17     55%     20     90%    b 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                          3,376,6              3,701,2              5,055,51           2,886,63             1,392,3              1,500,5            7,188,93            6,171,94
Madaba         166,900                6,971               48                   45                   5                  2                    64                   03                 2                   1                         20     22     10%     30     50%     37     83%    b 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
               1,166,83                                   18,680,              22,073,              29,876,3           25,522,8             14,170,              14,904,            52,308,0            36,474,0
Irbid          4                      8,192               926                  550                  88                 50                   739                  155                37                  91                        16     19     18%     26     60%     31     95%    a 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                          10,286,              11,750,              15,842,4           4,028,71             8,699,6              1,357,8            16,727,6            19,340,9
Mafraq         312,242   7,768                            157                  630                  39                 9                    62                   21                 48                  79                        33     38     14%     51     54%     62     88%    b 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                          3,899,2              4,677,7              6,361,02           2,710,78             4,150,6              1,272,0            8,112,52            7,765,74
Jarash         167,858   7,917                            01                   87                   2                  9                    47                   39                 1                   8                         23     28     20%     38     63%     46     99%    b 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                          3,661,7              4,351,0              5,896,06           1,854,24             3,070,5              732,29             5,828,66            7,198,10
Ajloun         153,500   7,887                            22                   98                   0                  2                    15                   3                  5                   4                         24     28     19%     38     61%     47     97%    b 




                                                                                                                                                         57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                         7,793,1           9,007,6            12,187,5           3,960,69            10,004,               1,652,8            21,713,9            14,878,9
Karak         260,400   9,212                            34                45                 68                 7                   455                   49                 00                  89                              30          35          16%       47          56%       57          91%    a 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                         2,483,2           3,012,4            4,114,81           1,432,24            10,563,               469,30             4,068,30            5,023,50
Tafela        93,400               7,615                 43                89                 8                  4                   114                   4                  9                   6                               27          32          21%       44          66%       54         102%    b 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                         3,687,2           3,876,3            5,246,98           2,967,16            3,432,1               1,263,7            5,193,11            6,405,68
Maan          88,043               7,588                 57                03                 0                  6                   31                    78                 0                   9                               42          44           5%       60          42%       73          74%    b 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                         1,038,0           1,201,9            1,045,08                               969,08                321,79             1,935,64            1,966,46
Aqaba         28,538               8,184                 37                75                 1                  121,505   3                               5                  5                   6                               36          42          16%       37           1%       69          89%    a 

                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
              6,273,36                                   73,734,           85,000,            119,245,           77,436,4             75,203,              44,035,            181,821,            146,269,                                                                                        
Kingdom **    2                      8,372               280               000                562                38                   055                  566                909                 555                  20                  23             15%    30             53%    37             88% 
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Kingdom<G     3,971,34                                   73,734,           85,000,            119,245,           77,436,4             75,203,              44,035,            181,821,            146,269,                                                                                        
AMA **        8                      8,079               280               000                562                38                   055                  566                909                 555                  20                  23             15%    30             53%    37             88% 

                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Kingdom<G     3,746,03                                   73,061,           84,191,            113,421,           77,102,0             74,551,              41,602,            170,950,            139,159,
oA            1                    8,079                 061               921                267                36                   836                  607                799                 066                             20          22          15%       30          55%       37          90% 

                                                                                                                                                                                

                                                                                                                                                                                

                                                                            Transfers                                                       Local Revenues                                         Planned  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tra                   Tra                   Tra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ns                    ns                    ns 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           per             %     per             %     per             % 
                                      avg.                                                                                                                                                                               Trans             capi          incre   capi          incre   capi          incre
                                     hh                                                                                                                                                                                    per              ta            ase     ta            ase     ta            ase 
              Populati               incom                                                                                                                                                                               capita            201           from    201           from    201           from 
              on                     e                        2009              2013                 2014               2009               2012                 2013                 2014                2015             2009              3            2009     4            2009     5            2009 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
              1,166,83                                   18,680,           22,073,            29,876,3           25,522,8             14,170,              14,904,            52,308,0            36,474,0
Irbid         4                    8,192                 926               550                88                 50                   739                  155                37                  91                              16          19          18%       26          60%       31          95%    a 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                         8,125,9           9,034,7            12,201,9           10,088,0             10,894,              5,345,0            17,895,3            14,896,5
Balqa         366,494   9,324                            11                80                 68                 66                   320                  11                 74                  74                              22          25          11%       33          50%       41          83%    a 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                         7,793,1           9,007,6            12,187,5           3,960,69             10,004,              1,652,8            21,713,9            14,878,9
Karak         260,400   9,212                            34                45                 68                 7                    455                  49                 00                  89                              30          35          16%       47          56%       57          91%    a 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                         1,038,0           1,201,9            1,045,08                                969,08               321,79             1,935,64            1,966,46
Aqaba         28,538               8,184                 37                75                 1                  121,505   3                               5                  5                   6                               36          42          16%       37           1%       69          89%    a 




                                                                                                                                                      58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
              2,527,33                                   673,21               808,07               5,824,29                                  651,21               2,432,9            10,871,1            7,110,48
Amman **      1                    8,256                 9                    9                    5                  334,402                9                    59                 10                  9                               38          46         20%       26         ‐33%       32         ‐18%    a 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                         10,028,              11,504,              15,593,4           21,529,1               7,204,8              12,783,            29,978,6            19,036,9
Zarqa         941,822   8,030                            825                  418                  28                 26                     06                   059                59                  79                              11          12         15%       17         55%        20          90%    b 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                         3,376,6              3,701,2              5,055,51           2,886,63               1,392,3              1,500,5            7,188,93            6,171,94
Madaba        166,900   6,971                            48                   45                   5                  2                      64                   03                 2                   1                               20          22         10%       30         50%        37          83%    b 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                         3,899,2              4,677,7              6,361,02           2,710,78               4,150,6              1,272,0            8,112,52            7,765,74
Jarash        167,858   7,917                            01                   87                   2                  9                      47                   39                 1                   8                               23          28         20%       38         63%        46          99%    b 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                         3,661,7              4,351,0              5,896,06           1,854,24               3,070,5              732,29             5,828,66            7,198,10
Ajloun        153,500   7,887                            22                   98                   0                  2                      15                   3                  5                   4                               24          28         19%       38         61%        47          97%    b 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                         2,483,2              3,012,4              4,114,81           1,432,24               10,563,              469,30             4,068,30            5,023,50
Tafela        93,400               7,615                 43                   89                   8                  4                      114                  4                  9                   6                               27          32         21%       44         66%        54         102%    b 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                         10,286,              11,750,              15,842,4           4,028,71               8,699,6              1,357,8            16,727,6            19,340,9
Mafraq        312,242   7,768                            157                  630                  39                 9                      62                   21                 48                  79                              33          38         14%       51         54%        62          88%    b 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                         3,687,2              3,876,3              5,246,98           2,967,16               3,432,1              1,263,7            5,193,11            6,405,68
Maan          88,043               7,588                 57                   03                   0                  6                      31                   78                 0                   9                               42          44          5%       60         42%        73          74%    b 

                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
              6,273,36                                   73,734,              85,000,              119,245,           77,436,4               75,203,              44,035,            181,821,            146,269,                                                                                       
Kingdom **    2                      8,372               280                  000                  562                38                     055                  566                909                 555                  20                  23            15%    30            53%     37             88% 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Kingdom<G     3,971,34                                   73,734,              85,000,              119,245,           77,436,4               75,203,              44,035,            181,821,            146,269,                                                                                       
AMA **        8                      8,079               280                  000                  562                38                     055                  566                909                 555                  20                  23            15%    30            53%     37             88% 

                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Kingdom<G     3,746,03                                   73,061,              84,191,              113,421,           77,102,0               74,551,              41,602,            170,950,            139,159,
oA            1                    8,079                 061                  921                  267                36                     836                  607                799                 066                             20          22         15%       30         55%        37          90% 




                                                                                                                                                             59
                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33424
               35°E                                                 36°E                                  37°E                                           38°E                                39°E
  34°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         34°N




                      n
            Se anea
                r
              a
             er
       dit




                                                                                                       JORDAN
 Me




  33°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         33°N
                                       To                                     To
                                      Zefat                                 Damascus
                                    Lake                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                 Tiberias                                                                                                                                                                Baghdad

                                                       Um Qais
                                                           Irbid

                                                    IRBID
                                                    IRBI D                                                                                                        Ar Ruwayshid
                         AJLUN
                                                           Ajlun                 Al Mafrak
                                           River




                    JARASH                                         Jarash                                                                      MAFRAK
                                           n




                                                   Arda                                                            Mahattat al Halif
                                       Jorda




                                                   BALQA                    Az
  32°N
                                              As Salt                                                                                                                                                          32°N
                                                                            Zarka
                                                                    AMMAN                    ZARKA
                                                                                                       Azraq ash
                                                                                                         - -
                                                                                                       Shishan
                                               Madaba
                       To
                   Jerusalem
                                           MADABA                           AMMAN
                                                   Dead
                                                   Sea
                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                     Al Jawf
                                           Al Mazra’ah

                                                                              -
                                                                       Al Qatranah
          To                           Al Karak
       Beersheba
                                              KARAK
                                               --
                                           As Safi
  31°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         31°N
                                                                                                       Ard
                                           TAFILAH                                                               as
                                  At Tafilah                                                                           Sa
                                                                                                                              w
                                     -
                                         Al
                                 Rashadiyah
                                                                                                -
                                                                                               Ba’ir                              aa
                                                                                                                                         n
                               Ash Shawbak
                                                                                          MA'AN
                                    Petra
                                                                      Al Jafr
                                                                                                                                                                     0       0         50 Kilometers
                                                          Ma'an

                                                                                                                                                                     0            25                50 Miles
  30°N                                     Ra’s an Naqb                                                                                                                                                        30°N
                                                                                                                                                           38°E                                  39°E

                      AQABA
                                 Ad Disi

  To
Nuweiba
                                                                                                                                                                         JO R D A N
                               Jabal Ram
               Aqaba           (1,734 m)                                                                                                                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
      aba




                                                                                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
                                                   Al Mudawwarah
 of Aq




                                                                                                                        This map was produced by                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
                To                                                                                                      the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                        World Bank. The boundaries,
               Al B'ir                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS
Gulf




                                                                                                                        colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                        any other information shown
  29°N                                                                                                                  on this map do not imply, on                     MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                        the part of The World Bank
                                                                                 To                                     Group, any judgment on the                       RAILROADS
                                                                                Al B'ir                                 legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                        or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                        acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                        boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
            35°E                                                   36°E                                   37°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                        JANUARY 2005
