Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4523 - NG 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Partnership for Polio Eradication Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 2, 2009 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4523 - NG 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated April 2, 2009, entered into between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF 
NIGERIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for the Original Project 
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and the Association hereby 
agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in the 
Appendix to this Agreement, or in Section 1.02 of the Original Financing 
Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to thirty-
one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 31,800,000) (variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Page  4
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through FMOH in accordance with 
the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  5
3
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Federal Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
The Honorable Minister 
Federal Ministry of Finance 
Ahmadu Bello Way 
Abuja, Nigeria 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Facsimile: 
FEDMINFIN 
   234-9-234 
36 
09 
Abuja 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  6
4
AGREED at Abuja, Federal Republic of Nigeria, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
By  /s/ Mansur Muhtar 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/ Onnu Ruhl 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in its efforts to eradicate 
Poliomyelitis through the provision of oral polio vaccine. 
The Project consists of the Original Project.
 
Page  8
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Original Financing Agreement. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in sub-Schedule 5 of the 
Original Financing Agreement. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of the period covered by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than December 31, 2012. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association, as part of the Project Report, not later than 
45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial report 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Page  9
7
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Financing shall be procured through UNICEF in accordance with the requirements 
set forth or referred to in Section I and in paragraph 3.9 of Section III of the 
Procurement Guidelines. and with the provisions of this Section. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable 
to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures 
as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes]) 
(1)  Goods 
30,800,000 
100% 
TOTAL 
AMOUNT 
30,800,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is April 29, 2012. 
Page  10
8
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each April 1 and October 1: 
 
commencing 1 Oct 2018 to and including 1 April 
2028. 
 
1% 
commencing 1 October 2028 to and including 1 
April 2048. 
 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the 
General Conditions. 
Page  11
9
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006). 
4. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for the 
Partnership for Polio Eradication Project between the Recipient and the 
Association in its own capacity and as administrator of the Polio Eradication Trust 
Fund, dated June 24,2003 as amended to the date of this Agreement (Credit 
No3751 UNI). 
5. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
6. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
 
