Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  12/01/2010 
Report No.:  AC5779
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Original Project ID: P080295 
Original Project Name: Partnership for 
Polio Eradication Project 
Country:  Nigeria 
Project ID:  P124264 
Project Name:  Partnership for Polio Eradication Project - 3rd Additional Financing 
(FY11) 
Task Team Leader:  Dinesh M. Nair 
Estimated Appraisal Date: November 22, 
2010 
Estimated Board Date: January 27, 2011 
Managing Unit:  AFTHE 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Health (100%) 
Theme:  Child health (100%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
60.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The proposed additional financing of US$60 million would retain the objectives and 
implementation procedures of the original project and would be allocated (on a notional 
basis), and as requested by the recipient, as an additional credit to the Federal 
Government.  As such, there are no proposed changes to the project's development 
objectives or to the scope of the project, and IDA funds will continue to be used to 
finance the procurement of OPVs through UNICEF.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project started in 2003 but immunization activities were suspended in late 2003 in 
the Northern part of the country due to rumors that the vaccine contained anti-fertility 
agents. It took years and intensive communication efforts for the program to recover and 
till date the Northern states are lagging behind the rest of the country with respect to 
vaccination coverage.  
 
Page  2
The project has element  of preformance based financing  with a donor-buy-down of the 
credit agreed based performance relating to identified indicators. Performance on these 
indicators , and  thereby eligible for  the buy-down, will be assessed through an 
independent performance audit at the end of the project.  
 
During the last two years, there have been very intensive efforts with extensive 
communication campaigns, a strengthened monitoring system including the use Lot 
Quality Assessment, a well functioning surveillance system, and a number of field 
research activities taking place to identify factors which hamper vaccination coverage. 
The latest efforts include increased coordination between polio campaigns and maternal 
and child health care activities, an increased use of traditional leaders for community 
mobilization as well as engagement of independent field level monitors to ensure that 
more children are reached. A large number of international and national immunization, 
communication and cold storage specialist are deployed in the country with a high 
concentration in the Northern states.  
 
The program has carefully followed the bi-annual recommendations of the international 
Expert Review Committee with regards to type of vaccine to use, frequency of 
immunization rounds, research to be conducted and strategies to be followed to achieve 
the program objectives.  
 
The overall implementation progress has been rated as satisfactory and has complied 
with the legal covenants; there are no outstanding financial management or procurement 
issues and the monitoring and evaluation arrangements for the program are satisfactory. 
There are no unresolved fiduciary, environmental or social issues. The OPV vials are 
environmentally managed acording to WHO and national guidelines.  
 
The proposed additional financing of US$60 million would retain the objectives and 
implementation procedures of the original project and would be allocated, as requested 
by the recipient, as an additional credit to the FGN. As  such, there are no proposed 
changes to the project's development objectives or to the  scope of the project, and IDA 
funds will continue to be used to finance the procurement of oral polio vaccine through 
UNICEF.  
 
The proposed additional financing will also continue to make use of the innovative IDA 
buy-down mechanism. Based on the experience from the current additional financing it is 
suggested that the proposed new buy-down will be: Immunization coverage of 
Supplemental Immunization Activities (SIAs); (Target: At the end of the credit, 
immunization coverage of oral polio vaccine of at least 80 percent is reached in each 
endemic state. (Tool: cluster sample survey according to WHO approved methodology). 
The vaccine arrival indicator is being dropped.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will take place across the country.   
 
Page  3
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Caroline Mary Sage (AFTCS) 
Mr Joseph Ese Akpokodje (AFTEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
N/A   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
N/A   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
N/A   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
N/A   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Page  4
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
N/A   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
N/A 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
N/A 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
N/A 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
N/A 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
N/A 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
N/A 
Page  5
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Dinesh M. Nair 
12/01/2010 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Joseph Ese Akpokodje 
12/01/2010 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Caroline Mary Sage 
12/01/2010 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Eva Jarawan 
12/01/2010 
Comments:  RSA has reviewed and cleared this third AF, PAD-ISDS for disclosure on November 9, 
2010. 
