                                                            CONFORMED COPY



             CREDIT NUMBERS 3751-0-UNI; 3751-1—UNI; 4523-NG & 4858-NG




              Financing Agreement
            (Amending and Restating Original Financing Agreements)


                    (Partnership for Polio Eradication Project)



                                     between



                      FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA



                                       and



                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(acting in its own capacity and as Administrator of the Global Program to Eradicate
                              Poliomyelitis Trust Funds)




                               Dated May 13, 2011
2
              CREDIT NUMBERS 3751-0-UNI; 3751-1—UNI; 4523-NG & 4858-NG

                             FINANCING AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT dated May 13, 2011, entered into between FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (“Recipient?) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION acting in its own capacity and as administrator of the Global Program to
Eradicate Poliomyelitis Trust Funds (“Association?).

         WHEREAS (A) under an agreement, dated June 24, 2003, between
the Recipient and the Association (“Development Credit Agreement?), the Association
agreed to provide the Recipient with a credit (“Original Credit?) in an amount equivalent
to twenty million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,900,000) to
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement (“Original Project?);

        (B)     under an agreement amending the Development Credit Agreement,
dated May 10, 2005, between the Recipient and the Association (“Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement?), the Association agreed to provide the Recipient with
an additional credit (“First Additional Credit?) in an amount equivalent to thirty three
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 33,400,000) to assist in
financing additional activities related to the Original Project;

         (C)    under an agreement, dated April 2, 2009, between the Recipient and the
Association (“Second Additional Credit Financing Agreement?), the Association agreed
to provide the Recipient with a second additional credit (“Second Additional Credit?) in
an amount equivalent to thirty one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 31,800,000) to assist in financing additional activities related to the Original
Project;

        (D) the Recipient has requested the Association to provide additional financial
assistance in support of additional activities related to the Original Project, by making
available to the Recipient a third additional credit (“Third Additional Credit?) in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty nine million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 39,000,000); and

         WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing
to extend such additional assistance to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;

        NOW THEREFORE the Recipient and the Association hereby agree to amend
and restate the agreements referred to in Recitals (A), (B) and (C) (collectively, “Original
Financing Agreements?), with effect as of the Effective Date of this Agreement, to read
as                                                                                  follows:
                                            2




            ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Preamble and Appendix to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to one
        hundred twenty five million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
        125,100,000) (variously, “Credit? and “Financing?), which consists
        of: (a) the Original Credit in various currencies equivalent to twenty million nine
        hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,900,000); (b) the First
        Additional Credit in various currencies equivalent to thirty three million four
        hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 33,400,000); (c) the Second
        Additional Credit in various currencies equivalent to thirty one million eight
        hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 31,800,000); and (d) the Third
        Additional Credit in various currencies equivalent to thirty nine million Special
        Drawing Rights (SDR 39,000,000), to assist in financing the project described in
        Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the
        repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is Dollar.

2.08.   The Association shall:
                                             3




        (a)     as administrator of the GPEP Trust Funds and on behalf of the Recipient,
                pay the Commitment Charge and the Service Charge, as they fall due
                under this Agreement, until the earlier of: (i) the date of the Assignment
                and Release Agreement; or (ii) the Buy-Down Completion Date; and

        (b)     following the Assignment Trigger: (i) acting in its own capacity, assign
                its rights, title and interest in the debt payable by the Recipient under this
                Agreement to the Association as administrator of the GPEP Trust Funds
                in return for receipt of the Repayment Amount; and (ii) as administrator
                of the GPEP Trust Funds, release and discharge the Recipient from its
                payment obligations arising in relation to the debt due under this
                Agreement, and cancel such indebtedness, by concluding an Assignment
                and Release Agreement with the Recipient and the Association in its own
                capacity.

2.09.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement, in the event
        that there are insufficient funds in the GPEP Trust Funds to pay: (a) the
        Commitment Charge and the Service Charge as they fall due under this
        Agreement; or (b) the Repayment Amount due under this Agreement, the
        payments of the Commitment Charge and Service Charge or the Repayment
        Amount pursuant to Section 2.08 of this Agreement shall be limited to the
        amount of funds available in the GPEP Trust Funds for such purpose, and the
        assignment and release of the Recipient’s debt under the Assignment and Release
        Agreement shall be limited to such amount.

                              ARTICLE III — PROJECT

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
        end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through its National Primary Health
        Care Development Agency in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the
        General Conditions.

3.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
        shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

               ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.
                                             4


4.02.   For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
        obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for
        payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this
        Agreement.

                 ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

5.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance.

5.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

        The Honorable Minister
        Federal Ministry of Finance
        Ahmadu Bello Way
        Abuja, Nigeria

        Facsimile: 234 9 6273609

5.03.   The Association’s Address is:

        International Development Association
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable:                   Telex:                   Facsimile:

        INDEVAS                  248423 (MCI)             1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.
                                          5



       AGREED at Abuja, Federal Republic of Nigeria, as of the day and year first
above written.



                      FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA




                      By: /s/ Olusegun O. Aganga

                                                       Authorized Representative




                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                      By: /s/ Onno Ruhl

                                                       Authorized Representative
                                               6


                                       SCHEDULE 1

                                     Project Description

        The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to achieve its goal of
interrupting the transmission of the wild polio virus, and to sustain these efforts
throughout the implementation of the Project through effective oral polio vaccine
coverage of the target population.

Part A:

          Provision of oral polio vaccines to national strategic cold stores in Abuja.

Part B:

       Immunization of children under five years of age using oral polio vaccine under
supplemental immunization activities organized by the National Primary Health Care
Development Agency.

Part C:

         Development of disease surveillance systems to detect cases or outbreaks of
polio, and monitoring and evaluation of supplemental immunization activities.
                                             7


                                   SCHEDULE 2

                                Project Execution

Section I.      Implementation Arrangements

A.      Institutional Arrangements. The Recipient shall maintain:

1.      an inter-agency coordinating committee: (a) consisting inter alia of
        representatives of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, the
        FMOH, the Department for International Development of the United Kingdom,
        the United States Agency for International Development, the Canadian
        International Development Agency, the European Commission, the Bill and
        Melinda Gates Foundation, Rotary International, the United Nations Foundation,
        the Japanese Government, the Christian Association of Nigeria, the International
        Red Cross, Coca-Cola, the World Health Organization, UNICEF and the
        Association; and (b) responsible for coordinating the implementation of the
        Project activities and other related polio eradication activities; and

2.      an expert review committee: (a) consisting of recognized national and
        international experts; and (b) responsible for providing advice to the FMOH and
        the National Primary Health Care Development Agency on strategic direction for
        implementation of the Project.

B.      Anti-Corruption

        The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
        provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Section II.     Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports

1.      The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
        Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General
        Conditions and on the basis of the indicator set forth in paragraph 2 below. Each
        Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be
        furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of the period
        covered by such report.

2.      The performance indicator referred to in paragraph 1 above is that coverage of
        the target population for oral polio vaccines is at least 80% in each endemic state.

3.      For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
        execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
        be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date
                                            8


        for the Second Additional Credit and the Third Additional Credit specified in
        Section IVB.2(b) of this Schedule.

B.      Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1.      The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
        system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General
        Conditions.

2.      With respect to Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall, in accordance with the
        terms of the UNICEF Procurement Agreement:

        (a)                           require UNICEF to maintain a separate ledger
                account in which all receipts and expenditures financed under Part A of
                the Project will be recorded;

        (b)                          require UNICEF to prepare and furnish to the
                Recipient as soon as available, but in any case not later than 60 days after
                the end of each quarter, “utilization? reports prepared in accordance with
                the provisions of the UNICEF Procurement Agreement; and

        (c)                          as soon as possible after their receipt from UNICEF,
                furnish copies of the said reports to the Association.

3.      Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the Recipient
        shall prepare and furnish to the Association, as part of the Project Report, not
        later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited
        financial report for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
        satisfactory to the Association.

4.      The Recipient shall, upon the Association’s request, have the Financial
        Statements for the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section
        4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Such audit of the Financial Statements shall
        cover the period indicated in the Association’s request. The audited Financial
        Statements for such period shall be furnished to the Association not later than the
        date indicated in the Association’s request.

Section III.    Procurement

A.      General

1.      Goods. All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
        of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth
        or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions
        of this Section.
                                           9


2.     Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
       particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
       particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
       Procurement Guidelines.

B.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods. Goods shall be procured from
       UNICEF in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Procurement
       Guidelines and the UNICEF Procurement Agreement.

C.     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions

       Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient,
       the UNICEF Procurement Agreement shall be subject to the Association’s Prior
       Review.

Section IV.    Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing

A.     General

       The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
       the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
       additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient
       (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects? dated May
       2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to
       this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance 100% of Eligible
       Expenditures, consisting of goods (inclusive of Taxes).

B.     Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.     Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
       made:

       (a)     with respect to amounts of the Original Credit, for payments made prior
               to the date of the Development Credit Agreement, except that
               withdrawals of amounts of the Original Credit, in an aggregate amount
               not to exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,090,000, may be made for
               payments prior to this date but on or after September 1, 2003, for
               Eligible Expenditures;

       (b)     with respect to amounts of the First Additional Credit, for payments
               made prior to the date of the Agreement Amending the Development
               Credit Agreement;

       (c)     with respect to amounts of the Second Additional Credit, for payments
               made prior to the date of the Second Additional Credit Financing
               Agreement; and
                                        10


     (d)     with respect to amounts of the Third Additional Credit, for payments
             made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals of
             amounts of the Third Additional Credit, in an aggregate amount not to
             exceed the equivalent of SDR 7,880,000, may be made for payments
             made prior to this date but on or after December 15, 2010, for Eligible
             Expenditures.

2.   The Closing Date is: (a) April 30, 2009 in respect of the Original Credit and the
     First Additional Credit; and (b) April 30, 2012 in respect of the Second
     Additional Credit and the Third Additional Credit.
                                          11



                                     SCHEDULE 3

                                  Repayment Schedule

I.     Repayment of the Original Credit

                                          Principal Amount of the Original Credit
          Date Payment Due
                                                         repayable
                                                (expressed as a percentage)*

On each April 1 and October 1:

commencing October 1, 2013, to and                        1.25%
including April 1, 2023.

commencing October 1, 2023, to and                         2.5%
including April 1, 2038.

II.    Repayment of the First Additional Credit

                                           Principal Amount of the First Additional
           Date Payment Due
                                                      Credit repayable
                                                 (expressed as a percentage)*
 On each April 1 and October 1:
 commencing April 1, 2015, to and                          1.25%
 including October 1, 2024.
 commencing April 1, 2025, to and                           2.5%
 including October 1, 2039.

III.   Repayment of the Second Additional Credit

                                               Principal Amount of the Second
           Date Payment Due
                                                Additional Credit repayable
                                                (expressed as a percentage)*
 On each April 1 and October 1:
 commencing October 1, 2018, to and                          1%
 including April 1, 2028.
 commencing October 1, 2028, to and                          2%
 i l di A il 1, 2048.
                                          12


 including April 1, 2048.

IV.    Repayment of the Third Additional Credit

                                                Principal Amount of the Second
           Date Payment Due                      Additional Credit repayable
                                                 (expressed as a percentage)*
 On each April 1 and October 1:
 commencing April 1, 2021, to and                              1%
 including October 1, 2030.
 commencing April 1, 2031, to and                              2%
 including October 1, 2050.

* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of
the General Conditions.
                                            13



                                     SCHEDULE 4

                     Form of Assignment and Release Agreement

        AGREEMENT, dated __________________, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC
OF NIGERIA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting in its own capacity and as administrator of the
Global Program to Eradicate Poliomyelitis Trust Funds.

        WHEREAS (A) the Recipient has been determined to be eligible for assistance
from the Global Program to Eradicate Poliomyelitis Trust Funds (the Trust Funds) upon
successful completion of the Partnership for Polio Eradication Project (the Project) as
described in Schedule 1 to the Financing Agreement (Amending and Restating the
Original Financing Agreements) between the Recipient and the Association dated
____________________, (the Financing Agreement), through the transfer of the
principal amount of the Credit to the Association as administrator of the Trust Funds;

        (B)     the Association has received a performance audit report from an entity
selected by the Association, stating that the Project has been successfully carried out; and

        (C)      upon payment of the Repayment Amount, the Association is prepared to
transfer its claim for payment under the Financing Agreement to the Association as
administrator of the Trust Funds, following which the Association, as administrator of the
Trust Funds, shall cancel such claims and release and discharge the Recipient from such
debt.

        NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                       ARTICLE I
                                       Definitions

        Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the Financing Agreement, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.

                                      ARTICLE II
                                      Assignment

         Section 2.01. In consideration of the payment of the Repayment Amount of
______________________________ United States Dollars (US$______________),
receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Association hereby transfers, assigns and
sets over the debt due under the Financing Agreement and all the Association’s rights,
title and interest therein to the Association as administrator of the Trust Funds, and its
successors and assigns, to have and to hold, absolutely and forever.
                                              14


        Section 2.02. Notwithstanding the transfer and assignment of the debt due under
the Financing Agreement to the Association as administrator of the Trust Funds, the
Association acknowledges and agrees that the Association as administrator of the Trust
Funds, does not assume and shall not be responsible for any of the liabilities or
obligations of the Association under, or in respect of, the Financing Agreement.

                                     ARTICLE III
                             Representations and Warranties

        Section 3.01. The Association hereby represents and warrants that:

         (a)     it is the sole beneficial owner of the debt due under the Financing
Agreement with good and marketable title thereto free and clear of any liens, mortgages,
security interests, charges, encumbrances or rights of others (except for the rights of the
Association as administrator of the Trust Funds under this Agreement) and is exclusively
entitled to possess and dispose of the debt due under the Financing Agreement in
accordance with this Agreement;

        (b)    it has all necessary power and authority to enter into, execute and deliver
this Agreement and to carry out its obligations hereunder;

        (c)     the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of
the transactions evidenced and contemplated hereby or hereunder have been duly
authorized by all necessary action on its part;

        (d)     this Agreement constitutes its valid and binding agreement and
obligation enforceable and effective in accordance with its terms; and

         (e)      the performance of its obligations under this Agreement does not and
will not conflict with: (i) any applicable law or regulation or any judicial order in effect at
the date hereof; (ii) its constitutive documents; or (iii) any agreement or document to
which it is a party or which is binding on it.

        Section 3.02. The Recipient represents and warrants that:

        (a)    it is indebted to the Association in the principal amount specified in the
Financing Agreement, together with all charges accrued and unpaid thereon;

         (b)     its liabilities in respect of the debt due under the Financing Agreement
are not subject to reduction or diminution in any manner whatsoever including, without
limitation, by way of set-off, compensation, counterclaim, defense, damages or
otherwise; and
                                            15


       (c)       it hereby consents to the transfer and assignment of the debt due under
the Financing Agreement to the Association, as administrator of the Trust Funds,
pursuant to this Agreement.

                                      ARTICLE IV
                                        Release

        Section 4.01. The Association, as administrator of the Trust Funds, having
become the owner under this Agreement of the debt due under the Financing Agreement,
hereby irrevocably and unconditionally releases and forever discharges the Recipient
from any and all liabilities and payment obligations of whatsoever nature, whether
present or future, arising in relation to the debt due under the Financing Agreement, all of
which are hereby irrevocably cancelled.

                                  ARTICLE V
        Enforceability of Agreement; Failure to Exercise Rights; Arbitration

        Section 5.01. The rights and obligations of the Recipient and the Association
under this Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance with their terms
notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision thereof to the contrary.
Neither the Recipient nor the Association shall be entitled in any proceeding under this
Article to assert any claim that any provision of this Agreement is invalid or
unenforceable because of any provision of the Articles of Agreement of the Association.

        Section 5.02. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power or
remedy accruing to either party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair any
such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in
such default. No action of such party in respect of any default, or any acquiescence by it
in any default, shall affect or impair any right, power or remedy of such party in respect
of any other or subsequent default.

        Section 5.03. (a) Any controversy between the parties to this Agreement, and any
claim by either such party against the other party arising under this Agreement which has
not been settled by agreement of the parties shall be submitted to arbitration by an
Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.

        (b)     The parties to such arbitration shall be the Association and the Recipient.

        (c)     The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Association, a second arbitrator shall be
appointed by the Recipient, and the third arbitrator (hereinafter sometimes called the
Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they shall not agree, by the
President of the International Court of Justice or, failing appointment by said President,
by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. If either of the parties shall fail to
appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the Umpire. In case any
                                             16


arbitrator appointed in accordance with this Section shall resign, die or become unable to
act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the same manner as herein prescribed for
the appointment of the original arbitrator, and such successor shall have all the powers
and duties of such original arbitrator.

         (d)      An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon
notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the other party. Such notice shall
contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be submitted to
arbitration, the nature of the relief sought, and the name of the arbitrator appointed by the
party instituting such proceeding. Within thirty days after such notice, the other party
shall notify to the party instituting such proceeding the name of the arbitrator appointed
by such other party.

        (e)     If within sixty (60) days after the notice instituting the arbitration
proceeding, the parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire, either party may request
the appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section.

          (f)  The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be
fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when it
shall sit.

         (g)     The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its
competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the parties
shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral Tribunal shall
be by majority vote.

         (h)     The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to all parties a fair hearing and shall
render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award signed by
a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of such Tribunal. A signed
counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any such award rendered in
accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final and binding upon the parties
to this Agreement. Each party shall abide by and comply with any such award rendered
by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the provisions of this Section.

         (i)      The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators and
such other persons as shall be required for the conduct of the arbitration proceedings. If
the parties shall not agree on such amount before the Arbitral Tribunal shall convene, the
Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be reasonable under the circumstances.
Each party shall each defray its own expenses in the arbitration proceedings. The costs of
the Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between and borne equally by the parties. Any
question concerning the division of the costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for
payment of such costs shall be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.
                                             17


       (j)     The provisions of arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu of
any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to this
Agreement or of any claim by either party against the other party arising hereunder.

         (k)     The Association shall not be entitled to enter judgment against the
Recipient upon the award, to enforce the award against the Recipient by execution or to
pursue any other remedy against the Recipient for the enforcement of the award, except
as such procedure may be available against the Recipient otherwise than by reason of the
provisions of this Section. If, within thirty (30) days after counterparts of the award shall
have been delivered to the parties, the award shall not be complied with by the
Association, the Recipient may take any such action for the enforcement of the award
against the Association.

         (l)     Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered pursuant
to this Section shall be made in the manner provided in Section 6.01 of this Agreement.
The parties to this Agreement waive any and all other requirements for the service of any
such notice or process.

                                      ARTICLE VI
                                      Miscellaneous

        Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
                                              18


           For the Recipient:

                   The Honorable Minister
                   Federal Ministry of Finance
                   Ahmadu Bello Way
                   Abuja, Nigeria

                   Facsimile: 234 9 6273609

           For the Association:

                   International Development Association
                   1818 H Street, N.W.
                   Washington, D.C. 20433
                   United States of America

                   Cable address:         Telex:                Facsimile:

                   INDEVAS                248423 (MCI) or       (202) 477-6391
                   Washington, D.C.        64145 (MCI)

       Section 6.02. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of
which shall be an original.

           Section 6.03. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the
parties.
                                          19


        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in ___________________, ______________________, as of the day and year first
above written.



                       FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA




                       By

                                                             Authorized Representative




                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       (acting in its own capacity and as Administrator of the Global
                       Program to Eradicate Poliomyelitis Trust Funds)




                       By

                                                             Authorized Representative
                                           20


                                      APPENDIX

Section I.      Definitions

1.      “Anti-Corruption Guidelines? means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
        Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
        Credits and Grants?, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in
        Section III of this Appendix.

2.      “Assignment and Release Agreement? means the agreement referred to in
        Section 2.08 of this Agreement, to be entered into between the Recipient and the
        Association (in its own capacity and as administrator of the GPEP Trust Funds)
        in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and substantially in the form
        set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

3.      “Assignment Trigger? means the receipt by the Association of the Performance
        Audit, satisfactory to the Association.

4.      “Buy-Down? means the transfer of the principal amount of the Credit to the
        Association as administrator of the GPEP Trust Funds in accordance with this
        Agreement.

5.      “Buy-Down Completion Date? means the date on which the Buy-Down takes
        place and shall be not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date (or such
        later date as the Association shall establish by notice to the Recipient).

6.      “Category? means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
        this Agreement.

7.      “FMOH? means the Recipient’s Federal Ministry of Health, or any successor
        thereto.

8.      “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association
        General Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 31, 2010, with the
        modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

9.      “Global Program to Eradicate Poliomyelitis Trust Funds? or “GPEP Trust Funds?
        means the trust funds consisting of funds contributed or to be contributed by the
        Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the United Nations Foundation,
        administered by the Association for the purpose of reducing the cost to borrowers
        of credits provided by the Association for polio eradication projects.

10.     “National Primary Health Care Development Agency? means the Recipient’s
        agency established pursuant to the National Primary Health Care Development
        Agency Decree No. 29 of 1992, or any successor thereto.
                                         21


11.   “Performance Audit? means a report to be prepared by an independent auditor
      acceptable to the Association, confirming the successful completion of the
      Project based upon the performance indicator referred to in Section II.A.2 of
      Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

12.   “Procurement Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
      Loans and IDA Credits? published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
      October, 2006 and May 2010.

13.   “Repayment Amount? means the amount which has been calculated by the
      Association, based on prevailing exchange and interest rates on the date of this
      Agreement, as the U.S. Dollar equivalent of the net present value of the principal
      repayments due by the Recipient under Section 2.06 of this Agreement. To
      determine the net present value, the discount rate shall be an SDR-basket rate for
      maturities greater than 8.5 years calculated using the Commercial Interest
      Reference Rates published by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
      Development for the component currencies of the SDR.

14.   “UNICEF? means United Nations Children’s Fund, an international inter-
      governmental organization established by the General Assembly of the United
      Nations by Resolution No. 57(1) of December 11, 1946.

15.   “UNICEF Procurement Agreement? means the Agreement to be entered into
      between the Recipient and UNICEF, in form and substance satisfactory to the
      Association, for the procurement of oral polio vaccine under Part A of the
      Project.

      Section II.     Modifications to the General Conditions

      Section 3.01 (b) of the General Conditions is modified to read as follows:

      “(b)    The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after: (i) the
      date of the Development Credit Agreement with respect to the unwithdrawn
      balance of the Original Credit; (ii) the date of the Agreement Amending
      Development Credit Agreement with respect to the unwithdrawn balance of the
      First Additional Credit; (iii) the date of the Second Additional Credit Financing
      Agreement with respect to the unwithdrawn balance of the Second Additional
      Credit; and (iv) the date of the Financing Agreement (Amending and Restating
      Development Credit Agreement) with respect to the unwithdrwan balance of the
      Third Additional Credit, to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn
      by the Recipient from the Financing Account or cancelled. The Commitment
      Charge shall accrue at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
      accrual date and at such other rate as may be set from time to time thereafter
      pursuant to this Section. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
      from the next Payment Date in that year. The Commitment Charge shall be
                                             22


        payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date. The Commitment
        Charge shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day
        months.?

Section III.    Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines

The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:

1.      Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read
        as follows:

        “… (b) These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be
        imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all
        other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that
        the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as
        a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual
        or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in
        connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.?

2.      Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows:

        “… (a) sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and
        procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an
        individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower,
        individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of
        time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
        financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and
        (iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or
        any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the
        Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in
        corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection
        with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has
        entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has
        declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made
        by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation
        of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a
        determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has
        engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with
        the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.?
                                           23


Footnotes:

       “13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank
       financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the
       Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary
       suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing
       sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the
       Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination
       by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt,
       coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a
       financing made by such financier.?

       “14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national
       government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and
       government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under
       paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph
       1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.?

       “15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the
       purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board
       sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has
       adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing
       debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be
       posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other
       stakeholders.?
