OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 4858-NG
Assignment and Release Agreement
(Buy-Down of IDA Third Additional Credit for the Partnership for Polio Eradication Project)
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(acting in its own capacity and as Administrator of the Global Program to Eradicate Poliomyelitis
Trust Funds)
Dated Seb30,2013


﻿Credit No. 4858-NG
ASSIGNMENT AND RELEASE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated Set      be.b39 2013 between the FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
(the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting
in its own capacity and as administrator of the Global Program to Eradicate Poliomyelitis Trust Funds.
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient has been determined to be eligible for assistance from the Global
Program to Eradicate Poliomyelitis Trust Funds (the Trust Funds) upon successful completion of
activities financed out of Credit No. 4858-NG (the Eligible Buy-Down Credit) under the Partnership for
Polio Eradication Project (the Project), as described in Schedule I to the Financing Agreement
(Amending and Restating the Original Financing Agreements) between the Recipient and the Association
dated May 13, 2011 (the Financing Agreement), through the transfer of the principal amount of the
Eligible Buy-Down Credit to the Association as administrator of the Trust Funds;
(B)    the Association has received a performance audit report from an independent evaluator,
stating that the activities financed out of the Eligible Buy-Down Credit under the Project have been
successfully carried out; and
(C)    upon payment of the amount specified in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the Repayment
Amount), the Association is prepared to transfer its claim for payment in respect of the Eligible Buy-
Down Credit under the Financing Agreement to the Association as administrator of the Trust Funds,
following which the Association, as administrator of the Trust Funds, shall cancel such claims and release
and discharge the Recipient from such debt.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Financing
Agreement, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Assignment
Section 2.01. In consideration of the payment of the Repayment Amount of twenty six million
five hundred sixty seven thousand eight hundred seventeen United States Dollars (US$ 26,567,817),
receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Association hereby transfers, assigns and sets over the debt
due in respect of the Eligible Buy-Down Credit pursuant to the Financing Agreement and all the
Association's rights, title and interest therein to the Association as administrator of the Trust Funds, and
its successors and assigns, to have and to hold, absolutely and forever.
Section 2.02. Notwithstanding the transfer and assignment of the debt due in respect of the
Eligible Buy-Down Credit to the Association as administrator of the Trust Funds, the Association
acknowledges and agrees that the Association as administrator of the Trust Funds, does not assume and


﻿shall not be responsible for any of the liabilities or obligations of the Association in respect of the Eligible
Buy-Down Credit under, or in connection with, the Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Representations and Warranties
Section 3.01. The Association hereby represents and warrants that:
(a)    it is the sole beneficial owner of the debt due in respect of the Eligible Buy-Down Credit
pursuant to the Financing Agreement with good and marketable title thereto free and clear of any liens,
mortgages, security interests, charges, encumbrances or rights of others (except for the rights of the
Association as administrator of the Trust Funds under this Agreement) and is exclusively entitled to
possess and dispose of the said debt in accordance with this Agreement;
(b)    it has all necessary power and authority to enter into, execute and deliver this Agreement
and to carry out its obligations hereunder;
(c)    the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions
evidenced and contemplated hereby or hereunder have been duly authorized by all necessary action on its
part;
(d)    this Agreement constitutes its valid and binding agreement and obligation enforceable
and effective in accordance with its terms; and
(e)    the performance of its obligations under this Agreement does not and will not conflict
with: (i) any applicable law or regulation or any judicial order in effect at the date hereof; (ii) its
constitutive documents; or (iii) any agreement or document to which it is a party or which is binding on it.
Section 3.02. The Recipient represents and warrants that:
(a)    it is indebted to the Association in the principal amount of the Eligible Buy-Down Credit
specified in the Financing Agreement, together with all charges accrued and unpaid thereon;
(b)    its liabilities in respect of the debt due in respect of the Eligible Buy-Down Credit
pursuant to the Financing Agreement are not subject to reduction or diminution in any manner whatsoever
including, without limitation, by way of set-off, compensation, counterclaim, defense, damages or
otherwise; and
(c)    it hereby consents to the transfer and assignment of the said debt, as administrator of the
Trust Funds, pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Release
Section 4.01. The Association, as administrator of the Trust Funds, having become the owner
under this Agreement of the debt due in respect of the Eligible Buy-Down Credit pursuant to the
Financing Agreement, hereby irrevocably and unconditionally releases and forever discharges the
Recipient from any and all liabilities and payment obligations of whatsoever nature, whether present or
future, arising in relation to the said debt, all of which are hereby irrevocably cancelled.


﻿ARTICLE V
Enforceability of Agreement; Failure to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
Section 5.01. The rights and obligations of the Recipient and the Association under this
Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance with their terms notwithstanding the law of any
State or political subdivision thereof to the contrary. Neither the Recipient nor the Association shall be
entitled in any proceeding under this Article to assert any claim that any provision of this Agreement is
invalid or unenforceable because of any provision of the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
Section 5.02. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power or remedy
accruing to either party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair any such right, power or
remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default. No action of such party
in respect of any default, or any acquiescence by it in any default, shall affect or impair any right, power
or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 5.03. (a) Any controversy between the parties to this Agreement, and any claim by either
such party against the other party arising under this Agreement which has not been settled by agreement
of the parties shall be submitted to arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b)    The parties to such arbitration shall be the Association and the Recipient.
(c)    The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as follows: one arbitrator
shall be appointed by the Association, a second arbitrator shall be appointed by the Recipient, and the
third arbitrator (hereinafter sometimes called the Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement of the parties
or, if they shall not agree, by the President of the International Court of Justice or, failing appointment by
said President, by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. If either of the parties shall fail to appoint
an arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the Umpire. In case any arbitrator appointed in
accordance with this Section shall resign, die or become unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be
appointed in the same manner as herein prescribed for the appointment of the original arbitrator, and such
successor shall have all the powers and duties of such original arbitrator.
(d)    An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon notice by the party
instituting such proceeding to the other party. Such notice shall contain a statement setting forth the
nature of the controversy or claim to be submitted to arbitration, the nature of the relief sought, and the
name of the arbitrator appointed by the party instituting such proceeding. Within thirty days after such
notice, the other party shall notify to the party instituting such proceeding the name of the arbitrator
appointed by such other party.
(e)    If within sixty (60) days after the notice instituting the arbitration proceeding, the parties
shall not have agreed upon an Umpire, either party may request the appointment of an Umpire as
provided in paragraph (c) of this Section.
(f)    The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be fixed by the
Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when it shall sit.
(g)    The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its competence and shall,
subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the parties shall otherwise agree, determine its
procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be by majority vote.
(h)    The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to all parties a fair hearing and shall render its award in
writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal


﻿shall constitute the award of such Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each
party. Any such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final and
binding upon the parties to this Agreement. Each party shall abide by and comply with any such award
rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
(i)    The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators and such other
persons as shall be required for the conduct of the arbitration proceedings. If the parties shall not agree on
such amount before the Arbitral Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as
shall be reasonable under the circumstances. Each party shall each defray its own expenses in the
arbitration proceedings. The costs of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between and borne equally by
the parties. Any question concerning the division of the costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for
payment of such costs shall be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.
(j)    The provisions of arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu of any other
procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to this Agreement or of any claim by
either party against the other party arising hereunder.
(k)    The Association shall not be entitled to enter judgment against the Recipient upon the
award, to enforce the award against the Recipient by execution or to pursue any other remedy against the
Recipient for the enforcement of the award, except as such procedure may be available against the
Recipient otherwise than by reason of the provisions of this Section. If, within thirty (30) days after
counterparts of the award shall have been delivered to the parties, the award shall not be complied with by
the Association, the Recipient may take any such action for the enforcement of the award against the
Association.
(1)    Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under this Section or
in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered pursuant to this Section shall be made
in the manner provided in Section 6.01 of this Agreement. The parties to this Agreement waive any and
all other requirements for the service of any such notice or process.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by
hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be
given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:


﻿For the Recipient:
Coordinating Minister for the Economy and
Honorable Minister of Finance
Federal Ministry of Finance
Finance Headquarters
Ahmadu Bello Way
Central Business District
Abuja, Nigeria
Facsimile: 234 9 6273609
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:      Telex:              Facsimile:
INDEVAS             248423 (MCI) or     (202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
Section 6.02. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be an
original.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Abuja, Federal
Republic of Nigeria, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
By:
Name:    r.ts      i
Title: MIA45         c       Ladllcc
A tho'       resen ai
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(acting in its own capacity and as Administrator of the Global Program to
Eradicate Poliomyelitis Trust Funds)
By:
Name: MCM    F)0Tvt00t 8- M Aid 6
Title: C0\vTh   y  )m    a   K
uthorized epresentative


