FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 129a-CR
APPRAISAL OF
AN EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
COSTA RICA
May 29, 1973
Education Projects Division
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENC! EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =     Colones  (D)
US$1               =     Official:  96.65
US$1               =     Free    : 9B.60
g  =  Official:  US$0.15
- =   Free    : US$0.12
kEIGHTS AND 1tASURES
k                       2.20 pounds
1 m                     10.76 sq ft.
1 km2              =     0.38 sq mi
1 ha               =     2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



*                                         ABBREVIATIONS
CACM            =        Central American Common Market
ICAP                     G Central American Institute of
Public Achinistration
INA              =       National Institute of Apprenticeship
MOE              =       Ministry of Education
UCR             =        University of Costa Rica






APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT IN COSTA RICA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY ANDCONCLUSIONS.....................    1
I. INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
II.  THE SETTING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .   2
Social and Economic Background. .9 ...              . .....      2
Economic Development                ....................         2
Manpower Requirements               ...................          3
The Education and Training System  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Education Development  ...................    6
Education Finance                7................               7
IIT. THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  . . .   9
Lower Secondary Rural Schools  . .. . . . . . .a   .      . ...    9
Industrial Arts and Home Science Workshops,
and Science Laboratories               . .. ..  ..  .  .. .... .  10
Vocational Training Centers  ............... .   11
Technical Assistance . . . . . .  .  .    .  . . . . . . . . . . .  12
Cost of the Project    . . . ...... ......                      13
Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1. 5
Implementation and Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
TV.  AGREENENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION*-.. * . *  . *     . * *  17
APPENDICES
ANNEXES
CHARTS
MAP
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Costa Rica during September/October 1972. The mission consisted of Messrs.
C. Vidalon (agricultural educator), J. Besa (architect), K. Lee (economist),
A. French (technical educator - consultant), and N. Fisher (general educator
- consultant).



-2-
APPENDICES
I.   Education and Training
II. Education Finance
ANNEXES
Comparative Education Indicators
1. Production, Employment and Productivity; 1950-1980
2. Employment by Industry, Occupation and Education Background; 1950-1980
3. Enrollments, Output and Teachers, by Level and Type
of Education; 1971
4. Enrollment by Level of Education and Age Group; 1967-1980
5. School Age Population and Enrollments by Age Group; 1967-1980
6. Enrollments and Repeaters in Primary Schools; 1960-1969
7. Supply and Demand of Primary and Secondary Teachers; 1971-1980
8. Educational Expenditures by Source of Finance; 1967-1980
9. Public Education Expenditures by Level of School and by Type
of Expenditure; 1967-1980
10.  Recurrent Cost per Student by Level and Type of Education; 1967-1971
11. Revenues and Expenditures of INA; 1965-1972
12. Major External Assistance for Education; 1968-1975
13. Project Content
14. Lower Secondary Schools to be Provided with Industrial Arts and
Home Science Workshops
15. Summary of Estimated Costs
16. Contingency Allowances
17. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
18. Capital Cost per Student Place
CHARTS
1. Organization of the Ministry of Education (1972-1973)
2. Former and New (1971) Structure of the Formal System of Education
3. Enrollment and Population Pyramid (1970)
4. Implementation Schedule
MAP



COSTA RICA
BASIC DATA - 1971
POPULATION                                      1.8 miUion
- Urban                                       0.7 million
- Rural                                       1.1 million
Population Growth Rate, 1967-1971                 3% p.a.
Real GDP Growth Rate, 1961-1970                 6.8% p.a.
Student Enrollment in:
- Primary Education                         357,100
as % of age group 7-12                        84 (108!!)
- Secondary Education                        86,000
as % of age group 13-18                       26 (34)J)
- Higher Education                           18,200
as % of age group 19-24                       10
Public Education Excpenditures
as % of total government expenditures     27.7
as % of GDP                                5.2
1/ Including students above and below the relevant age group.






APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT IN COSTA RICA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The proposed project is designed to assist the Government of Costa
Rica to implement its educational development plan by: (a) improving the
quality of lower secondary education, especially in science and prevocational
subjects; and (b) expanding non-formal vocational training.
ii.       Costa Rica has traditionally devoted a large share of its resources
to education, with particular emphasis on quantitative expansion. However,
this expansion took place without any coordinated planning and as a consequence
the education system has developed in a rather haphazard way. The National
Plan for Educational Development (1972-1980) is designed to reverse this process
by improving the internal efficiency of the education system and relating
education more closely to the socio-economic requirements of the country.
The Plan is well-conceived and provides the framework for an education system
which will go far towards meeting these goals over the next decade or so.
Its implementation, however, is at an early stage and there is need for
support by external financial and technical assistance. The Government is
already receiving some such assistance, but there are important areas not so
covered, which would be included in the proposed Bank project.
iii.      The Bank project is designed to improve the quality of lower
secondary education by providing laboratories and workshops to existing
schools which, due to enrollment pressures, were constructed with classrooms
only; expand and regionalize non-formal vocational programs for upgrading
the apprenticeship training of workers; and to help to redress imbalances
in educational opportunities and promote rural development by expanding
lower secondary educational facilities in rural areas. Specifically, the
project would comprise:
(a) Construction of and furniture and equipment for:
-    four new and two existing lower secondary rural schools;
-    industrial arts and home science workshops and
science laboratories for twenty-five lower secondary
schools; and
-    five new vocational training centers.
(b) Technical assistance:
-    six man-years of specialists' services for agricultural
and home science education; and
-    twenty-four man-years of fellowships for teaching staff
development in agriculture and home science subjects.



- ii -
iv.       A project unit would be established within the Ministry of Public
Works and Transport to supervise project implementation, coordinate activities
within the Government and with the National Institute of Apprenticeship (INA)
and provide liaison with the Bank.
v.        Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding, in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. In accordance with the Central American
Agreement on Fiscal Incentives for Industrial Development, manufacturers in
Central American Common Market Countries would receive a regional preference
of 15% of the c.i.f. cost of imports or 50% of the applicable external tariff,
whichever is lower.
vi.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$9.4
million, and the foreign exchange component at US$4.7 million. Implementation
would be over a period of 4.5 years; construction would be completed in about
3.5 years. A proposed Bank loan of US$6.2 million would finance 66% of total
cost. Since it would have a minimum impact on recurrent expenditures, the
project size would be within the capacity of the Government to execute and
finance.
vii.      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$6.2 million
to Costa Rica for a term of 30 years, including a grace period of 10 years.



APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT IN COSTA RICA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Following a request from the Government for Bank assistance to the
education sector, a Unesco mission visited Costa Rica in October 1971 to
identify priority items for a possible education project. Its report of
January 1972 served as a basis for discussions between the Government and a
Bank mission which visited Costa Rica in April 1972. The Government subsequently
prepared the project with assistance from UTnesco and in June 1972 submitted
its loan request to the Bank. The proposed project was appraised in Septem-
ber/October 1972 by a mission comprising Messrs. C. Vidalon (agricultural
educator), J. Besa (architect), K. Lee (economist), A. French (technical
educator-consultant) and N. Fisher (general educator-consultant).
1.02      During appraisal the proposed project was modified to:  (a) delete
low priority and insufficiently prepared items: (b) adopt more economical
alternatives for certain proposals; and (c) keep the size of the project
within financially manageable limits. The project content was discussed
again with the Government in Februarv 1973 when Mr. Vidalon visited San Jose.
The project wo',ld consist of:
(i) construction of and furniture and equipment for:
-    four new and two existing lower secondary 1/ rural schools;
-    industrial arts and home science workshops, and science
laboratories in twqenty-five existing lower secondary schools;
and
-    five new vocational training centers.
(ii) six man-years of soecialists' services and twenty-four
man-years of fellowships for training abroad.
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$9.4 million and the foreign
exchange component at US$4.7 million. The proposed Bank loan would be for
US86.2 million.
1/   Grades 7-9 make up the "third-cycle" of basic education in Costa Rica,
but the more common term "lower secondary" is used throughout this
report.



-2-
II. THE SETTING
Social and Economic Background
2.01      Costa Rica maintained one of the world's highest population growth
rates during the late 1950's and early 1960's (4% p,a.), but, following
the introduction of a national family planning program, a sharp decrease in
birth rates in the past ten years has lowered population growth to about
3% p.a. Almost half the population is under 15 years and about 40% is classi-
fied as urban. More than half of the population live in the Central Plateau
(MIeseta Central) which includes San Jose, the capital and the social, cultural,
business and political center of the country. One-third of the population
is concentrated in the Greater San Jose Metropolitan Area.
2.02      The labor force (32% of population) increased at about 4.3% p.a.
during 1963-1968, but it is expected that this rate will slow to 3.8% p.a. in
the 1970's (Annex 1). About 43% of the labor force is employed in the
primary sectors; 19% in industry and the balance in services. Unemployment
is abo-ut 5% - 6% of the labor force.
2,.03     In 1970, the average income was US$560 and the distribution of
incone is relatively even compared with many other countries in the region.
The illiteracy rate is about 11% and the education system, in quantitative
terms. is one of the best in Latin America. A markedly high degree of social
col nion is asnociated with the absence of any hereditary aristocracy or
XT>Y(3 class differences and Costa Rica has long.had a democratic form of
Gveruiv ent v4th two major political parties.
Costa Rica has no mineral wealth except for bauxite.  The economy
6epen,~4,s 'eavily on coffee, bananas, cacao and sugar, which account for 23%
of C.UP, although the manufacturing sector (19% of GDP) has grown rapidly (at
11`% p.*, in the last five years) and has contributed greatly to the substan-
tial Increase in exports. Above all, Costa Rica has achieved an impressive
rate of economic growth, an average annual increase of real GDP of 6.8% in
the past decade. This rate was largely the result of increased agricultural
production, especially bananas and coffee for export, rapid industrialization
and important foreign investments encouraged by low wages and political
stability. The country, however, has often (1966, 1970 and 1971) experi-
enced fiscal and balance of payments difficulties resulting mainly from
dependence on a few agricultural commodities subject to strong world market
price fluctuations.
Economic Development
2.05      Although no formal development plan has been formulated, the gov-
ernment's development strategy is aimed mainly at restructuring the
economy and diversifying exports. Traditional agricultural exports (bananas
and coffee) are expected to level off towards the mid-1970's and the main
effort, therefore, will be to develop new exports, particularly in markets
outside the Central American Common Market (CACM). The Government has signed
a contract with a U.S. firm to investigate new export possibilities and a bill



- 3 -
has been submitted to the Assembly to grant incentives to non-traditional
exports.
2.06      However, export promotion alone will not be sufficient to ensure
expansion of output and employment in agriculture. Agricultural policy will
focus increasingly on improving the productivity of small and medium-sized
farms producing mainly for the domestic market. 'rhis would make it possible
to substitute for food imports which now account for about 5% of total im-
ports and to provide raw materials for further industrial processing.
2.07      Although the primary sector would continue to be the mainstay of the
economy, the industrial sector is expected to play a key role in sustaining
economic growth in the 1970's. While the government will explore further
opportunities for developing import-substitution industries, its prime effort
will lie in making industrial production less import-dependent by using
unexploited domestic resources such as agricultural raw materials, woods
and mineral ores. Transportation, public utilities and other related infra-
structure will receive priority so as to promote the integration of the
economy.
Manpower Requirements
2.03      The success of this development strategy requires a competent
work force. Although detailed analyses are lacking, the Bank estimates,
on the basis of available data and studies by ILO and UCR, that during 1968-
1990, employment may increase at about 3.5% p.a. (Annex 1). This means that
about 242,000 new jobs would be created by 1980 -- some 83,000 in agriculture,
53,000 in industry and 106,000 in services (Annex 2).
2.09      In the agricultural sector there would be a heavy demand on trained
manpower to diversify agricultural production and increase food production
at a faster rate than Dopulation growth. This requires efficient and know-
ledgeable agricultural extension and other services staff backed by adequate
research staff. By 1930, somewhat more than 800 agricultural professionals
and technicians would be needed by government agencies, banking and credit
institutions and other emnloyers.  USAID-supported programs for the expansion
of the Faculty of Agriculture, UCR, and other post-secondary agricultural
schools will be aimed at meeting the need for agricultural professionals and
technicians.  An IDB loan for eight upper secondary agricultural schools will
help fill the need for lower level technicians. Vocational training programs
are needed to complement these projects and the vocational training centers
included in the nroject would be an important sten in this direction.
2.10      The development of new export industries and the expansion of indus-
tries for the growing domestic market will call for more skilled workers.
The need for technicians and skilled workers is partictularly strong in food
processing, textiles, chemicals, woodwork and furniture, building and road
construction, auto vehicles and electrical en uipment.  Although a new insti-
tute of technology will start operating in 1973, no opportunities exist in
the present educational system for training technicians below university
level. About 160 students who qraduate each year from industrial upper
secondary schools are potential skilled workers. Technical education at this



level will be expanded under an IDB project to help meet the need for skilled
industrial workers. To meet the estimated need for an additional 20,000
skilled and semi-skilled workers in industry by 1980, both the formal and
non-formal educational systems should encourage youths to take vocational
training and should provide adequate training facilities. The industrial
arts and home science workshops in lower secondary schools and the vocational
training centers included in the project would serve this purpose.
2.11      A large part of the rapid increase in the demand for professional
manpower occurs in the education sector itself. Extension of compulsory
education from grade six to nine, development of diversified upper secondary
schools, and expansion of higher education institutions are the main causes
of the increasing demand for teachers and administrators. By 1980, the
minimum teacher requirements will be 10,600 for primary level, and 6,700
for secondary level of whom 1,200 will be needed for vocational education.
Restructuring and development of the teacher training system under the new
National University (para. 2.18) is expected to meet these demands.
The Education and Training System (Appendix I; Annexes 3-7; Charts 1-3)
2.12      The National Plan for Educational Development (1972-1980), pub-
lished in 1971, is the culmination of an intensive study of the achievements
and short-comings of education in Costa Rica up to 1970. The main objectives
of the Plan relate to:
(a) restructuring of the education system into nine years of
basic general education followed by three years of diver-
sified education with increased options;
(b) expansion of educational opportunities with special regard
to the rural areas;
(c) expansion in the pre-primary and lower secondary levels and
in vocational education in the upper secondary level;
(d) strengthening of pre-vocational teaching in the lower secondary
level;
(e) qualitative improvements throughout the national system; and
(f) more efficiently structured central administration and de-
centralization of educational services.
2.13      The system has suffered from three educational constraints:
repetition, dropouts and lack of physical facilities. Since 1972, the
structure of primary and secondary education has been in process of change.
The former pattern of 6+3+2 or 3 (two years academic or three years voca-
tional) has become a nine-years basic education in three 3-year cycles,
followed by three years of academic or vocational education. New curricula
and teachers' manuals are being prepared, and new criteria for evaluation
of students' programs, student guidance and automatic promotion have been



- 5 -
established. In-service training courses for teachers, specialists and
administrators have already begun.
2.14      Primary education, consisting of six years in two 3-year cycles,
starting at age six or seven, is provided free in public schools and is
compulsory. Since 1967, primary enrollment has grown some 4% p.a. to reach
357,100 in 1971. This represents 108% of the age group 7-12 years but, if
overage and underaged students are excluded, the ratio is 84%. Expansion
has not been matched by qualitative improvement, especially in the rural
areas where standards are low. Fewer than one-third of the students com-
plete primary education without repetition while late starters and repeaters
boost enrollments in the first two grades. In 1970 there were 19,000 drop-outs
in grades 1-5 and a further 20,000 students who graduated in grade 6 but
were unable to continue full-time education. Almost one-half of the total
enrollment were girls and private schools accounted for 6% of the enrollment.
2.15      The Plan calls for a gradual decrease in primary education enrollments
by the introduction of automatic promotion, while increasing to 97% the actual
age-group participation. It appears, however, that -- as has already happened
in 1971 -- primary enrollment will continue increasing to near 400,000 by 1980
(Annex 4). Qualitative improvements in the curriculum will include a more
integrated subject-related approach with emphasis on exploratory learning
techniques and on mathematics, science and practical subjects. While the
great majority (86%) of primary school teachers are qualified, these new
approaches will involve an expanded in-service training program which the
government has already initiated. Together with pre-service training it
should eliminate unqualified teachers by 1980 and have a supply exceeding the
minimum needs for teachers (Annex 7). Upgrading programs for a number of
primary teachers will be organized to qualify them to teach at the lower
secondary level.
2.16      Secondary education enrollments rose by 10.5% p.a. during the last
four years to reach 86,000 in 1971, equivalent to 26% of the relevant age
group. About 50% of primary school leavers enter secondary education and
only half of them complete the course. Public education is free and 13% of
enrollments were in private schools (1971); 49% were girls. There is an
acute shortage of physical facilities in lower secondary schools which in
many instances use the facilities of primary schools. Children in rural areas
have far from equal educational opportunity; the probability of entrance
to secondary school is more than 90% in the city and less than 20% in the
rural areas. In 1971, only 26% of the secondary students were in the upper
diversified cycle and only 8% were in vocational courses (Annex 3). With
only 69% of teachers qualified and inadequate laboratories, workshops and
libraries, the quality of secondary education is low.
2.17      The National Plan calls for qualitative and quantitative improve-
ments at this level. Lower secondary (grades 7-9) will be improved in content
and methodology, emphasizing practical and pre-vocational courses; the provi-
sion of guidance courses would offer relevant preparation both for students
terminating full time education at this level and for those seeking to



- 6 -
proceed with their studies. At the upper diversified cycle (grades 10-12)
new options in health, communications and art will be added to the existing
academic, agricultural, industrial and commercial courses. Total enrollment
would increase to 53% of the relevant age group, which would include a higher
proportion of students in vocational courses. It is the Bank's view, however,
that population projections have been underestimated and total secondary
school enrollment will probably reach 200,000 in 1980, representing only 47%
of the relevant age group, of which 17% would be in vocational courses (Annex 4).
This means there will have to be a greater expansion in physical facilities
and teacher training and correspondingly increased financial provisions (Annex
9), than is planned. Plans for program expansion and geographical distribution
of lower secondary and academic upper secondary schools are being prepared
by the Ministry of Education. For the expansion and improvement of vocational
upper secondary schools an IDB project is under implementation. Some 4,000
additional secondary teachers will be required by 1980. Since the expected
output from teacher training institutions is lower, an intensive program of
in-service training will be needed to upgrade surplus primary teachers and
to re-orient secondary teachers toward the new approaches.
2.18      Higher education enrollments increased at a rate of 20% p.a. since
1967 to reach 18,200 in 1971, or 10% of the relevant age group. Some 15,700
students were enrolled in the University of Costa Rica (UCR), most of them in
humanities, social sciences and education, and only 15% in science and tech-
nical faculties. About 2,400 students were enrolled in primary and secondary
teacher-training institutions and 60 in the new agricultural technical school.
All teacher training courses are post-secondary: two years for primary
teachers (to be extended to three years) and four years for secondary teachers.
In recognition of the need for coordination in the development of teacher
training, a new National University has recently been established which will
be integrated into the national system of higher education. Integrated into
this new autonomous institution are the higher normal school and the four
normal schools now operating. Until the governing bodies are legally
established, the University will be organized and administered by an ad-hoc
commission comprising the Ministers of Education, Planning and Labor, and
eight professors of UCR. On the other hand, the need for post-secondary
technician institutions and UCR regional centers is well recognized, but the
lack of basic studies has delayed the preparation of a comprehensive plan;
studies are now being carried out with USAIT and IDB assistance.
2.19     Non-formal training is mainly the responsibility of the Ministry
of Education and the National Institute of Apprenticeship (INA). In 1971,
enrollments in non-vocational adult evening classes organized by the Ministry
totalled 7,300 and INA enrollments in a variety of skill training and up-
grading programs reached 6,300 (paras. 3.11 to 3.13).
Education Development
2.20      Costa Rica has traditionally devoted a large share of its re-
sources to education (28% of Central Government expenditures in 1971), with
emphasis on quantitative growth, especially at the primary level. This
growth, however, took place without any coordinated plan for educational
development and the system has grown in a haphazard way. The National Plan



for Educational Development (1972-1980) is designed to reverse the process by
improving the internal efficiency of the system, by lowering the cost of
education and, above all, by gearing the system to the needs of the country.
To these ends, a number of programs have been formulated, some of which are
already being implemented. The well-conceived Plan provides a framework for
an education system which will go far to meet the needs of the population
and the economy effectively over the next decade or so. In general, the
Plan is well adapted to the requirements of the country but it is not yet
spelled out in detail, nor are the implications of the general lines of the
new policies fully visible with respect, for example, to the role of the
University and the organization of teacher-training; the best type of curri-
culum for the lower secondary rural schools; the degree of specialization
and the rate of expansion of the upper secondary schools; a more realistic
assessment of the growth of student enrollment at various levels; and the
financing and rate of implementation which can realistically be envisaged
for a plan intended to be in full operation by the end of the seventies.
Unesco is providing assistance on education planning, curriculum and adminis-
tration on a continuing basis.
2.21      Despite the lack of detailed Dlanning, there are certain clear needs
which the Bank can help meet. The lines of policv are sufficiently definite
for the Bank to proceed with a project to: (a) improve the quality of lower
secondary education by adding to existing schools laboratories and workshops,
which due to Pressure on school construction to meet enrollment demands have
for the most part been omitted; (b) nrovide facilities to rural schools which,
besides offering new educational opportunity at the lower secondary level,
contribute to rural development programs through non-formal courses and com-
munity activities; and (c) extend vocational training of skilled and semi-
skilled workers to the provinces.
2.22      To meet other immediate needs in education planning, curriculum
development, teaching material, secondary and higher education, agricultural
education and apprenticeship training schemes, the Government is receiving
technical and financial assistance from a number of external agencies (Annex
12). The Bank regards the volume and nature of the assistance being provided
as adequate, except for the items contained in the proposed project (paras.
3.16, 3.17).
Education Finance (Appendix II; Annexes 8-12)
2.23      Financial responsibility for education rests primarily with the
Central Government, although local authorities (Juntas de Educacion) help
by providing sites and labor for school construction. Public education in
grades 1-12 is free. Public expenditure on education increased by 14% p.a.
during 1967-1971, a rate similar to the growth of total government expendi-
ture but higher than the 11% p.a. growth of GDP (Annex 8). As a result,
public expenditure on education increased from 4.7% of GDP in 1967 to 5.2%
in 1971, while its share in total central government expenditure remained
at about 28%, a relatively high figure by Latin American standards (see
Comparative Education Indicators). Public education expenditures per capita
amounted to $30 in 1971, as compared with a range of $8 to $26 in other
Central American and Caribbean countries. This relatively high figure may be



- 8 -
explained by such facts as:  (i) teachers' salaries comparable with those of
the private sector; (ii) better quality of education; and (iii) low defense
expenditures which allow use of resources for social objectives.
2.24      One problem of the educational system is that quantitative expansion
was not always accompanied by improvement in quality and efficiency. While
enrollments were growing less than 6% p.a. during 1967-1971 (Annex 4), Ministry
of Education expenditures rose 15% p.a. (Annex 8). Several factors contributed
to the inefficiency of the system: (i) relatively low completion rate (65% in
primary school and 46% in secondary school); (ii) diseconomies of the small
size of schools and (iii) underutilization of teachers because of early
retirement, lower teaching loads and relatively low student/teacher ratios
in less populated areas. These factors are also responsible for the excessive
concentration of resources on salaries and allowances (over 95% of the Ministry
of Education recurrent expenditures) and the resultant inadequate allocations
for school materials. School maintenance is the responsibility of the Ministry
of Public Works and Transport and appears satisfactory.
2.25      While total education expenditures were high, education claimed
only 4% of public investment during 1967-1971, as compared with 10-20% in
many other developing countries. Practically no investment has been made
in secondary vocational education and teacher training during this period,
although enrollments have doubled; hence many students are now accommodated
in temporary or inadequate facilities.
2.26      According to the National Plan, MOE total expenditures are projected
to grow at 10% p.a. in 1971-1980, declining from 24% to 21% of total Government
expenditures. However, since recurrent expenditure in 1971 was higher in
absolute terms than estimated in the Plan, the Bank believes that recurrent
expenditure in 1980 will be higher than the Plan estimate. Total public ex-
penditure on education would therefore increase to 5.5% of GDP and the share
of MOE in total Government expenditure would remain at the present 24%
level.
2.27      Concerning capital expenditures, the Bank projections show that,
even with a more intensive utilization of facilities, the increase in
enrollment by 1980 would require an investment of around USS90 million 1/,
or US$10 million a year, by MOE in order to provide proper facilities,
furniture and equipment. Even increasing the budgetary allocations to
capital expenditures from US$1.8 million in 1971 to an average of US$3
million in 1971-1980, as the Bank envisages, would cover only the basic
classrooms for the expected increase in enrollment. Thus, the Government
would require additional external financing if it is to provide more than
just classrooms for new students. The Government will therefore want to
assess carefully the pace at wihich it implements the education plan it is
now elaborating, taking into account likely availability of external resources
and the claims of other sectors.
1/   Cost of complete facilities as estimated by appraisal mission.



III. THE PROJECT
3.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to assist the Costa
Rican Government to implement its education development strategy by improv-
ing the quality of lower secondary education, especially in science and pre-
vocational subjects, without significantly increasing recurrent costs, and
by expanding and regionalizing non-formal vocational training. The project
would finance:
t                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1/
(i) construction of, and furniture and equipment for: -
Staff Enrollment
Number of          Students Housing  at Full
Institutions Grades  Places   Units   Capacity
Lower Secondary Rural Schools
- new                          4         7-9    1,720       8       1,720
- extensions                   2                  600       4         860
Workshops/Labs for
Lower Secondary Schools
- extensions                  25         7-9    4,000       -      36,000
Vocational Training Centers
- new                          5         n.a.   1,730       -       4,700
(ii) technical assistance in the form of six man-years of specialists'
services for agricultural education and home science education;
and twenty-four man-years of fellowships for teacher staff de-
velopment in agriculture and home science subjects.
Lower Secondary Rural Schools
3.02      The Government has recently established a rural secondary education
program (Programa de Capacitacion Tecnica), to which it has accorded high
priority.  The program is designed to help redress imbalances in educational
opportunities by providing lower secondary schools in rural districts where
no secondary schools existed previously in spite of large numbers of primary
school graduates. The schools offer programs which are similar to those of
other lower secondary institutions, but with a strong pre-vocational content
in agriculture or home science relevant to the needs of each area.
3.03      An equally important objective of the program is the fostering of
rural development by the provision of facilities for non-formal courses to
improve the skills of adult farmers and homemakers and the sponsoring of
developmental activities in cooperation with other public and private
organizations, which are directed to the particular social and economic
needs of the communities.
1/  Additional information in Annexes 13, 14.



- 10 -
3.04      The program has received enthusiastic public support and at the
time of appraisal the establishment of eleven such lower secondary schools
had been approved by the Government. Each school has a Board of Management,
consisting of representatives of the community and each Board is responsible
for providing assistance to its school. The nature of the assistance may vary
according to the circumstances but could, for instance, include part-time
labor for construction or maintenance building materials or lodging for
school officials and teachers. In all cases the community must Drovide the
land.
3.05      The project would helD to finance the development of six lower
secondary rural schools which are currently operating in temporary build-
ings provided by their resnective communities and which have very little
equinment.  Specifically, the project would provide complete facilities for
four schools (in Jicaral, Hojancha, Pacayas and Santa Maria) and additional
facilities for two schools (in Aguas Zarcas and Buenos Aires) which already
have some new classrooms under construction with community support. The
capacity of each school would be 430 student places, one-half for an agri-
cultural stream (mostly boys) and one-half for a home science stream (mostly
girls). Since most of the students would come from the surrounding com-
munity no provision has been made for boarding facilities. Two staff
housing units would be provided for each school.
3.06      At the end of the third year (grade 9) of secondary education,
students who intend to continue their education would transfer to upper
secondary diversified schools in the area; those who do not intend or are
unable to continue their education would seek jobs. Although the curriculum
of the lower secondary schools would not nrovide specialized training for
technician positions, it would offer students a better understanding of the
rural environment and some basic skills which could be further improved through
non-formal training programs.
3.07      The nresent agricultural and home science content of the cur-
riculum in the lower secondary rural schools appears somewhat high for
this level of education. Nevertheless, it can be regarded as acceptable
during the first years of development of the schools when most of the
students will be going directly to work. The curriculum should, however,
be subject to continuing review and the Bank should discuss this matter
with the Government during project implementation.
Industrial Arts and Home Science Workshops and Science Laboratories
3.08      One objective of the National Education Plan is to improve the
quality of lower secondary education by revising curricula and giving more
emphasis to the sciences, industrial arts and home science to help students
to develon basic skills in these areas. W4orkshops and laboratories are
essential to teach such subjects in a meaningful way. Costa Rican educa-
tional authorities recognize this fact and, indeed, a few secondary schools
have excellent facilities. However, due to enrollment pressures, most
schools have been constructed with classrooms only.



- 11 -
3.09      Given financial limitations, the project would provide for expansion
and imDrovement of industrial arts workshops, home science workshops and
science laboratories in 25 existing lower secondary schools, sufficient to
service about 60% of the students presently enrolled at that level. Fifteen
schools with adequate other facilities were tentatively selected during
appraisal (Annex 14). The remaining ten schools will be selected by the
Ministry of Education and submitted to the Bank.  Tt was agreed during negoti-
ations that all the schools to be provided with these facilities would be
finally approved during project implementation when building designs and
equipment lists are submitted to the Bank.
3.10      Each industrial arts and home science workshop would accommodate
40 students at one tire and each science laboratory -- comprising two areas
-- would accommodate 80 students. Thus, 4,000 workshop and laboratory
places would be provided in the 25 project schools, enough to service a
total enrollment of 36,000 students. The Government agreed during negotia-
tions to implement by January 1, 1975, an in-service training program to upgrade
the science and practical subjects teachers for these laboratories and work-
shops. The program will be submitted to the Bank for comment within one year
of the Loan Agreement.
Vocational Training Centers
3.11      Costa Rica urgently needs trained manpower (paras. 2.05-2.10).
Training for snecific occupations is the responsibility of the National
Institute of Apprenticeship (INA) established in 1965. This institute
operates outside the formal education system ag an autonomous body with-
in the Ministry of Labor and is financed by a payroll tax on industrial
and commercial enterprises. It enrolls out-of-school youth and adults
in seven different types of courses including three-year apprenticeship
courses, short courses to improve the skills of employed workers, foreman
training, basic education for those who left school in the early grades
and extension courses for women to improve home living competence. INA re-
quires the equivalent of primary school education and a minimum age of 15
for apprenticeship courses. Courses are offered both in the training center
at La Uruca, near San Jose, and at other locations depending upon the type
of course. The achievements of INA are impressive and its relations with
industry are aood. To date, more than 10,000 people have benefited from
courses offered by INA. It receives technical assistance from ILO, France
and Switzerland, except for the agricultural programs of the new regional
centers (para. 3.16).
3.12      There is a need for decentralization of INA services through estab-
lishment of regional centers. To Provide training of skilled and semi-
skilled workers throughout the country the project would establish four
new INA regional centers at Naranjo, Limon, Liberia and San Isidro -- all
growing districts with populations varying from 87,000 to 200,000. These
centers have been well located to serve most people and to have maximum
impact on future development: they would correct the existing geographic



- 12 -
imbalance of training opportunities, thereby contributing to the implementa-
tion of the Government's strategy to provide training opportunities to the
provinces. Since all four centers, with a total capacity of 960 places,
would offer courses of a flexible nature, they could enroll 3,200 trainees
at any one time and could provide 10,000 workers per year with varied forms
of training.
3.13      Surveys conducted by INA show a great need for manpower training,
particularly for upgrading employed workers. Because employment in the
regions to be served is predominantly in agriculture, much of the training
(adequately coordinated with the Ministry of Agriculture) would be in
agriculture and related occupations. The employment pattern would change
as the regions develop and the training would be modified to meet changing
needs. Initially, training of an introductory nature and upgrading programs
would be made available in the regional centers, while the more formal
apprentice training would be concentrated in the existing center at La Uruca.
As the need grows, apprentice training would be decentralized and the regional
centers would include the entire range of programs.
3.14      Regional advisory bodies with membership including employers,
employees and Government are considered essential for generating both
regional and sectorial support. The establishment of an advisory body,
appointed by INA's central board, in each of the four INA regional centers,
within one year of the Loan Agreement, has been agreed.
3.15      The project would also provide a new building in San Jose, plus
furniture and equinment, to house INA headquarters. Classrooms and workshops,
with a total capacity of 770 student places, for commerce and service courses
and in-nlant training., would be included in the main building. Due to the
flexible nature of the courses, some 1,500 trainees could be enrolled at
any one tine which would produce about 4,500 trained personnel per year.
The establishment of the new INA headquarters would allow INA to maintain
its present facilities in La Uruca, near San Jose, as a pilot center for all
training purPoses and for programming activities, the latter occupying the
facilities to be vacated by the administration when it moves to San Jose.
Technical Assistance
3.16      Professional services would be provided to:  (i) improve existing
agricilture and home science courses in lower secondary schools; (ii)
improve teaching methods for agriculture and home science subjects in
teacher training institutions; and (iii) advise on agriculture training at
INA's regional vocational training centers. A total of six man-years of
professional services would be included in the project for specialists in
agricultural education, home science education and vocational training in
agriculture, with two man-years in each field. Two experts would be provided
for MOE and one for INA. Job specifications have been agreed during negotia-
tions and assurances have been obtained from the Government that the special-
ists would be anpointed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
as soon as possible and no later than one year from the date of the Loan
Agreement.



- 13 -
3.17      Staff development is essential for the success of agriculture and
home science programs in the Droject schools. The proposed project would
provide twenty-four man-vears of fellowships for: (i) school principals to
be trained in modern methods of rural school organization and management;
and (ii) agricultural and home science teachers to be trained in their
respective fields. It was agreed during negotiations that before fellowships
are awarded, the Bank will be consulted on the fellowships program which
will be prepared by the Ministry of Education, within six months of the Loan
Agreement.
Cost of the Project
3.18      The estimated cost and foreign exchange component of the various
project items are shown in Annex 15, and summarized below:
Colones (millions)          US$(millions)       % of
Local   Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign  Total Total
1. Lower Sec. Rural
Schools               8.08      6.63   14.71    1.21       1.00    2.21   24
2. Vocational Training
Centers               6.36      6.44   12.80    0.95       n.97    1.92   20
3. Workshops and Labs.    9.34    10.49   19.83    1.40         1.58    2.98   31
4. Technical Assist-
ance                  0.29      1.91    2.20    0.05       0.28    0.33    4
5. Project Administration 1.33        -       1.33    0.20       -      0.20    2
6. Contingencies
a) Phvsical           2.27      1.83    4.10    0.34       0.28    0.62    7
b) Price              3.61      3.83    7.44    0.55       0.57    1.12   12
Total Project Cost    31.28    31.13   62.41    4.70         4.68    9.38  100
J.1 i    'Lne distribution of costs by category of expenditure is as
0 ows:



- 14 -
Colones (millions)           US$(millions)      % of
Local   Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign  Total Total
1. Construction
Academic & Communal
Facilities           17.33    11.55   2R.88    2.60        1.74    4.34   46
Staff Housing           0.56      0.37    0.93    0.0S       0.06    0.14    2
Site Development        2.16      0.93    3.09    0.32       0.14    0.46    5
Professional Services  1.48       0.37    1.85    0.22       0.06    0.28    3
Sub-Total            21.53    13.22   34.75    3.22        2.00    5.22   56
2. Furniture                1.24      1.24    2.48    0.19      0.18    0.37    4
3. Equinment                1.01     9.10   10.11    0.15        1.37    1.52   16
4. Tecinical Assistance   0.29        1.91    2.20    0.05       0.28    0.33    3
5. Project Administration 1.33        -       1.33    0.20       -       0.20    2
6. Contingencies            5.88     5.66   11.54    0.89       0.85    1.74   19
Total Project Cost   31.28    31.13   62.41    4.70         4.68    9.38  100
3.20      Construction cost estimates for school buildings are based on
contracts concluded bv the National Building Office (Ministry of Public Works
and Transnort) over the past three years and on information obtained from
private enterprises. The average estimated construction cost per square
meter of gross floor area for the rural schools and workshops is US$90
eq,uivalent (October 1072 prices). This cost and the estimated cost ner
student nlace in Droiect institutions are reasonable and compare well with
other Bank-financed proiects (Annex 18). Site development costs are estimated
at 10-12% of buildin, costs, depending on site conditions.  Furniture and
equi?iment cost estimates are reasonable; detailed lists should be prepared
during the design stage and reviewed bv the Bank before Procurement. The
Government and INMA would provide the sites Twithout cost to the Droject.
Most have already been selected and no difficulty is foreseen in acquiring
the remainder (para. 3.28).
3.21      Contingency allowances are shown in detail in Annex 16.  For
unforeseen factors, 10% has been allowed in the cost estimates of construction,
site develonnent and professional services, and 5% in the estimates for
furniture and equinnent. Costs are expected to increase, and an additional
contingency equal to 15% for local and foreign costs (based on 6% p.a.), has
been included. All continoencies amount to 19% of total project cost, or
to 23% of project cost before contingencies.



- 15 -
3.22      The foreign exchange component of US$4.7 million equivalent has
been calculated as follows:  site development, 30%; construction, 40%;
furniture, 50%; equipment, 90%; professional services, 20%; specialists'
services, 80%; and fellowships, 100%.
3.23      Recurrent costs generated bv the project will not unduly burden
the Central Government budget because: (i) INA will cover its own costs
from payroll tax (Annex 11); (ii) workshops and laboratories will not require
new teachers but only additional expenditures for materials and maintenance;
and (iii) while the six rural schools will require some additional teachers,
the small additional expenditures are well-justified on grounds of their role
in rmral develoDment.
Financing
3.24      The proposed project would be financed through a US$6.2 million
Bank loan and a counterpart contribution of US$3.2 million, including US$0.8
million from INA and US$2.4 million from the Central Government. Given the
priority which the Government accords to education and to the proposed project,
it should be able to provide this sum over the next four years during which
time its funds available for education investment are likely to total US$10-12
million. INA's revenues are expected to double from 1970 to 1980, from 14.0
to 29.0 million Colones, as a result of the broader base being given to the
payroll tax it receives. Increased revenues should allow it to provide 5.5
million Colones over three years for the five new centers which comprise the
core of its investment plan; some 3 million n.a. is allocated to investment.
3.25      The proposed Bank loan would finance about 667% of the estimated
total cost of the project (US$6.2 million), including US$4.7 million of
foreign exchange and US$1.5 million of local expenditures.
Implementation and Disbursements
3.26      Administration.  A project unit would be established in the
Ministry of Public Works and Transport, in which the National Building Office
is resnonsible for construction and maintenance of schools. Close coordination
with MOE, esnecially on academic matters, planning of space and Preparation
of equirtment lists, would he essential, as is in fact the case with the
working committee of the 2 ministries which coordinates the school building
program.  INA also works closely with the Ministrv of Public Works.  The
project unit would supervise project implementation, coordinate activities
with the ministries involved in the project and with INA, and provide liaison
with the Bank. To these ends, the project unit would consist of: (i) a
full-time project director; (ii) a full-time architect; (iii) a full-time
educator seconded bv the MOE; and (iv) a full-time Procurement officer. The
director and the architect would be appointed in consultation wjith the Bank.
Establishrent of the project unit and anoointment of the project director



- 16 -
are conditions of effectiveness of the loan. It was agreed that the other
three officers will be appointed within six months after the date of the
Loan Agreement. In addition, the project unit will be provided with adequate
accounting and supporting staff and facilities. The remunerations and
allowances for the project unit director, architect, educator and procure-
ment officer are included in the project cost.
3.27      Given the autonomous statuKs of INA, contractual arrangements between
the Government and INA concernina the vocational training centers, acceptable
to the Bank, will be required.  These arrangements are a condition of disburse-
ment for the project item concerned. The Government has agreed to require
repayment of that part of the loan used for construction of the INA facilities
on the same terms as those of the Bank loan.
3.28      Sites.  Suitable sites for the six lower secondary rural schools,
for 15 industrial arts and home science workshops and for the INA headquar-
ters in San Jose and its regional center at Naranjo, are available. Sites
for ten further industrial arts and home science workshops and for the TNA
regional centers at Liberia, Limon and San Isidro have not yet been selected.
Assurances during loan negotiations were obtained from the Government that
all legal. steps will be taken for acquisition of sites for the project
institutions sn that the sites will be available in due time for building
design.
3.29      Procurement.  Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment
xmuld be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans. In ac-
cordance with the Central American Agreement on Fiscal Incentives for
Industrial Development, CACM countries would receive a regional preference
of 15% of the c.i.f. price or 50% of the applicable external tariff, whichever
is lower.  Bid packages would he large enough to encourage international
competiton. The project unit would be responsible for preparing and issuing
tenders. Detailed master lists of furniture and equipment would be prepared
with consultants' assistance and submitted for Bank review prior to procure-
ment.
3.30      Design and supervision of civil works would be carried out by the
Ministry of Public TWorks and Transport or by consultant architects. Designs
would be sumitted for Bank review prior to tendering. An adequate number
of qualified architects and building contractors is available in Costa Rica.
They would be subject to an appropriate svstem of prequalification prior to
bidding. The bulk of contracts would most likely be won by such firms, some
of which are joint ventures with foreign partners.
3.31      Disbursements.  The project as a whole would be implemented over
a period of 4.5 years; the construction part would be completed in about 3.5
years. The proposed loan would be disbursed (Annex 17) as follows:



- 17 -
(i) 55% of total expenditures for civil works including
related professional services;
(ii)  100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of local expenditures
for furniture and equipment;
(iii)  100% of foreign expenditures for specialists' services
and 100% of total expenditures for fellowships; and
(iv)  65% of the cost of project unit staff referred to in para.
3.26 above --95% of total expenditures made until December
31, 1974 and 55% from January 1, 1975 to the closing date.
Savings in any category would be available to cover cost overruns in other
categories. Undisbursed funds would be available for cancellation unless
the Bank agrees that they would be used to finance other expenses related
to the project.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
points:
(i) preparation of an in-service training program for teachers
of science, industrial arts and home science, which will be
submitted to the Bank for comment within one year of the
Loan Agreement, and implementation of such program as from
January 1, 1975 (para. 3.10);
(ii)  establishment of an advisory body with membership including
employers, employees and Government, appointed by INA's
central board, in each of the four INA regional centers,
within one year of the Loan Agreement (para. 3.14);
(iii)  appointment of specialists in agricultural education and
home science education, under terms and conditions accept-
able to the Bank, within one year of the Loan Agreement
(para. 3.16);
(iv)  preparation of a fellowships program by the Ministry of
Education, in consultation with the Bank, within six months
of the Loan Agreement (para. 3.17);
(v) appointment of the architect, educator and procurement
officer for the project unit on a full-time basis within
six months of the Loan Agreement, the architect being
appointed in consultation with the Bank (para. 3.26); and



- 18 -
(vi) all legal steps will be taken for acquisition of sites
for the project institutions in due time for building
design (para. 3.28).
4.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan are the estab-
lishment of a project unit in the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
and the appointment of the project director on a full-time basis, in con-
sultation with the Bank (para. 3.26).
4.03      A condition of disbursement for the project item concerning the
vocational training centers is a legal agreement between the Government and
INA, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.27).
4.04      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$6.2 million to Costa Rica for a term of 30 years, including a grace
period of 10 years.



APPENDIX I
Page 1
COSTA RICA
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Introduction
1.        The National Plan for Educational Development (1972-1980), published
in 1971, was the culmination of an intensive study of the achievements and
shortcomings of education in Costa Rica up to 1970. While fully recognizing
the significant advances made in primary and to a lesser extent in secondary
education, the study identified the following deficiencies: (a) the lack of
any coordinated plan for educational development and the haphazard way in
which the system had evolved;       (b) the ineffectiveness of a highly central-
ized administration; (c) inequalities of educational opportunities as between
urban and rural communities; (d) inefficiencies in the system occasioned by
high rates of dropout and repetition; (e) excessive emphasis on academic
subjects within the formal education system; and (f) imbalance between
academic and vocational enrollments.
2.        The main objectives of the Plan relate therefore to: (a) restruc-
turing of the system of primary and secondary education into a nine years
basic general education, followed by three years of diversified secondary
education with increased options; (b) expansion of educational opportunities
with special regard to the rural areas; (c) expansion in the pre-primary
and lower secondary levels and in vocational education in the upper second-
ary level; (d) strengthening of pre-vocational teaching in the lower second-
ary level; (e) qualitative improvements throughout the national system;
and (f) more efficient central administration and decentralization of edu-
cational services.
Administration
3.        Responsibility for all public primary and secondary education in-
stitutions is vested in the Ministry of Public Education. Private schools
in the primary and secondary sectors account for 6% and 13% respectively of
total enrollments; they are supervised by the Ministry and required to fol-
low the same curricula as public schools.
4.        Educational policy is determined by the Higher Council of Education,
whose chairman is the Minister of Education.  Prior to the publication of
the National Plan for Educational Development which inter alia restructures
educational administration, the service remained highly centralized with a
Vice-Minister, a senior Technical Officer and a number of sectional dir-
ectorates advising the Mlinister on all aspects of the service. Regional
Directorates, normally responsible for education in their respective areas,
exercised purely administrative functions. While in theory school building
is the joint responsibility of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry
of Public Works and Transport, the latter has in practice taken over this
function.



APPENDIX I
Page 2
5.        The University of Costa Rica is an autonomous institution governed
by a University Assembly, a University Council and administered by its
Rector. Until the creation of the Technical Agricultural School at Santa
Clara in 1970, the Institute of Technology at Cartago in 1971, and the
National University in 1973, the University of Costa Rica was the only
autonomous educational institution in the country.
6.        Non-formal education is provided by the Ministry of Education
(adult education and literacy programs); by INA (apprenticeship and upgrad-
ing courses); and by the Ministries of Agriculture, Health, Labor, and
Culture, Youth and Sport, all of which provide extension and complementary
education services.
7.        In the field of administration the National Plan for Educational
Development sets three objectives: (1) to reform the structure of the
Ministry of Education; (2) to decentralize its services, and (3) to co-
ordinate the functions of the several Ministries and agencies involved in
education.
Structure of the Mlinistry of Education (Chart 1)
8.        Following consultative meetings with ICAP (Instituto Centro-
Americano de Administracion Publica) in 1972, a new structure has been intro-
duced for the Ministry of Education, effective from 1973. Its principal
features are: (1) executive powers will remain with the Higher Council of
Education, advised by the Mfinister; (2) the two principal divisions of the
Ministry, technical and administrative, will each be headed by a Vice-
Minister (previously one Vice-Minister and a Senior Technical Officer);
(3) the Technical Vice Minister will exercise his functions through three
General Directorates: Educational Development (qualitative and quantitative
planning and course evaluation); Education (all aspects of formal, non-formal
and special education at all levels); and Regional Services (coordination
of the work of the Regional Directorates); and (4) the Vice-Minister for
Administrative Services will operate through Finance, Personnel and General
Services departments. The new structure will strengthen the planning aspects
of the Ministry (in contradistinction to its hitherto largely administra-
tive functions) and will help develop clearly defined links with the newly
decentralized regional directorates.
Decentralization
9.        The concept of a highly centralized education service does not
correspond to the intention of the Plan to encourage local initiative and
the development of education strategy at the regional level. Accordingly,
the Plan replaces the fourteen Regional Administrators by Regional Directors
of Education (the change of title is in itself significant) who will assume
direct responsibility for all aspects, short of major policy decisions, of
the education service in their regions.



APPENDIX I
Page 3
10.       In most regions, mirroring the new structure of the central
authority, the Regional Director will be assisted by a technical and an
administrative branch, which will jointly constitute an Advisory Committee
for him. The Technical Branch will be responsible for inspection, super-
vision and guidance in all schools offering pre-primary or basic education
in grades 1 - 9. Given the smaller number of upper secondary schools
(grades 10 - 12) and the specialized nature of their programs, regions will
be grouped together for supervisory purposes under a corps of specialist
inspectors.
11.       In each region, there will be a Community Council, comprising
representatives of district education councils and parents' associations
and constitutionally linked to the regional administrative service; its
role will be to promote active community interest and participation in the
educational process.
12.       A key development in the concept of decentralization will be the
development of nuclear or regionalized schools in accordance with,local
needs. Thus, third cycle (former lower secondary - grades 7-9) schools
will be established in central areas and will draw their students from the
group of primary (grades 1 - 6) schools in the vicinity. In like fashion,
graduates from grade 9 will be able to choose academic or technical programs
from a smaller group of fourth cycle (former upper secondary - grades 10-12)
schools serving the region. The development of a plan to meet regional
needs will be one of the prime responsibilities of the Regional Director
of Education.
13.       Implicit in this structure is the need to train regional staff in
their new functions. With the collaboration of ICAP and UNESCO, two
courses have already been held (July - September, and October - November,
1972); others are under preparation.
Coordination
14.       The Government is well aware of problems arising from lack of
coordinated planning, and is acting to resolve them: (i) coordinating
committees both at national and regional levels have been appointed to
integrate the work of the respective divisions; (ii) a coordinating comr-
mittee has been appointed to determine the functions and areas of responsi-
bility of the UCR, other higher education institutions, and INA in respect
of manpower needs and training programs; and (iii) the Ministry of Education
is studying the financial implications of the development plan for education
in order to make better use of additional teachers and bring the construc-
tion of new schools in line with budgetary constraints.
Structure of Education
15.       In accordance with the Plan, the school system of formal education
now comprises four levels (Chart 2): (i) one or two years of pre-primary



APPENDIX I
Page 4
education; (ii) basic education, divided into three cycles of three years
each, compulsory in the first six grades (primary) and gradually so in the
last three (lower secondary); (iii) three years of diversified education
(upper secondary) with several course options; and (iv) two to seven years
of higher education. Formal education normally begins between the ages of
six and seven. All pre-primary, primary and secondary education is free.
Pre-Primary Education
16.       In 1971, enrollments, almost entirely in urban areas, reached
7,300 (75% of pre-primary institutions were State provided).
Primary Education
17.       Primary education is free and compulsory.  Total enrollment in
1971 was 357,100 (Annex 3), representing 108% of the corresponding age group
but 84% if overage and underage students are discounted. The ratio of boys
to girls was 51:49. The introduction of automatic promotion and of special
recuperative and guidance courses, designed to limit repetition and dropouts,
is expected to reduce the rate of enrollment growth in primary schools by
1980, while increasing to 97% the actual age-group participation (Annex 4).
Primary school teachers in 1971 numbered 12,280, a student/teacher ratio of
alLiost 30:1. Mlany classes are greatly in excess of this size, the proportion
being distorted by a considerable number of remote village schools with in-
evitably lower student/teacher ratios.  Most primary school teachers (86%)
are (qualified normal school graduates (Annex 7), of those listed as unquali-
fied, a number (550), have qualifications which are not sufficient for fully
qualified status; 1,200 (10%) have no qualifications. The National Plan for
Educational Development envisages considerable changes in the content and
methodology of grades 1 - 6 programs with a lengthened school day (27 hours
per week) and "a center of interest" approach to studies, grouped around
science/maths, language/social studies, aesthetic education, practical subj-
ects, religion and five optional periods, the latter to be used at the dis-
cretion of school directors for civics, group activities and recuperative
courses. Physical education and syllabus integration is planned. For all
of these reforms, a heavy program of teacher in-service training is being
prepared.
Secondary Education
18.       Under the pre-plan system, secondary education consisted of a
lower cycle (grades 7 - 9) and an upper or diversified cycle of two years
(grades 10-11) for academic courses or of three years (grades 10-12) for
vocational courses. Grades 7-9 in the new plan form part of the nine-year
basic education course. Following grade 9, there would be secondary edu-
cation in the form of three-year programs. To the existing options in
specialist (grades 10-12) schools -- academic, industrial, commercial and
agricultural -- will be added new paramedical, communications, and art
options. Secondary enrollments in 1971 were unbalanced both in terms of



APPENDIX I
Page 5
retention rates between grades 9 and 10 and especially in the proportion of
academic and vocational students (Annex 3); of the 86,000 enrollments in all
forms of secondary education (26% of the relevant age group), 74% were in
the lower cycle and 26% in the upper cycle; 92% were in academic schools
and only 8% in vocational schools. Just over half of the enrollments were
boys; 13% of the students were in private institutions. Efficiency within
the system was impaired by high rates of repetition (in 1970 only 28% of
students completed the course in the stipulated time) while dropouts amounted
to 26% in the first year and 54% by the end of grade 12.
19.       The new Plan projects both quantitative and qualitative improvements
at this level. By 1980, enrollments in grades 7-12 would rise to 150,000;
however, in the light of updated information, the mission believes that it
would probably rise to 200,000 (Annex 4), an increase of 134% over 1971
figures. Over the same period, according to the mission, enrollments in
pre-vocational and vocational schools would increase to 34,000 (370% increase
over 1971 figures). As a percentage of the age-group population, there
would then be 47% in grades 7-12.
20.       New curricula and methodological techniques are in active prepara-
tion for both these cycles. In academic programs, a balanced sciences and
industrial arts, or home science timetable will avoid too early specializa-
tion and resultant restrictions in future career decisions. In vocational
programs, specialized studies will be matched by an academic content
sufficient to ensure ready access to higher education as well as sound
preparation for students entering employment at this level. There will be
increased emphasis on mathematics, sciences and practical subjects; guidance
counselors will assist students in making appropriate course and careers
choices. The implementation of these programs will require the provision
of practical and science facilities lacking in many schools.
21.       In 1971, there were 3,500 secondary teachers (Annex 7) of whom
69% were fully qualified, 17% had qualifications insufficient for full re-
cognition, and 14% were unqualified. To meet the expected 1980 enrollments,
a further 4,000 teachers will be required for grades 7-12. Since the esti-
mated output from teacher-training institutions through 1980 is lower, an
intensive program of in-service training will be needed to upgrade surplus
primary teachers and to reorient secondary teachers toward these new
approaches.
Higher Education
22.       In 1971, enrollments in the University of Costa Rica reached
15,700 (52% women), principally in the Faculties of Sciences and Humanities,
Education, Law, Economics, Engineering and Agriculture. A high dropout
rate occurs during the first year. MIany undergraduates are part-time.
The UCR is planning to develop regional centers which are being surveyed
with IDB assistance. Two regional centers, at San Ramon and Liberia, are
already in operation, but enrollments are low. Other higher education



APPENDIX I
Page 6
institutions include the new National University, the Technical School of
Agriculture and the National School of Nursery.
Teacher Training
23.       All teacher training in Costa Rica is at post-secondary level,
at present two-years for primary teachers, mostly in four Normal Schools
(Ileredia, Liberia, San Ramon and San Isidro), though a few are trained at
the University; and four years for secondary teachers.
24.       Automatic promotion and the restructuring of the education system
would produce by 1980, on the basis of present estimates, a surplus of pri-
mary teachers of the order of 1,600 (Annex 7), and a deficit, estimated at
2,000, of secondary teachers. The government plans, however, to lengthen
the primary teacher training program from two to three years, in order to
improve the personal and professional education of trainee teachers, and
in both pre-service and in-service programs to divert considerable numbers
of teachers to upper level preparation courses. Such measures will enable
the government to match teacher supply and demand by concentrating on
qualitative rather than quantitative criteria. They will also ensure that
specialist teachers and administrators are available for the new teaching
programs and for school and regional administration. A new approach to
teacher training, based on a "credits" system, will improve the present
bala;nce between general education, special studies and professional training.
25.       To relieve the pressure for places at the University, the
higher Normal School at Heredia was established by law in 1968 to conduct
a four-year training program for secondary teachers and in-service training
courses as required. Lack of facilities (with the exception of seven
classrooms and a shared library, the school uses the premises of the adjacent
Normal School) with consequent limitations in student contact hours, which
in 1970 averaged 22 per week, have hampered progress. Enrollments are high,
but output both in regular and short courses is disappointing, with high
dropout rates:
1970
Total Enrollments   Output
Full-time courses:                                         949             71
In-service courses                                         357             74
In 1970, out of an initial enrollment of 1,069, some 120 failed to complete
the year. The Higher Normal School, together with the four Normal Schools,
have now been integrated into the National University, a new autonomous
institution created by law in February 1973. The broad objectives of the
new University include education, research and extension in all fields of
knowledge. Until the governing bodies are legally established within two
years, the University will be organized and administered by an ad-hoc
Conmission.



APPENDIX I
Page 7
Technical Education
26.       Industrial and commercial education are provided in six fourth-
cycle (grades 10-12) schools with a total enrollment of 2,023 students in
1971 (31% women). One non-public school (Don Bosco Technical Institute)
also enrolls 365 students. These schools are being expanded both in size
and number under a project of the Inter-American Development Bank. The
commercial students follow a weekly schedule of from 36 to 39 periods,
20 of which are in their vocational speciality. The industrial student
weekly schedule provides 40 periods, 20 of which are in the vocational
speciality and two in technical drawing. The industrial and commercial
fourth cycle is three years in length. From 76% to 90% of graduates are
employed in the field for which they are trained; 10% - 15% continue their
education and 3% - 5% enter other occupations. The new plan of studies
for "diversified education" increases the time in the vocational specialty
to 20, 26 and 30 periods in the first, second and third years of the fourth
cycle, respectively.
27.       Middle level technician training does not exist in Costa Rica.
Ilowever, the Institute of Technology, Cartago, established by law in 1971,
will enroll its first class of 200 students in iarch 1973, and its first
graduates will appear in November 1975.  The plan of studies provides for
a general preparatory year followed by two years in an area of technical
specialization. Present plans are to offer specialties in construction,
electronic, electro-mechanical and forestry technology. An application
has been made for a grant from the Inter-American Development Bank to make
the necessary surveys and plan the development of this institution.
28.       The education of professional engineers is the responsibility of
the Faculty of Engineering, UCR, which offers courses in civil, electrical,
mechanical, chemical and industrial engineering. Curricula in the Faculty
of Engineering are being reviewed and it is difficult to determine the
annual output of engineers. However, the College of Engineers of Costa
Rica, in which most practicing engineers and architects hold membership,
has about 600 members. Shortages exist in civil and construction engineers
and the University does not appear to be able to meet the demand. Demand
and supply seem to be in reasonable balance in electrical and mechanical
engineering. Output exceeds demand in chemical engineering.
Agriculture and Home Science Education
29.       Agriculture and home science education are offered at the lower
secondary (third-cycle, grades 7 - 9) rural schools (Institutos de
Capacitacion Tecnica). Three of these schools were established in 1971
(Jicaral, Aguas Zarcas and Buenos Aires) and eight, in 1972 (Nandayure,
Hojancha, La Suiza, Pacayas, Los Chiles, Upala, Puerto Viejo and Santa Maria);
all of them are located in rural areas lacking provision for grades 7 - 9.
They are planned to offer programs basically parallel with those in academic
schools but with a pre-vocational component in agriculture or home science
relevant to the needs of the area. A special and innovative feature is the



APPENDIX I
Page 8
provision of facilities for the development of community activities and
extension work. They would, thus (i) alleviate acute enrollment pressures,
(ii) contribute to rural development programs, and (iii) assist in the
equalization of educational opportunity, objectives clearly defined in the
educational development plan. The introduction of agriculture and home
science subjects in the curricula is not intended to provide specialized
training for technician positions, but to provide students with a better
understanding of the rural environment and some basic skills, with the
understanding that these can be further improved through non-formal training.
30.       At present, the vocational content of the curriculum appears to be
high (20 periods a week out of a total of 42). At least for a few years,
the majority of the students will be unable to proceed to higher levels of
education because of lack of opportunity, and that the new courses will provide
a better preparation for the world of work in the rural environment, and may
become eventually instruments of change from traditional agriculture to modern
farming. Under present circumstances, the curriculum can be accepted, as a
transitional step, during the first years of development of these schools.
Other activities are designed to meet the over-all objectives of these rural
schools, i.e. (i) non-formal courses offered to improve skills among.
farmers and homemarkers; (ii) community activities directed to serve social
needs; and (iii) participation in rural development activities in coopera-
tion with other public and private organizations. The schools have been
located in areas where agriculture is the main economic activity and where
no previous lower secondary school existed but a large supply of primary
school leavers is available. An important aspect in the selection of areas
has been the eagerness for the school shown by the community and its attitude
to participate in the program -- e.g., provision of free land, construction
or allocation of temporary quarters, furniture, teaching materials, etc.
31.       It is expected that the existing lower secondary (third cycle)
rural schools will evolve into upper secondary (fourth cycle) agricultural
schools during the 1970s; at least three of them (Jicaral, Aguas Zarcas
and Buenos Aires) by 1974. By then, the vocational courses at the third-
cycle (grades 7 - 9) level would be substantially reduced. It is also
expected that, with the experience gained, the government will be in a
better position to establish rural development centers based on these
schools.
32.       Students entering the lower secondary rural schools are primary
school leavers from the locality and from the neighboring communities.  Agri-
cultural. teachers are graduates from the Higher Normal School and a few agri-
cultural technicians with pedagogical training; 80% of them are qualified
teachers (Annex 7). A new program for teachers is being considered in which
the students who have completed the two-year course at the post-secondary
Technical Agricultural School (Escuela Tecnica Agricola) will take a special



APPENDIX I
Page 9
program of studies at the Higher Normal School on pedagogy and on the
methodology of teaching agriculture. Home science teachers are graduates from
the Higher Normal School and a few of them from fourth-cycle agricultural
schools with some pedagogic training; 87% of them are qualified teachers
(Annex 7). The number of schools, student enrollment and number of teachers
are as follows:
1971         1972         1980
(estimate)
No. of Schools                                   3           11           11
Student Enrollment                            388        1,509        4,800
-    Male                                190          742        2,400
-    Female                              198          767        2,400
No. of Teachers                                39          122           230
-    Academic                             24           64          120
-    Agriculture                           8           30           55
-    Home Science                          7           28           55
33.       In addition to the eleven third-cycle rural schools referred to
above, there are eight secondary agricultural schools (grades 7-12) which
offer agriculture and home science programs at the third-cycle (grades
7-9) level. In 1971, the total enrollment at this level was 2,297 (Annex 3)
comprising 1,909 students in the secondary agricultural schools (grades 7-9)
and 388 students in the three above mentioned rural schools.
34.       Agriculture and Home Science education at upper secondary level
(fourth-cycle, grades 10-12) are offered in nine agricultural schools
(Institutos Agropecuarios). As already stated, eight of these schools also
offer agriculture and home science programs at third-cycle level; one (private
school) offers only a fourth-cycle program. These schools are located in
important rural areas (Puriscal, Liberia, Osa, Siquirres, Orotina, Coto Brus,
Pococi, Juntas and Santa Clara) and all of them except one (Osa) are receiv-
ing financial and technical assistance from IDB. The total enrollment was
764 in 1971 (Annex 3) and 2,540 in 1972. The weekly schedule provides 40
periods per week, of wlhich 20, 20 and 32 periods in the first, second and
third years of the fourth cycle, respectively, are in agriculture or home
science.
35.       Agricultural education at the post-secondary, technician level is
offered at the Technical Agricultural School (Escuela Tecnica Agricola) in
Santa Clara. This school was created by law in 1970 with the purpose of
training, in a two-year program, technicians for management and extension
work. The capacity of the school is for 110 students, all of them residents.
The program started in 1971 with 60 students and 11 professors; the enroll-
ment in 1972 was 110. An output of 50 per year is envisaged. The physical
facilities are excellent, and the laboratories and workshops are very well



APPENDIX I
Page 10
equipped. The school is receiving financial and technical assistance from
USAID. The Ministry of Agriculture and the UCR in a well coordinated
effort are supporting this technical agricultural school.   A second school
of this type which would specialize in animal husbandry is in the planning
stage. There is no home science teaching program at post-secondary, tech-
nician level, but the Ministry of Agriculture is interested in establishing
one in Guanacaste for which financial aid is being sought.
36.       At the University level, the Faculty of Agriculture, UCR, offers a
degree of "Ingeniero Agronomo" and graduates approximately 15 students per
year. The graduates are in great demand and are employed as managers, re-
search assistants, supervisors for agricultural extension, credit, marketing,
agro-industry, agro-business, agricultural services, etc. It is estimated
that at least 50 agricultural graduates per year are needed for the next
15-20 years and the facilities, curriculum and staff of the Faculty of Agri-
culture are being improved with financial and technical assistance from
IDB and USAID. No home science education programs exist in Costa Rica at
the University level. At the post-graduate level, the University of Costa
Rica is planning to offer the degree of Master. The Teaching and Research
Center of the Interamerican Institute of Agricultural Sciences (IICA) at
Turrialba, is being transferred to the Government. The Ministry of Agricul-
ture will establish there a multinational, regional research center and
the UCR will develop a post-graduate program. Assistance from IICA and
possibly from other sources is being sought.
Non-Formal Education
37.       The main agencies concerned with non-formal education are the
Ministry of Education and INA (National Institute of Apprenticeship). In
1971, enrollments in adult evening classes organized by the Ministry
totalled 7,300. Programs in the main were at primary level with some
literacy courses. In the same year INA enrollments in a variety of skill
training and upgrading programs reached 6,300. Extension programs in
agriculture, health and nutrition are offered by the Ministries of Agricul-
ture, Health, Labour and Social Welfare, and Culture, Youth and Sport.
38.       INA is responsible for vocational training of out of school youth
and adults in specific occupations. INA operates as an autonomous body
within the Ministry of Labour and is financed by a one percent payroll tax
on the salaries paid by industrial and commercial enterprises with 5 or more
employees and by autonomous and semi-autonomous bodies with total annual
salaries of 500,000 or more. INA operates one training center in La Uruca,
near San Jose and is planning to decentralize its services by establishing
four regional training centers. In addition, ItIA is planning to establish
its headquarters in San Jose, where some facilities for vocational training
in commerce and services will be provided. The Agency's Human Resources
Department has identified 800 occupations from which 111 have been selected
on a priority basis. INA now has 124 courses classified into seven different
types of training in operation.  In 1972, total enrollment was 6,360 trainees



APPENDIX I
Page 11
and the annual output of all courses had reached 12,488. The types of
courses and results through 1972 are:
Enrollment      Total
Type of Training          Description                1972         Output
"Aprendizaje"             Apprenticeship, three years
duration, 22 months at INA,
10 months on-the-job
training                        1,064         643
"Habilitacion"            Short courses in evening or
late afternoon to increase
workers' skill                     522       4,087
"Complementacion"         Courses to provide skilled
and semi-skilled training to
already employed workers        3,742       3,825
"Especializacion"         Very short courses with
specific focus for employed
industrial workers                  46         311
"Promocion"               Courses for skilled workers
who may be promoted - e.g.
shop foreman                       100         104
"Nivelacion Previa"       To raise student level to
permit acceptance to regular
programs                           154          11
"Extension Social'        Courses for women related to
home living competence             732      3,507
TOTALS                                            6,360      12,488



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I



APPENDIX II
Page 1
COSTA RICA
EDUCATION FINANCE
1.        Public education and training from pre-primary through upper
secondary school is almost completely financed by the Central Government,
although local authorities (Juntas de Educacion) help by providing sites
and labor for school construction. Current expenditures are defrayed by
the Ministry of Education while investment expenditures are made mainly by
the Ministry of Public Works and Transport. The budget of institutions for
higher education is also independent of the Ministry of Education. The Univ-
ersity of Costa Rica is entitled by law to secure annually at least 10% of
the Ministry of Education budget directly from the Central Government and,
in addition, in 1972, the University was subsidized by an extra 5% of the
Ministry of Education budget. The National Institute of Apprenticeship (INA),
an autonomous organization, is financed mainly by a 1% payroll tax levied on
private employers with five workers or more and from autonomous and semi-
autonomous public organizations (e.g. public utility companies) with an
annual wage bill of 05O0,000 or more. Private education is negligible both
in terms of enrollments and expenditures. Virtually no private school re-
ceives financial aid from the government.
2.        Considerable expansion in the education system during the past ten
years has created a heavy financial burden on the Government. In 1971,
(Annex 8) public expenditure on education absorbed 5.2% of GDP against 4.7%
in 1967, and 27.7% of total Government expendftures, which is similar to
or higher than those of other Latin American countries with higher per
capita GDP (Chile: 5.2% and 29.0%; Venezuela 4.9% and 22.0%, respectively).
Public education expenditures per capita amounted to $30 in 1971, as com-
pared with a range of S8 to $26 in other Central American and Carib-
bean countries. This relatively high figure may be explained by such facts
as: (i) teachers' salaries comparable with those of the private sector; (ii)
better quality of education; and (iii) low defense expenditures which allow
use of resources for social objectives.
3.       W4hile total education expenditure were high, education claimed
only 4% of public investment during 1967-1971, as compared with 10-20% in
many other developing countries. Practically no investment has been made
in secondary vocational education and teacher training during this period,
although enrollments have doubled; hence many students are now accommodated
in temporary or inadequate facilities.
4.        Including capital expenditures defrayed by the Ministry of Public
Works and Transport, the Ministry of Education expenditure rose 15% p.a.
between 1967 and 1971, while total public education expenditure (including
INA and higher education) grew by only 14% p.a. (Annex 8). As a result,
the share of the Ministry of Education in public education expenditures in-
creased from 83.2% in 1967 to 86.0% in 1971. Recurrent expenditures were
distributed in 1971 as follows: 65.5% in primary schools; 23.8% in second-
ary academic schools; 5.2% in secondary vocational schools; 1.3% in special



APPENDIX 1II
Page 2
education (for the handicapped, adults, etc.); 1.2% in teacher training; and
3.0% in the central office (Annex 9). The share of vocational education is
exceptionally small and is divided equally between technical and agricul-
tural schools. Recurrent costs per student in 1971 stood at $82 for primary
school; $139 for secondary academic schools; $333 for vocational schools;
$286 for special education and $237 for teacher training, which is at an in-
termediate level among Latin American countries (Annex 10). The high cost
in vocational training reflects its inception and costs are expected to de-
cline with improvement of internal efficiency.
5.        One problem of the educational system is that quantitative expan-
sion was not always accompanied by improvement in quality and efficiency.
Wlile enrollments were growing less than 6% p.a. during 1967-1971 (Annex 4),
Ministry of Education expenditures rose 15%' p.a. (Annex 8). Several factors
contributed to the inefficiency of the system: (i) relatively low completion
rate (65% in primary school and 46% in secondary school); (ii) diseconomies
of the small size of schools and (iii) underutilization of teachers because
of early retirement, low teaching loads and relatively low student/teacher
ratios in less populated areas. These factors are also responsible for
the excessive concentration of resources on salaries and allowances (over
957 of the Ministry of Education recurrent expenditures) and the resultant
inadecuate allocations for school materials. School maintenance is the
responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport and appears
satisfactory.
6.        The National Institute of Apprenticeship, which accounts for
about 3.67 of total public education expenditure (Annex 8), has increased
its revenue 2n7 p.a. As revenue collected in 1971 approaches the upper
lIrmit of potential revenue, an amendment to the law in November 1971 expanded
the training-tax base from private employers hiring more than 10 workers
'-o private employers with five workers or more. This brought a sounder
financlal prospect to the Institute since more than 80% of all establishments
in Costa Rica have 10 or less workers. The revenue of the Institute is
expeczed to grow at least at 10% p.a. up to 1980 and the Institute's future
activities are programmed within a balanced budget, without receiving any
government subsidy (Annex 11). The annual cost per student in INA courses
was around US1J400 in 1967, but declined to about US8230 in 1971. These
costs are expected to be further reduced by 1980 even with higher quality
of training due mainlv to economies of scale and shifts of emphasis to less
expensive training courses.
7.        The institutions for higher education are autonomous organizations
established bv special laws allocating them 10.4% of total public education
expenditure in 1971 (Annex 8). The relatively low student fee (annually
01,040 per student in the UCR) accounts for only a small fraction of the
university budget.
8.        The quantitative targets set in the National Plan for Educational
Development for 1975 and 1980 are shown below:



APPENDIX II
Page 3
1970                     1980            Enrollment
% of
Level           Enrollments   % of       Enrollments   % of        Increase/
Age-group                Age-group  Decrease
Total             441,923                 515,000
Pre-primary             7,500       13.3        20,000     33.3        +166.7
1st and 2nd cycles   346,696        83.3      326,500      96.7        -  9.5
3rd cycle              58,944       34.1      112,300      59.1        + 90.5
4th cycle              18,822       17.9       56,200      44.1        +198.6
Based upon enrollment targets, the Plan document
presents the need for new teachers as follows:
Level                    1972-73           1974-75            1976-80
Pre-primary                     60                80               220
1st and 2nd cycles             195             -167               -653
3rd cycle                     615                735               766
Diversified (4th) cycle        151               410               907
Total                  1021              1 058               240
The Plan envisages its goals being achieved with an educational budget
in 1980 of only 21% of total government expenditures.  This assumes that
enrollment in primary school would be reduced due to: (i) a leveling off
in the increase of the corresponding age group; and (ii) the introduction
of automatic promotion. Pupils will be retained at the end of the final
or third year of each cycle only if they are seriously below the required
standards. Present practice is to retain students at the end of each year,
which builds up a backlog of repeaters (Annex 6).
9.        However, (i) the population projection which had been the basis
of enrollment projection in the Educational Plan has proven to be an under-
estimate; (ii) automatic promotion may not really start to influence en-
rollments until 1976 because of the concentration of repeaters in the
lower grades; (iii) the cost of lower secondary school, which is expanding,
would offset the possible savings accruing from primary school due to the
decline in the rate of enrollment growth; (iv) the Plan estimates do not
reflect the expansion of non-formal education as foreseen in the qualita-
tive terms in the Plan; and (v) it is unrealistic to believe that the ratio
of government expenditure to GDP will grow as rapidly as envisaged. The
higher enrollment projection has already been proven true in 1971 and 1972.
Enrollments in primary education will continue to increase and enrollments
in secondary level will grow at a higher rate than the Plan estimates (Annex
4). On these assumptions, the mission expects that total public expenditure
on education would increase from the present 5.2% to 5.5% of GDP and the
share of Ministry of Education in total Government expenditure would remain
at the present 24% level, instead of declining as in the Plan (Annex 8).



APPENDIX II
Page 4
10.       Most capital expenditures in education would be for programs of
the Ministry of Education, especially for the expansion of secondary schools.
The mission believes that, even by ensuring higher utilization of facilities,
the mission's projected increase in enrollments by 1980 would require
US$90 million 1/, or US$10 million a year, in order to provide proper facil-
ities, equipment and furniture. In view of low capital expenditures in
the past and a high Government priority on school facilities, the mission
expects that the Government can afford about US$27 million, or US$3.0
million a year, for capital expenditure in 1971-1980. This, however, would
cover only the basic classrooms for the increase in enrollment by 1980.
School libraries, workshops, equipment and other auxiliary facilities would
require additional external financing.
1/   Complete facilities at IBRD cost estimates.



% 11 IMP   'L .9 T-L ftl-7  ftl-.i  S.-..d."                                                            Hish%. E.-  A-1 tp-
-d t.   bl    2- I- St."   ft-11-t .11-t                                                              t.11-t i. t_ "gl_
Lil.                                                                        P.'           ui,                 i.        '_h_            Agi-lt... 14--i
GSP/C&PiTA    Ul.              -  C.,Ll.   (ftbli.                M..Id 1. -L.    T ... h-    Nt                           V..11-1 fttlli_                    -d              P-
(% f           (-.t                                           ft                                       Bh-l.   1q.1-1-  ftgj-g 100,000
T.-     (WiLli-.)           (M            Ad.1t.)          Pti...                                                                                                                                  pm.l.ti-
(3)           (4)                (5)                                                                                                      (12)
(1)                                                                                           (7)          (3)          (9)              (10)
AJW"Cw
CA-i- -d--tL- dt. - ---f-1 L. tb.
f -i                                                                                 69           7.41           2'010 F        99               73                 4.3              9-1.1)       99          24            46              60             12              '24              17
70          21.4F           I'm    P       93              309                                22                         25            80D             12E           17
3                                                                                                        9             513
d=.l        t b..::   -j-    -       ti...  R--                       F.d.  tp.                  6           61.6P           2,9                              S$                3:1                               S        ga           66              28                                             230
A         h       nlpdn.' -        .-      J.P..                                 69         101.4            1,920F          99               50                3.              21.           9'                        9.              20             21               21             306
i -  I"  I                        '                                                                                                                                                          20.5
L ... PAf,   .  h.  d b            -h.d  ith                                              69           MOv             2,43.         '9              lao                l.2                 0          11D         3             66              41            19                23             230
'Tt -ti- .  D.t.  t..-t.d I. IM  f.ll--                      N_                                    71    i      2.8F           2.7oOF          9               11                 4.5H            Ifi.5x        99           27           68                                                             2d 7
-hi. hl b-    -11--d 1.-L, b,                                                                                      W                            1.9                 I.,                           '9           2'_                              3          I                22              64C
B.I,    4:              99              2-1.               1 1             14:6          11D          La           15                             11                 0             80
t=              ft- 9--    -dl..;f1h.                         a_-                                                                040
t."    -     tAff -.-    -          '   '_             Uii.d                                 69          55 7            2 270F          97               9                 5:8             I3 1          98           28           5                 5C           Is                16            las3
-_  Ello,l: h-    '-  I                 ,                  U.S.A.                                70         204:8            4:760F          99              253                5.8             L6                         25           1'4            ...             20                 7            320
di..                -d.   ihi. I-it.
.h.-k lb. At..-.1 f th. d.t.
I..    ..b d_                                                EUROM
.P-i. -d th. B          i. -ti_  I.                   L 0                                   71           ..I            1,U9U           K.               23                2:.2            19.3E                     33E           59E             1.             31E              141             867
pt.-  th-  11.9 ... 1- ly -  th. 0-.L..                      2:I                                  69           2.9P           1,,360P         98               58                4                1.4         I'll          33           54 YC            2'            L7                LIS           13A
.f it.                         1. lb. _.  f                  3.  9  L.                             7.           3.6            Iozo            94D              zo                2.4             t2.5E         91            5                           22
th.                                                                                                                                                                                                           3             29                            3.                19              31C
.h-Id b. -    L.   id:                                      Allum
4.   I.. L.                          70          13.3               2T7          25B              31                P.a             -              73          42            11              20            io                 6
t.1.11  "Ed ..               d.lI..l 1. th.                  5:C                                   7.           5.3               Lao                            1                3 0             wo            7            69             S                            25                 4
i..     .                                                                                                                                                                  4               20 0          73,         64                            I:             30
I.d.     1              -d                        6 C. A. R.                            70            1.6              140         ..:                I                                                                          4
f- I -d                                                      7.Chd                                              3.6                60           7                311              4.3S            L4.3          33           72             2                            30
a.C.. (E)                            70           ..9              300          so2                                5S              23.2           .0.         59            i3              LO            28
d.-1-  t.f.-  '.  d.-                9.   thi.,i.                          71          24:561              I            7                3                4:.1            1             1            51             5               2            34
h. fill, I'll,                                 lo.                                                      1           63oF          30 D?            11C               3.3C                          765          40E          10              is             I9
:= t        -f-    1. .11  d:11lt7'_lTlllhlrl              LI.  Gh-.                              7.           S                 'jo          ...              13                47              21.7          74           29                             4            1                 L15E            13E
7            -S.ldl...  f ty,.                        12:  L---, C,-                         68           L4.9              310F          9A              lo                4:2C            20.4           44          46                             8            23
-1_          '-1.                                       L          -                           7.           1.3V             150F         mD                   a              5.3u           20.0           64                        I                                                                   A
14.  Lib.,.                                                                                                                                                                  10               2                              29b              1
70           1:5              24           15                                 3:7S                7          'D          11            12X              6            16                12C
"V.-L-.L" d ... ti.. (..l. L.)                  15.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IC
7.                            23.          20                I                4 1               ':4                                     2               3            22
16.  Z .. 1.                                                                                                             S          11             54          Is                            t                                3               7A
71          11.1I             iloI          ...              3                3,2             ...            34X         37             4              ta            23
17:                                                                                                i,                                                                                                                        11
h-.-                                                     69           3.9F             230           10                                 3 5             20.1          43X          46            1X             27B            25                   C
a                                    68            2:6F             L9F            7Y             4                 2.9            19.5C          3,2         30            13               7C           25                17              -7C
19.  5-11.                                          287               70F                           1                                 6                         'o             2               5             20               20               0A
4)  '%il Illy I---," ICII. 31                         20   sd-                                          57                L2U                            4                                    0B                                    2A                                             233             to
.11Y                   ..t                                               L.                                   I                               ...                 A                   0          22:'S          31x         4'A                            3c           '71
.b                                                     1:  T-                                71            33,              iwF          ...               4                4.5             16.4           37          45             2               6            29
..w               lb.y At. ..Iy  Ppl.xt-i_.                 22.  U,-d.                                                            130                                                                                                                                                     III               3
70           9 a                            25 A,            6                 5 N            24:3Q          46 S       3              4U             L51            2                 0               S
-d it L. d-btf.1 tb.t -y -Lf.-  Wi.i-                       23.  U ...  V.1t.                     12           5.4F               64F          5                2                                27 6           10          45             2                            23                 6               1
b... f.  -d                      24    Z.i                             70                             90          13                                  1.07S          19.            79          44             a              20             24               10                 S
S                                           ,8
21   I.                             71                            55           43                                                                59I                       12
i                      -                                                                        il                 5.6             17.4                       50                             5            17                7                2
C. AWM - WKIRRE-k
_,b                                             4  ,C.-   n-                           _7L            1.6             5 "F          89               3o                               27.7          84           29           26               a             25
"P' I"       -                                                                                               -                                 -                        5.2
(c.l.  4       1   f_.'                                    27.  D-iti-    R-P-ill              69             4.LF             350P          55                6                2,9F           17.0          so          5
111,lldll,lll dl,llld I                         28:M                                 69             3 5F             300           49 YA            lo B             3.0a                                       6           17               1            26                10              16C
P,                                                                                                                            3                                                              25:4 CQ        53C         310          15C             32E            ...              15C
..d                  S.-i.                                                                                            7P           3Y), 29  ba  5:2  6  6B            2.5R            7 6                      3 
Io.  J_I..                           6             1.9f             6             86               24                4.4            1                                                       22A            2                to               6
.1.. 7 -d 9)           31,  ftj_                           70                              67           76                                                19.1          86x          52           43               9                                              nA
11                           IC                                                                          I  7                                            1                  2              17.1q
.d  ... t.                                                            61             2oF             430          53               11.                2:'           I             71           46           19              23C            21               ii'c            22
,i.1d.d -d Tbn.                                                                                                                            so           36
":I         S"                       'i                                                           4o                                                                        13               8            23                20F
':b                          P L.. L           13                                                                                                                    3.4                                                                                                                    1
.f  ligibl-   ild-. ..-Il.d MI t                                                                                L.0F             860F                                               I                          P5          35            49              11                                              I
,h.  pp_'I.'. -1-t ,  ,tli -d pi... b,                                                                                                                                                                                                                             23                2P               4
1_1. _.y ._  fi- ..b I..' t, I ":: I---    lll                           11
gi.                                       t1i               34:        i                          69           92                420F          65              10                 3.2           14.0           64          31            1               27
-t               il-Y  f b..i,               3       't                          69
-i-gfl. -ii t-2: I- lh'".                                                                                                       7207          90              32                 5.4           29.0P          90F         40            I                             3
d.t.              -P_ifi.   "t_   -d -                    13 .J_bi.                             11                              14           1               12                 4.0           10.9           67D         36            1                              4                29              30
291.7                          3                                                                                                                          A             2: Cc
'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I              11                              1               35
li9lll:_fLll-llIY.             17  Ic,,I,,                                                         290 'F        68A                                3 2v          225C           71          3s                                          12
7 'h                                                                                                           37
-b                .1.               38,  G.,-.                                                                                                                                                                                   29a           LIA               2
hih-  th.                                                                                    1.             0.7                           11A              4                 5o            14:4          90           33                                                           39C
.11Y L. ..b_l.   -X.d                     h-     i.-      39.  -.-y                             71             14              26           19                5                 .2           1              S                                          3C            28                  C
I                                                                                ,t           I"                   0                                                             4             9           26
,1,,I-  1,         ,I,d 1, f-.l.. .1-  c-                   40:P                                                                  450F         72               2                                                                                                       is               12              31
L  I              L..                                                                                                                                                                            4.3           80          37            30              15                                             a,
.f  t.                                                     41   V- -I.                           70           10.4              980           at              4s                4.9            22.0           so          33            35                            22                23
32            22                is              59
AS IA
42:  Cb"    (-W-)                    ;I,          '14:1F             39'P          73              15                4:'2           19            987          52E          5Qr             16             351              271            179
di                                        3                    a7         29
43   L.                                             a IP             LI                                              2 A-           ...           79X         43A           28x              6AY           20 AY            11 Ay
44,  l d                               1         III:6P               807          56               1                2.3            L':.'r        ?7x         39            IS              26             18x               8              .!Z AY
45.                                  ;L                              38            37              it                3.1            I.            62          33            23               3             36               13
41:  I-q                             70                              320.'         M               19                6.7            16.3          64           22a          25                                                              3'
4,   J-                              70             2.3              250           15 11            7.1              4.6            17.1Q         90                                         3             2                I7              8.
t.                          71           31                2507             B           L3.a                                                        34            35               9             2                                4
3 6           MI            100I         5             46              4%            3
49.f,,b-                             71             2: a'F           59            :6F            21P                4:0            21.0                                    34              36             23               2S             117
1                                                                                                          1'u                                                                          L10
50:  1.y.i.                           0            0.9              380            1B            17                 4.7           19.59                                       x                                             4              2
S                                                                                   2                                                             891         3I            29               3            25
1                                   1.             6.9              210          7                6                               29.0          119x                       71                            36                11
70            2                920           75             3o                               16.1           90          32            40              16
I2.'i                                                 1                                                              3                                        30                             8                              1.             457
:27             2001                                                                                                                                 23               is             is
53.  Mi 1-                           71            36                             70               av               3:,'U          11 1           13X         34            23X
54.  T.,ky                           69            35.4              390F         49k              a                               L                                                        13            25                15              3
3              7:1           921         42            25x             14
55.  Y-          A-b Rpblt         71             3.8               83           to                 P              1.0P           9.4           12H                                                     33                26              4i
409            IR              3H           isH                                1
su f- D81910
MUNTRIES
f C-I..                                                        -49                                                 5s    56   56                                        55-   54                            49
(S.                                             r4.5-29.0)
t...:  Up'-                                                                   71                                                                                                      -49)         1146)            (1;029)
dL                                                                 55             10                4.0                                                                  (120
3                                                                                   is
-12                                                       20                to              22
N.t..:A 19:'5 O.f.-                                                                               S--- : C-1-  (1) -d (2)i   .Id Tbl.. (MRD) 7                                    
S.                                          E 19
0                I...  h-  h.lf  f -It I.Y-d                               C    1  7                               P I-a"lm  f.-it.  id                                                                                        Figt..
.. ii-bl'                                                             D  19                                   qct.                                                                                         im  m.d-.
1_1.d.. , _ii_                                                               I%9                                V    Pb i:1
F -1970                                                           --P--d lw-                        1-- (10)-(12) -d (13)1  ung
IW                                                                                           (11 St  'N",
G       1                              31 I                                                                                                              -.1
S -1972                                1 UMSOD
.h 16, IST3






COSTA RICA
Production, Employ1ment and Productivity
Annual Rate
of Change (percent)
1950    1963    196611  1950         15-6YI3 196-3-68 196 45O
GDP(US$ millions) .                227.9   5119.6   75.2  1297.1          6.5      6.6      5.1
Agriculture                     JT.T  155.9   I75    259.4                      177  I Y 87
Industry                         50.8   109.6   170.9   332.1          6.1      9,2      5.7
Services                         87.0   254.1   374.0   705.6          8.6      8.0      5.4
Employment (thousands)             263.2   372.0   472.8   7               2.7     5.0        6
Agriculture                     143.5   185.0   213.5   297.2          17       302.
Industry                         43.7    66.0    93.9   146.5          3.3      7.3      3.8
Services                         70.7   121.0   165.4   270.8          4.3      6.5      4.2
Productivity (TJS$ thousanda)/    865.9  1396.8  1512.6  1815.6            3.8     1.6      1.5
Agriculture                     605.5   642.7   797.1   t72.d           :      -102
Industry                       3162.5  1660.6  1820.0  2266.8           2. 8    1.9      1.9
Services                       1230.6  2100.0  2261.1  2605.6          4.2      1.5      1.2
Economically active population    272.0   400.0   494.0   768.2            31      4.3      3.8
(thousands)
As % of total population          31.7    29.3    31.0    34.9
Percentage of unemployment (%)        3.2     7.0     4.5      7.0
The period 1963-68 was irregular because of the eruption of the Irazu Volcano.
/ 1962 prices.
SOURCE:  Direccion General de Estadistica y Censo, Encuesta de Hogares por Muestreo: 1968,
OSUCA, Oferta y demanda recursos humanos en Centroamericaa 1966, and Mission
estimates.
December, 1972






AM=  2
COSTA RICA                            Page 1
1qyment by Industry - Occupation
(in thousands)
Total       Agriculture       Industry      Services
'r c al
1950     263.2         4118.5            [3.7          7Q.7
1963     372.0         1185.O.,          66.o         121.0
1968     472.8          213.5            93.9         165.4
1975     610.5          257.6           123.4         229.5
1980     714.4          297.0           146.5         270.9
Professiorals and T3chnicians
1950       9.6            0.1             0.3           9.2
1963      20.0            0.4             1.2          18.4
1968      25.4            0.7             1.5          23.2
1975      35.3            1.0             2.2          32.1
1983      43.6            1.4             2.9          39.3
Managers and Adm.4nistrators
195)       2.2            0.1             0.8           1.3
1963       5        ,     0.3             1.5           3.5
1968       10.1           0.5             3.3           6.3
1975      14.9            0.8             4.7           9.4
1980       18.6           1.0             6.2          11.4
.lerizal workers
195Q       11.1            o.8            1.2           9.1
1963       19.6           o.6             3.4          15.6
1963      28.0            1.4             5.3          21.3
1975       39.5           2.1             7.8          29.6
1983      48.3            2.7            10.4          35.2
Salesmer.
195o      17.8             -               -           17;8
1963       30.2           0.3             1.7          28.2
1963       40.3           0.3             2.2          37.3
1975      57.4            0.5             3.7          53.2
1980       70.2           0.7             5.3          64.2
;iric'iz-r;  workers
1950     1147.6         1L76
1963       3-           180 9             1.5           o.8
1968     212.9          207.8             3.8           1.3
1975      256.6         250.1              5.2          1.3
1980      295.7         287.7             6.6           1.4
aborer r
1950       7L 9           0.2            41.4           3.3
1963      113.7            2.5          i56-7          54
1968      156.1            2.8            77.8         75.5
19?75     2o6.8            3.1            99.8        103.9
238.0           3.5            115.1        119.4
Source: aSuCA. Oferta Y Deman& Recursos Hmanocs en Centro America. 1966; Direccion
General de Estadistico y Censo, Encuesta de Hogares por Muestreo; 1968 and
the Mission 'a estimates.
November 114, 1972



ANN! 12
COSTA RICA
1atuMnt   QeY ipation andYA Id tion Baokgtund
(iri thousand*)
Total   University    Secondary    Primary    Other
Total
1950       263.2       -66.7                       Q.9       213-0
1963       372.0      $5              18.2        82.9       265.2
1968       72.8       10.6            29.9       117.1       315.2
1975       610.5      18.1            44.8       170.1       377.5
1980       714.4      27.1            60.2       208.5       418:.6
Prcfes'sior.ls and Tchbnicians
195C         9.6        1.8            2.9         3.8         1.1
1963        20.0       4.1             8.7         5.7         1.5
1968        25.4       7.4            11.1         565         1.4
1975        35.3      1Z.1            17.0         5.1         1.1
1983        43.6       18.0           21.8         3.1          .7
Manaagers and Administrators
1950         2.2        t.1             .2          .7         1.2
1963         5.3         .3            1.3         2.0         1.7
1968        10.1       1.3             3.1         3.9         1.8
1975        14.9       Z.7             4.2         6.1         1.9
1980        18.6        .6             5.4         7.6         2.0
Glerical workers
1950        11.1         .3            1.8         6.1         2,9
1963        12.6        .4             5.1        1Q.3        3.8
1963        2.0         .7            10.4        12.7         4.2
1975       3g.5        l .1           14.9        19.0         4.5
1983        48.3       1.9            20.3        21.4         4.7
Salesn.en
1950        17.8        .1           -.7           6.6        10.4
1963        30.2        .2             J-O      .13 3        15.7
196;2       40.3         .4            1.5        19.2        19.2
1975        57.4        ,.5            3.6        28.9        24.4
1980        70.2        .6             6.o        37.3        26.3
Agricultural workers
1950       14:7 .6      .2              .4         6.6       140 ,4
1963       183.2        .4              .7        16.4       165.7
1966      :212 9        '.4            1.1        23.T       188.3
1975       256.6        .9             1.8        38.7       215.2
198,       295.7       1.8             2.7        50.3       240.9
Laborers
1963       1137,         3             1 75.27                76.8.
19685      1- 4                 ~      2.7        52.7       100.3
1975   ~~2o6.8-       .8            3.3        72.3       13o.4
238.0       1.2            4.o         88.8      144.o
Source: CSUCA    erta v Dandca Roewo Hno8 en Gentro Amerioa. 1966; Dlreccion General
de Eatadistioo y Como, hicsta de iHizare gWr Muestreo3 1968 and the Mission's
estimates. 1
November 14,o 1972



ANNEX 3
COSTA RICA
Enrollments, Output and Teachers
By Level and Type of Education - 1971
Level and Type                         Enrollments ;_                   Output   Teachers
(Grades/Age Group)   Total(No.)  % of Age Group  % Female  % in          (No.)      (No.)
Totall/    NJet            Private
Schools
Pre-Primary               7,300      _                51       n.a.        _           256
(Kindergarten)
Primary                 357,100    108        84      49        6       42,907      12,28o
(]-6/7-is)
Secondary                86,.o48    34        26      49       13       17,627       3,500
7-1213-18 )
2/
Lower (7-9/13-15)        63,443     48        37      49       n.a.     10,016       2,600 -
- Academic               59,044     45        35      49       n.a.      9,562
- Pre-vocational          4,399      3         2      51       n.a.        454
- Industrial &
Commercial          1,968      -         -      51                   100
- Agriculture &
Home Sc.           2,297       _         -      51                   354
- Other                   134                _      n.a. 
-n                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2/
Upper (1O-12/1]6-18)     22,605     19        15      48       n.a.      7,611         900 -
- Academic               19,769     16        13      50       n.a.      6,862
- Vocati-onal            2',836      3         2      34      n.a.         750
- Industrial &
Commercial          2,023      -         -      31      10           486
- Agriculture &
Home Sc.              764                       4 _  h8  n.a.        264
- Other                    49      -         -     n.a.             _
Higher                  18,152      10        10      54        0          n.a.        590
(1.3 -l 9/19-2)4)
Teacher Training          2,392      1         1      73        0          n.a.        177
- Primary                 1,377      -         -      80        -          607         102
- Secondary               1,015      -         -      6.3       -           54          75
Agr.'ech. School             60      -         -       0                                11 21
University               15,700      9         9      52        0          n.a.        402.-
1/  Includes over-age and under-age students
/ Estimated figure
Soiu,c-rel Goipiled by mission from MOE Statistics
December, 1972



COSTA RICA                               ANNEX 4
nrollment by Level of Education and Age Group: 1967-1980
By Level of Education                         1967        1971         1975        1980
'000        tOOO h000                tOOO
TOTAL                               381.6       481.4        590.2       697.8
1.  Sub-Total                               373.0        465.7       566.8       662.6
primary                               306.6       357.1        401.2       404.7
secondary academic                     53.7        78.8        110.1       167.2
secondary vocational                    4.1         7.2         21.2        34.0
industrial and  business              2.7        .4.0        11.1         19.0
agricultural                          1.3         3.0          9.7        14.6
others (arts, etc.)                  0.1          0.2          0.3         0.4
higher education                        8.6        18.2         34.3        56.7
teacher training                      1.4         2.4          2.8         3.4
others (UCR, etc.)                    7.2        15.8         31.6        53.3
2.  Sub-Total                                 8.6        15.7         23.4        35.2
pre-primary                             6.4         7.3          8.5        10.0
special education                       0.8         2.1          2.5         3.2
INA vocational training                 1.4         6.3        12.4         22.0
By Age Groups
6  primary                               32.6        38.1        36.1        32.1
7-12
primary                              239.0       279.5        324.5       350.0
secondary academic                     3.2         7.5          7.7         9.6
secondary vocational                  01          0.8         1.2          1.0
13-18
primary                               32.8        37.9         38.9        22.2
secondary academic                    43.0        61.7         90.4       140.8
secondary vocational                   3.6         5-3         16.o        26:<
higher education                       0.2         o.5          1.0         18
19-24
primary                                1.5         1.6          1.7          .4
secondary academic                     6.5         9.2        12.0         16.8
secondary vocational                   0.4         1.1          4.0         6.5
higher education                       8.4        18.2         33.3        54.9
other
primary                                o.7           -            -           -
secondary academic                     1.0         o.4            -           -
SOURCE: Ministry of Education, University of Costa Rica, INA, and the mission's estimates.
December 18, 1972.



COS'A HICA
School, Age Population and- Enrollments by Age ;roup:  1967 - 1980
1967             1971                 1975                1980
in 000's     T    in 000's    %        in 000's            in 000's       4
Schoo' Age Popula!.ion                61h&J     100.0   773.0    100.0        881.7    100.0   1,017.0       100.0
7 - 12                         88.6      144.5   331.2    142.8      3141.1     38 .7     360.0       35.4
13 - 18                         Z04-7      31-.   p54.3       32.9     303.5      34.4      356.0       35.0
19 - 24                         154.8      23.9   187.5       24.3     237.1      26.9      301.0       29.6
Total Enrollments                     371.3      100.0   465.3    100.0       528.9    100.0      662.0      100.0
7 - 1 2,                       2 74 .9    74L.0   329.0      70.7     339.5      64.2      360.0       54.4
13 - 18                          79.6      21.5   106.-       22.8     138.Li    26.2>    204.0         30.i6
19 - 24                          16.6       4.5    30.1        6.5       51.0      9.6       98.0       14.8
Enrollment Ratio of Age 'roup          57.3               60o2                 6314                 65.0
7 - 12*                         95.3               99.3                99.5                100.0
13 - 18                          36.9               41.8                 45.6                57.3
19 - 24                          10.9               16.i                 21-.5               32.6
Enrollment. Ratio of Age ?froup
and Level
7 - 12  Primary                82.8                84.4                95.1                 97.2
13 - 18  Secondary-              22 .8'             26.3                 35.1                46.5
19 - 24  Higher Education         5.4                9.7                 14.0                18.2
* Some students of age 6 are included.
Source:  Population Projection:  By Ricardo Jemenez in September 1970, Ministry of Education,
Anuario Estadistico, and the mission's estimates.
D7
'DeceiTiber 7, 1972 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~



ANNEX 6
COSTA RICA
ENROLLMENTS AND REPEATERS  IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS*: 1960-1969
Percentage of
Year          Enrollments           Repeaters             Repeaters
1960           198,049                 37,283                   18.82
1961           207,653                 4o,442                   19.48
1962           225,624                40,856                    18.11
1963           244,081                41,134                    16.85
1964           258,316                 42,787                   16.56
1,65           276,921                38,404                   13.87
1966           289,724                 38,o53                   13.13
1967           307,613                 37,964                   12.34
1968           322,683                 34,490                   10.69
1569           339,558                 37,715                   11.11
*Public and Private
ENROLLMENTS AND REPEATERS IN PRDMARY SCHOOL BY GRADE AND TYPE: 1969
Initial Enrollment                Repeaters                % of Repeaters
Grade    Total   Public   Private      Total   Public   Private    Total   Public   Private
TOTAL  339558   328060    11498        37715   36898       817      1lU11   11.25      7.10
1     77078    74434      2644      15332   15000        332      19.89   20.15    12.56
2     69047    66866      2181       9326    9146        180     13.51   13.68       8.25
3     63105    60985      2120       6968    6811        157     11.04   11.16      7.40
4     51325    49657      1668       3887    3806         81       7.57    7.66     4.86
5     43027    41459      1568       1797    1743         54       4.18    4.20     3.44
6     35976    34659      1317        405      392        13      1.12    1.13      0.09
Source:  Ministry of Education
November, 1972



COSTA RICA
SUPPLY AND DEMAND OF PRIMARY AND SECONDARY TEACHERS, 1971-1980
Total
Estimated            Wastage       Minimum    Stock of        Percent
Stock of Teachers. 1971                       Output F;Zm           (3% per year    Total       Qualified    Qualified
Percent         Teacher Training       of Qualified  Demand       Teachers       Teachers
Level                   Qualified       Unqualified       Total       Qualified      Institutions 1971-80       Teachers)      19801/       1980          1980
Primary                     10,786           1,750          12,536           86               4,4001/               3,000          10,bUO     12,186           100
Secondary                    2,421           1,079           3,500           69                3,000                   740          6,700       4,681           70
Academic                   1,982              962          2,944           67               2,160                    600          5,500      3,542            64
Vocational                      439             117             556           79                 840                   140          1,2 00      1, i39          95
A0riculture                    40              10             50           80                  90                    10            110         120          1o0
Industrial and Dusinos:      179               73            252           71                  360                    60            520        4 79           92
Itomc Science                220               34             254          87                  390                    70            5 70        540           95
1/ Based on extension of teacher training course to 3 years.
2/ Based on student/teacher ratios of 30, preprimary and grades 7-12; 40:1 grades 1-6
Source: Compiled by mission from MOE statistics.
November 1972



COSTA HICA
Educational &xpendiLtures by Source of Financej 1967-1980
(rum.llions of Colones in Current Prices) /
Annual
Actual                            Probable                     rate of change
1967       i4/    y1971               1975               1950             1967-71  i97iC
I.  GD?                              ~1.595.3            6.929.6            9.962.h           15.6B3.1              10.P      9.5
[II-  Central Govt. Budget Revenue       5)41.1             915.0            1.466.1            2.3o2.1              1h.1      13.8
as j of T                               11.3               13.2               14.7                14.7
III.  Central Govt. Expenditure           7511.4           1.3C0.9            1.907.7             3.003.O             14.8       9.7
as 0 of 1                               16.4               18.6               19.7                20.0
IV.  Total  Education Expenditure        229.2              382.7              573.1              910.4              13.7     10.1
as p of I                                5.0                5.5                5-D8                5.8
V.  Public Education Expenditure        213.8              362.0              551.3               866.0             14.1     10. 1
as % of I                                4-7                5.2                5.5                 5.5
as % of III                             28.5               27.7               28.9                28.8
as A of IV                              93.3               94.6               96.2                95.1
1. Ministry of Education            177.9              311.2              461.2              728.9              15.3      9.9
as % of V                               83.2               86.0               84.9                8l.l
as % of III                             23.7               23.8               24.2                2)4.3
2. Higher Fducation Institutions  31.5                  37.6               61.8              108.2               h.5     12.5
as j6 of V                              14.7               10.4               11.2                12.5
3.  National Institute of
Apprenticeship              4.4                13.2               22.1               28.9             32.0       9.1
as 0 of V                                2.1                3.6                4.1                 3.3
1/ Assuming price increase at 3.0% p.a.
SOURCE:  National Planning Office, Ministry of Education, Central Bank, INA, and  the ijissionIs estimates.
March 1973
CC)



COSTA RICA
Public Educational Expenditures by Level of School and by Type of Expenditurc, 1967-1980
(millions of Colones)
Capital
1967                    1971                  1975                   1980             Expenditure
Total Current Capital Total Current Capital Total Current Capital Total Current Capital  67-71  72-80
Central Govt. Education Ex-  213.8  198.8   15.0   362.0  3h5.9   17.1   551.1  521.1   30.0   866.o  834.0   32.0    73.3   234.1
penditure
-as _% of Central Govt.      28.5   57.7      8.4   27.7   j8.2    4.j    26.9   37.1    5.9    28.8   37.6    4.0
Expenditure
1.  Ministry of Education  177.9  170.7    7.2   311.2  299.1   12.1   467.2  445.7   21.5   728.9  700.2   25.7    33.4   181.0
Primary (including
preprimary)         126.2  121.5    4.7   202.2  195.9    6.3   283.1  276.2    6.9   398.2  390.h    9.8
Secondary Academic    37.5   35.8    1.7    76.3   71.2    5.1   12o.4  112.6    7.8   211.2  2Dl.2   10.0
Secondary Vocational   4.9    4.9       -     15.8   15.6    0.2    39.5   33.2    6.3    82.8   74.8    8.o
Industrial.&Busineas    3.4    3.4      -       7.9    7.9      -     18.9   16.1    2.8    37.1   33.4    3.7
Agriculture          1.5    1.5      -      7.9    7.7    0.2    20.6   17.1    3.5    45.7   4L 4    4.3
Special Education       1.6    1.2    o.4      3.9    3.9      -       5.5    5.5      -      8.7    8.7       -
Teacher Training        2.1    2.1      -      3.8    3.7    0.2       5.5    5.5      -      8.o    8.0       -
Central Office          8.6    5.2    o.4      9.2 * 8.8    0.3    13.2   12.7    0.5    21.0   20.1    0.9
2. Institutions for Higher
Education              31.5   24.5    7.0    37.6   37.3    0.3    61.8   60.3    1.5   108.2  105.2    3.0           24.4   16.8
3.  INA                      4h4    3.6   0.8    13.2    9.5    3.7    22.1   15.1    7.0    28.9   25.6    3.3             1h.5   36.3
SOURCE:  National Planning Office, Ministry of Education, INA, University of Costa Rica and mr.6Sionoa estimateos.
November 1972
IoaIq



COSTA RICA                             -
Public Educational Expenditures by Level of School and by Type of Expenditure
(millions of Colones)
1968                   1969                   1970                    1972 11                 1973                     1974 3/
Total Current Capital Total Current Capital Total Current Capital Total Current Capital Total Current Capital Total Current Capital
Central Govt. Education Ex-       252.7  239.7    13.0  291.9   274.0   17.9  304.8   294.5   10.3  406.3   392.2   14.1  449.9   429.3   20.6  490.5   467.7   22.8
penditure
-as% of Central Govt.
Expenditure                    32.0   40.1      6.7   32.6    40.0    8.5   30.6    38.5    4.5   31.1    38.0    5.1   28.3    36.7    4.9   28.1    36.5    5.0
1.  Ministry of Education        210.7  207.1      3.6  236.0   232.5    3.5  260.8   253.8    7.0  349.3   337.5   11.8  380.6   367.7   12.9  418.1   400.1   18.0
Primary (including
preprimary)               148.4  146.4      2.0  167.1   164.7    2.4  181.5   177.3    4.2  221.1   215.8    5.3  244.2   238.4    5.8  262.6   256.3    6.3
Secondary Academic          42.5   41.8       .7   46.9    46.7       .2   58.0    55.8    2.2   89.5    85.0    4.5   96.0    91.1    4.9  106.8    99.5    7.3
Secondary Vocational         8.6    8.2       .4    9.7      9.5      .2   11.1    11.0       .1   20.1    18.4    1.7   20.0    18.2    1.8   26.6    22.6    4.0
Industrial and Business    4.0    3.8         .2    4.3      4.2      .1    4.8     4.8      -    10.4       9.0    1.4   10.5       9.1    1.4   13.5    10.9    2.6
Agriculture                4.6    4.4       .2    5.4      5.3      .1    6.3      6.2      .1    9.7      9.4      .3    9.5      9.1      .4   13.1    12.7    1.4
Special Education            1.4    1.4       -      1.7     1.7      -     2.6      2.6      -     4.2      4.2      -     4.6      4.6      -      5.0      5.0      -
Teacher Training             3.0    2.9       .1    3.2      3.2      -     3.7      3.5      .2    4.4      4.4      -     4.8      4.8      -      5.1      5.1     -
Central Office               6.8    6.4       .4    7.4      6.7      .7    3.9      3.6      .3   10.0      9.7      .3   11.0    10.6       .4   12.0    11.6        .4
2. Institutions for Higher
Education                   33.3   28.1      5.2   47.3    35.7   11.6   33.7    33.4         .3   42.3    41.8       .5   49.9    48.6    1.3   55.2    53.7    1.5
3.  INA                            8.7    4.5      4.2    8.6       5.8    2.8   10.3       7.3    3.0   14.7    11.9    2.8   19.4    13.0    6.4   17.2    13.9    3.3
Note:
l/Figures for 1972are estimates of Budget Department, National Planning Office
2/Central Gov't. Expenditure for 1973 is estimates of 1973 budget obtained from General Comptroller's Office
3/National Planning Office and the Mission estimates.
December 1972



GuaTA l.ICA
Recurrent Cost per Student by Level and Type of Education. 1967-197
(US$ - current prices)
Costa Rica             Paraguay    Nicaragua   Venezuela
Annual Rates
of Change (%)
1967         1971    1967 - 1971        1970        1966        1967
Primary                                 59.7         81.8         8.2           17           46           99
Secondary Academic                     102.6        139.0         7.9           55          124          267
Secondary Vocational                   188.5        333.3        15.3          140
Technical and Business              193.7        303.8        11.9
Agricultural                        177.5        394.9        22.0
Special                                230.8        285.7         5.5
Teacher Training                       230.8.       237.2         0.7           97          150        1,156
Higher Education                       438.3        352.0        -5.8
Vocational Training                    395.6        231.1      -14.4
SOURCE:  National Planning Office, Ministry of Education, INA, University of Costa Rica and
IBRD Mission's estimates.
March 1973






COSTA RICA
REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES OF INA (1965-1972)
r -                    - t(thousands of colones)
196511        1966        1967        1966         1969        1970         1971        1972
I.  Revenues                --1.388.0     6.672.6      7.168.6     11.612.5    11.078.8    13.853.3    15.348.2    15.850.4
Private enterprises         922.2     3.005.5     3.502.3      4.541.9      5.119.2     6.321.7      7.691.1     9.600.o
Public institutions         464.o     1.597.0     1.588.7       1.972.2     2.072.9      2.538.9     2.991.0      3.600.0
State subsidies              -        1.000.0     1.000.0         666.7       416.7        358.3       326.0        -
Other revenues                1.8        89.6       287.8         317.4       215.7        282.5       369.2        360.0
Foreign loan                             -           -             -        1.139.0      1.666.3        -           -
Surplus of previous yr.      -          95o.5       789.8      4.114.3      2.115.3      2.685.8     3.971.9      2.290.4
II.  Expenditures                407.6     3.909.3     4.467.2       8.759.6     8.618.8    10.367.5    13.284.8    1h.709.8
Current Stpenditures        323.1     2.518.3     3.632.9      4.474.2      5.755.4     7.2812.6     9.591.3    11.9044.0
Salaries                    128.2     1.234.0     2.466.6      3.034.5      3.985.2     4.791.5      6.713.1     8.609.1
Non-personal services       110.9       583.9       385.6        483.1        594.8        683.1     1.119.6      1.348.2
Materials                   75.4        413.6       368.2        387.8        518.7       872.5      1.077.8     1.169.5
Transfers                    8.6        286.8       412.5        568.8        656.7       947.5        68o.8       817.2
Capital Expenditures        84.5      1.391.0       834.3      4.285.4      2.863.4      3.082.9     3.693.5     2.765.8
Equipment                   84.5        397.3       364.0        682.8        756.7     1.201.7      1.262.5     1.759.0
Buildings                    -          198.6       376.0      3.482.6      1.852.7     1.526.3      2.007.0       522.8
Lands                        _         795.1         94.3        120.0        254.o       159.1        150.9       210.9
Loan repayment               -          -            -             -                      195.8        273.1       273.1
Other expenditures           -                 -            -            -                 -            -           -
III. Balance (I - II)            980.4     2.763.3     2.701.4       2.852.9     2.460.o      3.485.8     2.o63.4      1.140o.6
/ INA operated only for six months in 1965.                                                                                   x
Estimated figuro3.
Sources INA and Miasion's Estimates
December 22, 1972



COSTA RICA
Projections of Revenues and Expenditures of INA (1973 - 19_0)
(thousands of colones)
1973        1974       1975        1976       1977        1978       1979       1980
I.  Revenues                  20.469.9  13.281.5   22.184.7  20.784.1   22.124.0   24.208.0   26.491.0   28.992.0
Private enterprises       10.731.0   12.016.0    13.339.0   14.672.0   15.992.0   17.591.0   19.350.0   21.285.0
Public institutions        4.264.o    4.69o.0    5.159.0    5.623.o    6.072.0    6.557.0    7.081.0    7.647.0
State subsidies                           -                -          -                -           -          -
Other revenues             1.160.0       60.0     1.06o.0        60.0       60.0       60.0        60.0       60.0
Foreign loan               2.814.9    1.513.5     2.626.7       429.1
Surplus of prev. year      1.500.0       -           -           -                -                -          -
II.  Expenditures (INA-S.Jose) 14.938.5   15.033.2    14.632.5  17.023.5  18.414.6  2o.661.4  22.984.1   25.478.5
Current Expenditures      11.950.0   12.392.5    12.060.0   13.869.3   15.510.0   17,564.0   19.926.6   22.322.o
Salaries                   8.126.0    8.426.9     8.200.8    9.431.1   10.546.8   11.943.5   13.55o.1   15.179.0
Non-personal services      1.434.3    1.487.1     1.447.2    1.664.3    1.861.2    2.107.7    2.391.2    2.678.5
Materials                  1.314.5    1.363.2     1.326.6    1.525.6    1.7o6.1    1.932.0    2.191.9    2.455.4
Transfers                  1.075.5    1.115.3      1.085.4    1.248.3    1.395.9    1.580.8    1.793.4    2.009.0
Capital Expenditures       2.988.5    2.640.7     2.572.5    3.154.2    2.904.6    3.097.4    3.057.5    3.156.5
Equipment                  1.046.0      924.2       900.4    1.104.0    1.191.6   1.084.1    1.528.8    1.578.3
Buildings                  1.370.5    1.179.3      1.141.8    1.521.5      500.0      3oo.o       100.0      100.0
Lands                        298.9      284.1        157.2      315.4      346.9      381.6       419.6      461.8
Loan repayment               273.1      273.1       273.1       213.3      213.3      213.3       213.3      213.3
Other expenditures            --                      -          -         652.8    1.118.4       795.8      803.1
II.  Expenditures               5.531.4    3.243.3     7.552.2    3.760.6    3.709.4    3.546.6    3.506.9    3.513.5
(INA - Regional Centres)
Source: INA and Mission's Estimates
December 22, 1972                                                                                                    NJ



COSTA RICA
MaJor External Assistance for Education. 1968-1975
External                       Local Con-
Assistance      Type of        tribution
Agency    Period      (US $ 1OOOs)   Assistance      (US $ 'OOOs)                             Major Projects
1. USAID 1970-72          350.0         Grant              45.0          Construction and equipment for a Technical Agri-
cultural School.
1973-74        425.0         Loan              170.0          Technical Agricultural School.
1971-75      1,200.0         Loan            2,100.0         Expansion of and equipment for the Faculty of
Agriculture, UCR.
2.  IDB    1972-75      3,500.0         Loan            2,200.0         Technical and financial assistance for diversified
upper secondary schools: 9 industrial schools,
8 agricultural schools, 1 comierce school, and
1 arts school.
(1973-  )*                                                    UCR Regional Centers and Institute of Technology,
Cartago.
3.  ILO    1969-70      2,805.0         Grant           4,936.2          Technical and financial assistance for the Nation-
Switzerland                                                         al Institute of Apprenticeship (INA).
France
(1973-  )*                                                     INA.
4. UNESCO-
UNDP  1968-73        155.7         Grant                5.0         Technical assistance for educational planning,
curriculum development and administration, sec-
ondary education, geology teaching, and adult
education.
5. OAS-   1972-73          60.0         Grant                8.o         Technical assistance on educational research and
CEMIE                                                               statistics and an upgrading center for admini-
strative personnel.
6.  Spain 1972-73         129.8         Grant                9.9         Technical assistance on teaching methods, mater-
ials and equipment.
7.  U.K.  (1973-  )*                                                     Construction and equipment for a Technical School   H
of Animal Husbandry.
*Items in parentheses are under disscussion.
SOURCE: Ministry of Education, INA, University of Costa Rica, IDB, USAID, UNDP.
December 19, 1972






ANNEX 13
COSTA RICA
PROJECT CONTENT
Lower Secondary    Workshops/        Vocational
Rural Schools    Laboratories    Training Centers
Grades                           7 - 9           7 - 9          Non-formal
Number                             6              25                5
Enrollment                      2,592            36,000           Variable
Classrooms (places)             1,800                           1,250
Science Labs (places)              240            1,600             _
Workshops (places)                 480            1,600            480
Library (m)                        600              -               -
Multipurpose rooms (m2)          3,000.                     -
Administrative Offices (m2)     1,020               _            3,500
Dining/Kitchen (m2)                -                              600
Staff Housing (No.)                12                               -
Farm Facilities (i2)            2,980                           1,900
March 1973.



ANNEX.14
COSTA RICA
Lower Secondary Schools to be Provided with
Industrial Arts and Home Science Workshops
Enrollment - 1972
Name of School              Location      Boys   G7 TirI     Tot
1.  Colegio San Sebastian         San Jose       398      376          774
2.  Colegio Zarcero               Alajuela       130     132          262
3.  Liceo San Carlos              Alajuela       378      381         759
4.  Colegio de Lir.on             Limon          598      683       1,281
5.  Colegio Elias Leiva           Cartago        224      216         44o
6.  Liceo Samuel Saluz            Heredia        383      387         770
7.  Liceo Villa Neily             Punta Arenas  325       230         555
8. Liceo Nicoya                   Nicoya         485      529       1,014
9. Liceo Napoleon Quesada         San Jose       803      567       1,370
10. Liceo Esparta                   Punta Arenas  2143     329          572
11. Liceo Cortez Grecia            Alajuela       296      288         584
12. Liceo del Sur                  San Jose       563      629       1,192
13. Liceo Mauro Fernandez          San Jose       643      637       1,280
14.  Instituto Superior            San Jose       499      363          862
15.  Liceo Ruben Odio               San Jose      884      833       1,717
Note: Workshops will also be provided for ten other lower secondary
schools to be selected in agreement with the Government.
January 1973



COSTA RICA EDUCATION PROJECT
Susnary of Estirsated Costs
(in Colones)
Item                                                    Area        Site                   Academic and Cosaonal                Staff        Professional Technical       Project           Total         Total
No.              Institutions            Enrollment     .2         Development    Building       Furniture      Equipment       Houses      Services     Assistance  Administr.tion        Colones       US Dollars
A-       GRADES 7 - 9 RURAL SCHOOLS
101    Hojancha                            432         3,090        206,505       1,901,250      143,000        303,850        163,800       104,841                                     2,823,246
102    Pacayas                             432         3,090        166,i93       1,535,625      130,000       276,228         132,300       104,841                                     2,345,787
103    Santa Haria                         432         3,090        182,678       1.681.875      136,500       290,039         144,900       104.841                                     2,540.833
104    Jiearal                             432         2,930        199,225       1,828,450      143.000       303,850         163,800       104,841                                     2,743,166
105   Buenos Aires                         432         2,178        150,345       1,339,650      143,000        303,850        163,800       104,841                                     2,205,486
106    Aguas Zarcas                        432         2.013        136.500       1.201,200      143,000        303.850        163.800       104,841                                    2,053,191
Sub Total 1              2,592       16,391      1,042,046       9,488,050      838,500      1,781,667        932,400       629,046                                    14,711,709     2,212,287
B-        INA CENTERS
101   Naranjo                                          2,076        107,052       1,070,520      85,000        638,400           -            64,231                                    1,965,203
102    Liberia                                         2,076        121,650       1,216,500       93,500        702,240                       64,231                                    2,198,121
103   San Isidro                                       2,076        121,650       1,216,500       93,500        702.240                       64.231                                    2,198,121
104    Limon                                           2,076        131,382       1,313,820      97,750         734.160                       64,231                                    2,341,343
105   San Jose (Central Office)                        4000         426,960       3,200.000      120.000        135.000                      217,600                                    4.099,560
Sub Total 2                          12,304        908,694       8,017,340      489,750      2,912,040                      474,524                                    12,802,348     .1,925,165
C-       W1ORESHOPS AND LABORATORIES
FOR 25 SCUOOLS                 36.000       22,750      1,137,500      11.375.000    1,150.000      5.420,625                      750,750                                    19,833,875      2,982,537
D-        TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                                                               2,194,500                      2,194,500        330,000
E-        PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                                                                                                                                           1,330,.00        1,330,000        200,000
TOTAL A + 8 + C + D + E                         51,445      3,088,240      28,880,390    2,478,250     10,114,332        932,400     1,854,320      2,194,500      1,330,000     50,872,432       7,649,989
PHYSICAL INCREASE                                          308,824       2,888,039      123,913        505,716         93,240       185,432          -               -          4,105,164        617,317
PRICE INCREASE                                             463,236       4,332.059      371,738      1.517,150        139,860       278,148        329,175                      7.431.366      1.117,498
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES                                           772,060       7,220,098      495,651      2,022,866        233,100       463,580        329,175           -         11,536,530      1,734,815
GRAND TOTAL                                                 3,860,300      36,100,488    2,973,901     12.137,198      1,165,500     2,317,900       2,523,675     1,330,000      62,408,962      9,384,804
FOREIGN EXChANGE                                               30%             40%         50%             90%            40%            207.          87%           0/.             50%
1,158,090      14,440,195    1,486,951     10,923,478        466,200       463,580      2,202,480        -           31,40,974      4,682,853



COSTA RICA
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES
(U.S. $ thousands)
Site                                                                     Professional            Technical Assistance
Development        Building           Furniture          Equipment           Services            Experts         Fellowships         Total
Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign   Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign
a) Physical Increase
(Unforeseen)                 10%      10%      10%      10%         5%       5%        5%      5%        10%      10%        NA       NA        -        NA         /,8%
b) Price Increase
(Escalation)                 15%      15%      15%      15%        15%       15%              15%        15%      15%       15%      15%        _       15%          15%
c)  TOTAL                        25%      25%       25%      25%       20%      20%       20%      20%        25%      25%       15%     15%        _       15%          23%
Total Project Cost
(without contingencies)         325     140      2,690   1,793        186     186       152    1,369        223      56        .42      168        -       120         7,450
a) Physical Increase              33       14       269      179         9        9         8       68        22        6          _-           -            -            617
b) Price Increase                 49       21       404      269        28       28        23      205         33       9          6      25                  18        1,118
c) Total Contingencies            82       35       673      448        37       37        31      273        55       15          6      25        _        18         1,735
Total Project Cost
(including contingencies)      407      175      3,363   2,241        223     223       183    1,642        278       71        48      193        -       138         9,185



ANNEX 17
COSTA RICA
ESTIMATED DISBBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ 000's)
ACCUMULATED          UNDISBURSED
QUARTER          DISBURSEMENTS          DISBURSEMENTS        BALANCE
1                   -                       -                6,200
2                 10                      13                 6,190
3                 10                       20                6,180
4                140                     160                 6,o40
5                 93                      253                5,947
6                176                      429                5,771
7                 541                     970                5,230
8                592                   1,562                4,638
9                 650                   2,212                3,988
10                 942                   3,154                3,046
11                 853                   4,007                2,193
12                 816                   4,823                1,377
13                499                    5,322                  878
14                 217                   5,539                  661
15                196                    5,735                  465
16                 217                   5,952                  248
17                158                    6,110                   90
18                  90                   6,200                    0
1/ Starting from the date of effectiveness.
May 1973



COSTA RICA
C'APITAL Url"P COSTS IN NEW PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
(in U.S. Dollars)
G5oss area in    Cost per            Cost per student place or house
Catego_y         m  per student   m2 of            Construction    Furni-   Equip-              ComparabXe
place or house   construction   Site develop.   ture       ment      Total   Figure
1. ACADEMIC AND COMMUNAL
FACILITIES
Lower Secondary Rural
School 2V                   7.0              94            668            47        96       811      1,104
Vocational Training
Centers            I        8.6              87            754            58       434     1,246      2,578
2. STAFF HOUSES
Lower Secondary Rural
Schools                   105               111         11,684            _         _     11,684    17,486
'/Professional fees, cost of land and contingencies not included.
-?Including farm facilities; 5.9 m2 per student place  if farm facilities are excluded.
3/Represent the mean value (in 1970 prices) of "high" and "median" figures of similar level
and type of institutions in Bank/IDA-financed projects.
April 1973.



ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (1972-1973)
1 MINISTER
LEGALi
ADVISOR  r 
! INTERNATIONAL
SEC  T                                              ADVISOR
VICE MINISTER   |                     COORDINATING                           VICE MINISTER
(TECHNICAL)                      I   COMMITTEE    I                        (ADMINISTRATIVE)
v           S     ~~~~~PUBLIC
-_________  RELATIONS
............................................. .......... . _
r                                                                       -A                               ADMINIST
GEN. DIRECTORATE                      GEN. DIRECTORATE                        GEN. REGIONAL
OF EDUCATIONAL               __        OF EDUCATION                           DIRECTORATE
DEVELOPMENTl                               _l
----~~~~~ADVISORYS'--** IET-.........   
QUANT. PLN       QUANT. PLAN         TEACHING         EDUC' PSYCH.        ADULT ED.        HIHRE.FINANCE                               PERSONNEL
wo    Jr   0                                              2>z                                                      <  W 
- -. -  DVISOR         I- a:DIRECTO                                                                                             -
"@s>9---- COORDINATING                                                                     RT                                                  I
ye~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol Zak70 toFJ <C    zc






t           COSTA RICA
FORMER AND NEW (1971) STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL SYSTEM OF EDUCATION
AGE       45 2           6                9     10    11    12                13     14      15             16    17       18             19      20    21       22.
Kindergarten                  Primary Education                                    Secondary Education                                  Higher Education
Pre-Primary            1st Cycle             2nd Cycle                    3rd Cycle                     4th Cycle
Letters
:: : r | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 F ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Norrnal School o. n _
1  2  3n4  5                                                                             1
Pre-Vocational                AgricHlth                     Technical Institute
I ndustr a ~   ~       ndstua
Helt                         Tech2 nicaleIstity t
{---1- -T---1              ---         L    -
Communication
1 I.
Art~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*  Primlary school-leaving certificate                                                               1       -       ~~ , ; T,2 
AABaccalaulrear of spectalit~                                                                           U--_L---i---
3. Entrance at either 6 or 7                                                                                              
4.* Pre-Vscinceand certificaters programs w bn a i eup                  m
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Source:  Ministry of Public Educationcatio
1.Proporysedooadditins shornibycashes
3BaEntrance at ofseiter6or7.
4.Th Pscisencendar dilett /erpograms wilobriteratdBnannko7306gam






COSTA RICA
ENROLLMENT & POPULATION
PYRAMID 1970
EDUCATION
LEVEL/GRADE    AGE GROUP                                                                                                                                                                                           Vo ENROLLMENTS
THIRD LEVEL    POPULATION
ts              27,000                                                                                        31    17                                                                                              0.1
17              29,000                                                              POPULATION                94    58          POPULATION                                                                          0.5
16              31,000                                                                                       329    236                                                                                              1.8
15  _           32,000                                                                                      656    404                                                                                               3.1  7.3
14              3 01023                                                                                              733                                                                                             4.9
35,000                                                       11:                                       
13   _     ~3500                                                                                   2498 ..:. .,',.* ,,t                                                                                         1 2.5 
12              36,000                                                                             4500 .3 4319                                                                                                     23.8
GRADE 6 ONLY IN TECHNICAL
SECOND LEVEL                                                                                                                                                   EDUCATION 371 BOYS, 170 GIRLS
T   41,000                                                                                 4 242    3892                                                                                           20.0
22.0
43,000                                                                                     5373   4797                                                                                             23.9
44,000                                                                                     6779    669':                                                                                           30.1   34.7
8        -        47,000                                                                                   9       924                                                                                             39.4       42.3
7                                                                                    *.-.                  13854   133148,000  156.3
FIRST LEVEL
6               50,000                                                                                     1920s5                                                                                                   76.7
s 51,000                                                                            Nr t4w22550 ,-: a ....................N..LLMEN..`T m  22624    25ENROLLMENT *........*                                          87.8
4               53,000                                                                                         2    291                                                                                            1122      111.9
3        '        54.000                                                                                  3350      ,  9                                                                                           120.9
2                                                                                                          36039,   32617                                                                                          127.
45        40         35        30         25         20         15         10         5         0          5          10        15         20         25         30         35        40                          K
BOYS                                      (THOUSANDSI                                     GIRLS
W-lId B..k-7161






COSTA RICA EDUCATION PROJ'ECT
ILEMENTATION SCHPED.UL
.J51liWT XW ___   _      SIU(ND y EAR             THkIA  YIN&K     I    _IVUlfh                            y    __
-     2     3     4                  7 |L 8      9     10   11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20
GradeB          us    _ _ __ =_I                                   ___  =s                        
Sch0ols       (6)     0//                       0     ::   +++                  .                *^*
00    00  ooo    o o o H oo : :+++y*  *  . ..   . ..   . ..   .. .
,,,,..  ,,,...  zzz   ww   wwv m Vvwv   wv   coo   00c
Wor:shops and        _    xxx  ~~~~~~~~~xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx _ _     _     ___
Wo0rkhops and
Laboratories (25)   //
,,   ooo000   000   ::+   +++   ***                    K%*          ...    ...*  .  ....
,.,,  t1111  zzz   www   wvv   vv   vvv   coc   coo
._~~~~~~~~~X DOaCC :  X~C  XX 2C0                                 _                           ..         _._
INA Centers    (5)
,,,   000   000   000   000   ::  +++   ***   **   *        *       w* **       ...   ...    ... 
WD , ., .,, D Z .t 8 8  z zz  www   wwv   vvv   vvv   vvv   vvv   c c   ec c ccI...............
Techn.cal  sssistance               LOC        ..2L.. _  .  _0CC .-.
a)    Specialists                    - ---        ---    ---   ---   ---   ---   ---    ---   -         ---
b)  Fellowships                            ---    ---    ---   ---    ---    -- _---   ---    ---    ---
CIVIL WORXS:     A Acquisition and survey of sites                   FURNITURE
Selection and appointment of consultants               and
o  Design preparation                                  EQUIPMENT:  " Preparation of Master Lists            Guarantee period
: Preparation of construction bid documents                        Z Preparation ef bid documents        -  Technical assistance
+  Tender and contract awarding                                    w  Tender and contract awarding
Site development                                                v  Manufacturing and reception                                 I
*  Construction                                                    c  Installation
x  Professional services






86,t To lkgla_                                                                                                         M J, |1< \[UiALA
__ t                                    NI C A D  i,  <:  >   R A G U A                       HONOURA            Carib 6 e a n
/?~~~~~~~~~~~~ GLU A   J  UA ,;ST,E  L   A                                                                            R
L Sonto Cru0 \ a,. \2v  F  uesod 3
CSA
H1S E   R   E   I  Aoni.           L  I   M    0   N
F  .             r.                                        Pt.  Mono                              /0/,,. T
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~
G         C / Au /                              s'DU EA~       0
-90'                                                                                                        e        e     3                           . 
S-t. ~ ~ ~ ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~     ~      5 C4         / ."od.e$?  t.
COSTA   RICA                                                               e~~~~~~~~~~~~~HREI  TO LION       >. <
E DUCATION PROJECT                                       N i  S
.... ...  PRO7VINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                                              X        Gon*g...
E - DUCAINTEPNATIALUNDARIES                                                                         G , t4t 
NOTE: SEE THE LIST OF SCHOOLS
IN THE   REPORT TABLES                                                                                                Chrco  Azv/ .
The bOW..ok  tO.   on  Mis,  do norr                                     ......1
PROVINCIAL   B UdbDoRiES                     rs           aa



