Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C 6? 'sz- A/SI
Reprt No. P-4016-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 20.7 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
April 11, 1985
TIb dcument hs a restricted irldbteu ad may be used by recipients oly im the perfof sm of
thir oficia due. us contents may n  otherwise be dihaded wndhou Wodd Bnk adioriafioo.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Nepalese Rupees (NRM)
US$1 - NRs 18.50 1/
NRs 1 - US$0.54056 1/
NRs 1,000,000 - US$54,054.05 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
JULY 1 TO JULY 15
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AIND ACRONYMS
CIF   -  Cost, Insurance and Freight
ERR   -  Economic Rate of Return
FPU   -  Fundamental Planning Unit
FRR   -  Financial Rate of Return
HF   -  High Frequency
HMG   -  His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA   -  International Development Association
ITU   -  International Telecommunication Union
J_CA  -  Japanese International Cooperation Agency
NCC   -  National Computer Center
NTC   -  Nepal Telecommunications Corporation
ODA   -  Overseas Development Agency of United Kingdom
PCO   -  Public Call Office
SDR   -  Special Draving Rights
STD   -  Subscriber Trunk Dialing
TDN   -  Telecommunications Department of Nepal
TTC   -  Telecommunications Training Center
UEF   -  Ultra High Frequency
UNDP  -  United Nations Development Progra mme
VFT   - Voice Frequency Telegraph
VHF   -  Very High Frequency
1/ Exchange rate as of end January 1985.



NEPAL              FOR OFFIClAL USE ONLY
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summar,
Borrower                 K Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiary          .  Nepal Telecommunications Corporation (NTC)
Amount               .  Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 20.7 million (US$22.0
million equivalent)
Terms                .  Standard
Relending Terms          The Government of Nepal will relend the IDA credit to
NTC at an annual interest rate of 12% to be repaid
over 15 years including five years of grace with NTC
assuming the foreign exchange risk.
Proiect Obiectives
and Description          The project is designed to strengthen Nepal Telecom-
munications Corporation (NTC) as an institution
aud comprises a balanced package of high priority
works to expand local telephone facilities in
Kathmandu and other urban areas, provide telephone
service for the first time to about 90 rural com-
munities, expand facilities to cater to resultant
additional domestic long distance and international
telephone traffic, expand domestic and inter-
national telex facilities and extend service to
towns other than Kathmandu. The project includes
(a) provision of management consultants, technical
assistance and training fellowships, (b) installa-
tion of (i) about 35,000 lines of local switching
equipment with associated cable distribution network
and subscriber plant to connect about 31,000 new
subscribers and replace 1,370 lines of all reamining
manual exchanges, (ii) about 2,500 additional circuit
terminations in national/international trunk
exchange, (iii) about 550 local and long distance
public call offices in urban areas and 200 long
distance connections and public call offices in about
90 rural areas, (iv) about 75 transmission systems in
the long distance network, and (v) equipment for
expansion of existing earth station and telex
exchange; (c) provision of air conditioning and power
equipment for telecommunications buildings, vehicles,
computer equipment, teleprinters, office aids and training
equipment, and (d) civil works for cable ducts,
cable networks and buildings for telecommunications
equipment and offices.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Risk                :  The project faces no special risks beyond those
commonly associated with telecommunication projects.
Since the project comprises a number of partly
independent activities, delay in completion of an
individual component would not generally prevent use
of other completed components. Further, costs and
benefits of telecommunications projects tend to be
delayed in roughly the same degree; hence, the impact
of delay in any one component on the return on invest-
ment may not be significant. Since there is a large
unsatisfied demand, there is no significant risk of
underutilization of assets installed under the project
due to insufficient demand resulting from any reduction
in national economic activity.
Estimated Cost      :US$ Million Equivalent
Local 11 Foreian Total
Switching equipment               1.5      21.0      22.5
Cables, ducts and accessories    0.8       10.1      10.9
Subscriber facilities             0.1       1.8       1.9
Transmission systems              0.5       8.8       9.3
Earth station                     0.4       3.0       3.4
Telex exchange and teleprinters  0.1        0.6       0.7
Vehicles, computer equipment,    0.3        1.0       1.3
office aids and training
equipment
Consultancy and training          0.1       1.5       1.6
Civil works for cable network    3.5        3.4 J2   6.9
and buildings
Total Base Costs                  7.3      51.2      58.5
Physical contingencies            0.7       1.1       1.8
Price contingencies               1.5       3.5       5.0
Total Proiect Costs               9.5      55.8      65.3
Financing Plan          IDA                                -        22.0     22.0
Government of Belgium and         -        10.9      10.9
Belgian Commercial Banks
Covernment of Denmark             -          7.5      7.5
Gowvernment of Finland            -         5.3       5.3
Government of France and          -        10.1      10.1
French Commercial Banks
NTC                               9.5        -        9.5
9.5      55.8     65.3
/1 Local costs include US$1.0 million equivalent for custom duties.
/2  Indirect foreign costs assessed at 50% of total costs of construction
of cable networks and buildings.



Estimated
Disbursements :                            US$ Million Equivalent
IDA FY       1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
Annual        0.2   0.8   3.5   8.0   6.5   3.0
Cumulative    0.2   1.0   4.5  12.5  19.0  22.0
Rate of Return  :        161
Staff Appraisal
Report                 No. 4915-NEP dated March 18, 1985
Kap              :       IBRD 17643R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal in an amount of Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 20.7 million (US$22.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms
to help finance a Fourth Telecommunications Project. The proceeds of the
Credit will be relent to the Nepal Teiecommunications Corporation (NTC) to
be repaid over 10 years after five years of grace, with interest at 12% per
annum. NTC will bear the foreign exchange risk. Cofinancing of US$33.8
million equivalent will be available.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report, Nepal:  Recent Developments and
Selected Issues in Trade Promotion (Report No. 4663-NEP), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on October 19, 1983. The principal features and
recent performance of the economy are described below. Country data are
shown in Annex I.
3.      Nepal is one of the least-developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income is estimated at US$170 (1983) and health and education
standards are below the average for South Asia: life expectancy at birth
is only about 46 years; infant mortality, about 145 per thoucand; and adult
literacy, only 19%. The population, estimated to be 15.8 million (1983),
grew at a rate of about 3.3% per year between FY75 and FY83. About 94% of
the population live in rural areas.
4.      Population density with respect to arable land (356 per sq km) has
reached very high levels, and cultivation has been extended on to marginal
lands and forests. Forests have been denuded further to meet the growing
demand for fuelwood, on which Nepal depends for over 90Z of its energy
consumption, mostly for household cooking and heating. Because of deforesta-
tion and excessive grazing on the hills and mountains, with high rainfall,
there is accelerated soil erosion leading to silting of rivers, downstream
flooding and loss of agricultural productivity.
1/ Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as in the
President's Report (Report No. P-3982-NEP dated March 7, 1985) for the
Agricultural Extension II Project.



-2-
5.      Agriculture, largely rainfed, still accounts for nearly 60% of
Nepal's GDP and 80% of merchandise exports, and provides the main source of
livelihood to over 90% of the population. Crop production accounts for about
60% of agricultural output, livestock for 30%, and forestry for 10%. Paddy
is the principal food crop (planted on about half of the total cropped area),
followed by maize, wheat, millet and barley. Cash crops (oilseeds, jute,
sugarcane and tobacco) are grown on about 10% of the cropped area. About 15%
of total rural income arises from non-agricultural activities, of which the
cottage industry sub-sector is one of the more important, generating employ-
ment for over one million people on a part-time basis.
6.      Apart from agricultural land, Nepal's only other important
exploitable resources are hydropower and tourist attractions. The exploita-
tion of the vast hydropower resources beyond that required to satisfy the
country's own power demand, however, will depend crucially on Nepal's ability
to enter complex financial, exploitation and export agreements with neighbor-
ing countries. The tourism sector, based primarily on Nepal's mountain
environment and its rich cultural heritage, has been dynamic, though it
accounts for only about 1% of GDP. Tourism now provides about 20% of the
country's foreign exchange earnings. About 60% of earnings from tourism are
retained in Nepal.
7.      Following centuries of self-imposed isolation, efforts to develop the
economy of Nepal began in the mid-1950s against extremely heavy odds. The
country had virtually no physical infrastructure, an ancient administrative
system, and very limited educational and health services. The resource base
is relatively narrow and its development hindered by the difficult topography
and landlocked position. Against this background, Nepal's primary develop-
ment objective for 20 years, between 1955 and 1975, was to build basic
infrastructure and lay the groundwork for future economic growth. The
country has made good progress in pursuit of that objective. It now has a
basic road network linking many economic centers. Kathmandu and a few other
towns have basic utilities and public transport.  Schools have been built for
almost half of the primary school age children and there are a number of
secondary schools and a national university. A rudimentary hospital system,
including rural health posts, has been built. Some progress has also been
made in establishing the institutional framework for agricultural and
industrial development, including extension and research activities, finan-
cial institutions and industrial enterprises. Yet in all these areas, the
country has a long way to go to achieve a level of development comparable
to other developing countries; for example, public and private institutions
in Nepal must continue to expand and upgrade essential physical facilities,
acquire the necessary expertise in handling economic and financial affairs,
build up adequate technical and managerial cadres, and establish merit-based
systems of personnel management.
8.      The Fifth Plan (FY76-FY80) marked a shift in development objectives,
with increased emphasis being placed on acceleration of economic growth,
employment creation, and raising the living standards of the population.
These objectives have been reiterated in the Sixth Plan (FY81-FY85).
Moreover, the stated strategy of the Sixth Plan appropriately (a) accords



-3-
high priority to developing agriculture, small-scale industries aDd Nepal's
abundant water resources; (b) stresses soil conservation and population
control; and (c) emphasizes full utilization of existing infrastructure and
alleviation of absorptive capacity constraints, including human resource
development. The development strategy also calls for increased involvement
of the private sector in agriculture, manufacturing, trade, tourism, con-
struction and transport operations. Investment expenditures, supported by
growing foreign assistance, have increased rapidly over the last two Plans,
from US$146 million (9% of CDP) in FY75 to US$481 million (192 of GDP) in
FY84 and there have been substantial shifts in the composition of spending
away from transport to agriculture, power and social services. GDP growth,
however, has barely kept up with that of population.
9.      Part of the explanation for this stagnation lies in factors beyond
Nepal's control such as the difficult topography and the poor resource base.
But factors within Nepal's control have also contributed. Severe project
implementation problems have been encountered by Government and donors alike
in most sectors of the economy, thereby lowering the rate of growth of
capital formation. In addition, the expected returns on investments which
took place often did not materialize largely because necessary complementary
investments or current spending were lacking, and because of managerial
deficiencies. A good example is the agriculture sector. In the past, insuf-
ficient attention was paid to bringing water down to the farm level and this
was compounded by inadequate support services such as extension and research,
by the lack of timely supplies of improved seed, fertilizer and other inputs
such as credit, by the lack of farm-to-market roads, and by low producer
margins. Future development of irrigation and agriculture would therefore
need to emphasize complementary investments, improvements in agricultural
input supplies and adequate producer margins.
10.     The shortage of funds for current spending needs to be addressed by
further efforts at domestic resource mobilization. In recent years, Nepal's
efforts to mobilize resources have focused on tightening income tax assess-
ment and collection; on discretionary measures largely in the area of
indirect taxes; and on reducing subsidies to public enterprises. While there
has been, as a result, a steady increase in revenues, the tax structure
remains inelastic. Some scope exists for increasing Nepal's tax elasticity
by shifting items on the indirect tax schedules from a specific to an ad
valorem basis. There also seems to be scope for incz2'asing yields from the
land tax, urban property taxes and income taxes.
11.     Over the past two years, several positive steps have been taken to
strengthen public sector management. These steps have included increases in
the traditionally low civil service salaries, establishment of public service
training facilities, simplification of budgetary procedures accompanied by
stricter enforcement of expenditure accounting, and granting of more autonomy
to public enterprises in matters concerning personnel and pricing policies.
The implementation of these administrative reforms would have to be pursued
by high-level monitoring of important administrative issues such as appoint-
ment of competent staff, job security and decision-making authority. Also,
public enterprise reform needs to be pursued by measures aimed at reducing



-4-
costs and increasing efficiency. In this regard, the Government has taken
initial steps, subjecting public enterprises to increased competition from
the private sector through liberalization of licensir.g in industry, transport
and small-scale hydropower generation.  At the sdne tine, the Government is
encouraging private sector ownership and control of scne public enterprises
through the sale of shares to private investors.
12.     Because of slow economic growth, Nepal's balance of payments has been
characterized by widening trade deficits, partly offset by surpluses from
invisibles. The current account deficit (averagiig US$100 million annually
during FY80-FY82) has traditionally been more than iratched by inflows of
official grants and concessional loans (averaging US$128 nillion annually
during FY80-FY82), leading to overall surpluses. How2ver, in FY83, the
overall balance of payments turned negative, and since then, Nepal's gross
resources have been falling rapidly from 3.8 months of import coverage in
July 1983 -o 2.7 months ir July 1984 and to two months in December 1984.
13.     To sustain and further develop its economy, Nepal must mobilize
additional free foreign exchange through export promotion Lnd efficient
import substitution. Improving agricultural production, rural incomes and
food distribution within the country is a major way of doing so, if only to
avoid the need to import and distribute large quantities of foodgrains in the
future. Agricultural development also remains the key to a gradual expansion
of Nepal's traditional merchandise exports. In addition, development of
energy resources is a major means to strengthening the balance of payments
by reducing the need to import fuel and opening up an export potential.
Recently, Nepal has legislated a wide range of fiscal and administrative
incentives for industrial investors and exporters, particularly in the
Private sector. The implementation of these incentives in a cost-effective
manner, and the alleviation of the severe transport and transit constraints
facing the country's trade sector, must conscitute essential elements of a
trade promotion strategy for Nepal.
14.     Nepal is faced with highly challenging prospects and tasks in
addressing its multiple long-term development problems. While it attempts
to mobilize domestic resources to finance about 40-50% of development
expenditures, external assistance, at concessional terms, will continue to be
a vital factor in financing investment and effecting economic growth. In the
last three years, aid commitments to Nepal have averaged about US$250 million
per year, almost entirely in the form of grants and concessional credits with
grant elements in excess of 70%. Aid disbursements grew from about US$110
million in FY80 to an estimated US$220 million in FY84. Nearly 70Z of total
aid disbursements have come from members of the Nepal Aid Group, formed in
1976 and now comprising eight DAC countries and four multilateral agencies.
15.     At the end of FY84, Nepal's official foreign debt outstanding
amounted to about US$350 million. As virtually aLl loans have been
concessional. debt-service payments, including payments to the IMF, have
remained small in relation to exports of goods and services. In FY84, debt-
service payments amounted to about US$10 million, equivalent to 3% of exports



-5-
of goods and services. Over the medium term, these payments are projected to
remain at less than 5X of Nepal's exports of goods and services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.     Bank Group operations in Nepal began in 1969 with an IDA credit of
US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then, 36
additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to Nepal
to US$547.7 million equivalent, net of cancellations. In view of Nepal's
many development needs, this assistance has been for projects in a wide
variety of sectors. Six of these sectors account for about 90% of
IDA credits by amount: irrigation/agriculture (US$173.0 million for 14
projects); water supply and sewerage (US$46.8 million for three projects);
power and energy (US$168.0 million for four projects); telecommunications
(US$21.7 million for three projects); highways (US$67.0 million for three
projects); and rural development (US$19.0 million for two projects). The
proposed credit would be the fourth approved in FY85. No Bank loans have
been made to Nepal. IFC made its three investments in Nepal, the first in
FY75 (US$3.1 million) for the expansion of the Soaltee Hotel project in
Kathmandu, the second in FY82 (DM14.5 million) to Nepal Orind Magnesite
Company for the mining and production of dead burnt magnesite, and a third
approved in FY84, but not yet signed to Nepal Metal Company (DM7.8 million),
a zinc/lead mining and concentrates project. Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits and IFC operations as of September 30, 1984.
17.     Bank Group lending to Nepal so far has been modest compared to the
country's need for external assistance. The international community has
shown considerable interest in Nepal s economic development and, to date, a
shortage of funds has not been a major bottleneck. The main constraint on
the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited absorptive
capacity, affecting the pace of project preparation and implemei.tation. The
Bank Group has provided assistance to the Government in project preparation
through two Technical Assistance Credits (Cr. 659-NEP and 1379-NEP) and by
acting as Executing Agency for a number of technical assistance projects
financed by UNDP. Furthermore, the Resident Mission in Kathmandu has had a
significant impact in improving project implementation performance. As a
result, the rate of disbursements is improving: during FY82, FY83 and FY84,
US$28.5, US$37.4 and US $26.0 million equivalent, respectively, was disbursed
compared to an annual average disbursement of about US$17 million during the
previous five fiscal years. Project completion reports have been prepared
for six projects: First Telecommunications (Cr. 166-NEP), First Highways
(Cr. 223-NEP), Tourism (Cr. 291-NEP), Birganj Irrigation (Cr. 373-NEP) and
Settlement Project (Cr. 505-NEP) and Bhairawa-Lumbini (Cr. 654-NEP).
18.     Over the next several years, our country assistance strategy will
seek to address Nepal's critical budgetary and balance of payments problems
while continuing our efforts to tackle longer-term developmental and institu-
tional issues (such as public administration inefficiencies, poor project
planning and implementation performance, and high population growth and



-6-
scarcities of skilled manpower resources) through a combination of project
lending, technical assistance and economic and sector work.
19.     We intend to introduce a greater focus to our lending, attaching
particular importance to (a) agriculture and forestry; (b) population
control; and (c) education and training.  Agriculture, a main source of
livelihood to some 95% of the population, accounts for as much as 65% of GDP
and 80% of exports. The primary objective of our lending in this sector is
to increase production wiLh a view to maintaining self-sufficiency in
foodgrains and achieving larger surpluses for exports. To that end, we will
be emphasizing complementary investments aimed at improved supply of inputs
and strengthening of support services to maximize benefits from existing
infrastructure and equipment. In forestry, our principal concern will be to
support reforestation efforts at the community level. These investments in
agriculture and forestry would need to be supplemented by effective programs
to control population growth particularly in the hill areas where a rapidly
growing need for food, fuelwood and fodder is causing a serious environmental
degradation. Our operation in population will seek to expand and improve the
family planning service delivery systems. In education and training, our
objectives wiLl be to improve the quality of primary education as well as
increasing the supply of trained technical manpower for greater efficiency in
public administration. Outside these three areas of primary emphasis, our
involvement will be more selective. We intend to maintain an interest in the
power sector which previously absorbed a significant portion of our lending,
but we envisage our future role more as a provider of technical assistance
and a catalyst for mobilizing additional external resources. In transport
and communications, we plan to combine technical assistance through sector
work with selected interventions designed to facilitate regional integration
and improved rural access.
20.     In allocating our resources, our basic approach will be to attempt to
strike a proper balance between the necessary emphasis on quick-and-high
yielding investments (such as in agriculture), which is dictated by Nepal's
precarious budgetary and balance of payments position, and an equally impor-
tant commitment to those sectors where impact cannot be felt immediately but
which nevertheless are critical to the country's long-term development (e.g.,
population and human resource development). We also recognize the need to
deliberately target some of our operations on the poorest and least developed
parts of the country, for example, the hill areas.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Telecommunications and Economy
21.     Compared with alternative means of communication, telecommunications
are more efficient in terms of capital, energy consumption and user time.
With adequate telecommunications facilities, the level and variety of produc-
tive activities can be increased considerably in areas where this would
otherwise not be feasible. In terms of the specific constraints on Nepal's



-7-
economic and social development, telecommunications can play a significant
role, especially in connection with: (a) increasing the efficiency and
reliability of transport and, through better use of available transport,
energy savings and greater efficiency of productive interactions for a given
level of energy consumption; (b) improving the working of the market
mechanism by expediting and extending access to information; (c) providing
essential domestic and international communications for tourism, an important
source of foreign exchange; (d) facilitating communication between Kathmandu
and provincial centers, as required for effective coordination and management
of development activities; (e) facilitating the extension of social services,
public works and Government administration to provincial and rural areas; and
(f) increasing domestic savings obtained by transferring part of the
incremental net income from telecommunications operations to government.
Access to Service
22.     Currently, the access to telecommunications services in Nepal is very
poor. In mid 1984, Nepal had on average only about 0.12 telephones per 100
inhabitants. This density is one of the lowest in the world. About 57% of
existing main telephone lines are concentrated in Kathmandu which has 2.7% of
the country's population. The telephone density in Kathmandu is 2.06
telephones per 100 inhabitants. Of the 28 other areas designated as urban
with a total population of about 0.7 million, 18 have telephone exchange
service, with an average density of 0.05 telephones per 100 inhabitants. The
remaining 10 urban areas are served only by public call offices (PGOs) for
long-distance calls. In urban areas with telephone exchanges, the non-
subscribing general public has very littLe access to telephone service.
There are about 25 local PCOs in Kathmandu (averaging one PCO for about
15,000 people) and another 21 local PCOs in other towns. For the rural
population, there are 15 long distance PCOs (that is, about one per million
inhabitants). Of Nepal's 75 administrative headquarters towns, 49 have no
telephone service. Overall, about 941 of the country's population had no
access to telephone service and no available means of communications, espe-
cially in the winter season when surface and air transportation are
unreliable. Telegraph service is available in only 82 urban and rural cen-
ters (out of total 4,025) and telex service only in Kathmandu.
Usage of Service
23.     In mid 1984, about 69% of all telephone lines in Nepal were connected
to business (including professionals and business units registered under
personal names) and Government subscribers, and the balance 31% to residen-
tial subscribers. Most of the non-residential lines were in communication
intensive tertiary sectors of the economy, especially commerce (34%) and
Government (27%). These figures understate the extent to which telecom-
munications are used in connection with economic production and distribution.
A survey in 1980 indicated that, on average, about 4,000 calls per year
originated from each telephone line. Intensive telephone users were those in
tourism (12,500 calls per year per line), banking (8,300) and Government
(7,900). Residences and small economic units with telephones listed under
personal names averaged about 2,400 calls per year of which a significant



-8-
number were for work related purposes. It is estimated that, in 1983, over
80% of telephone calls and revenues were generated in connection with busi-
ness and Government activities.
Existing Facilities and Service Quality
24.     As of July 15, 1984, automatic local telephone service was available
in three towns with about 16,000 lines and manual (operator-assisted) local
service in 16 other towns with about 4,500 lines. In general, local service
is congested, unreliable and inadequate. On an average, about 75% of the
daily local call attempts are successful; during the peak business hours, the
proportion of successful calls is much lower. Proper equipment maintenance
procedures and service standards are not prescribed and clearance of faults
is unsatisfactory. On an average, there are about 25-30 faults per 100
telephones per month which is high. The faults are mainly in the local cable
distribution network. The average time for fault clearance is also high,
varying from about one day in respect of telephone instrument faults to five
days or more for Eaults in the cable distribution networks.
25.     The operator-assisted long distance telephone service is severely
impaired by heavy shortage of circuits and operating positions. Provincial
long distance traffic, of which 60% is directed to Kathmandu, normally suf-
fers heavy delays. Service delays of 4-5 hours are normal. This leads to
cancellation of over 30% of booked calls. Telegrams are accepted in 82
centers but only five centers are equipped with teleprinters. The remaining
77 centers transmit messages by morse code or as phonograms. Telex facility
is available in Kathmandu only and hence used for international calls.
26.     Upgrading the quality of the telecommunications services was a major
consideration in the design of the IDA financed projects currently under
implementation (para 33). When completed, these projects will make a sig-
nificant contribution towards alleviating the current service problems. The
availability and the quality of international services have already improved
significantly with the commissioning of the earth station and the interna-
tional telex exchange in October 1982.
Demand for Service
27.     Given the current embryonic status of telecommunications facilities
in Nepal, lack of access to service in large areas of the country, and the
very poor quality of both local and long distance services which inhibits
expression of demand, it is difficult to forecast accurately the future
requirements for telecommunications services in different parts of the
country. Available data on demand is limited to the number of applications
registered for new telephone connections. This does not reflect the real
demand because, in urban areas, many potential subscribers are discouraged
from applying by the current heavy delays in obtaining connections and, in
rural areas where the telephones are mainly used for long distance calls, by
the poor quality of long distance service. Also, telephone demand is not
registered in areas where currently there is no service, and demand from
Government and its agencies is not registered on the waiting list as such



-9-
connections are given on a priority basis. Hence, the historic demand
figures reflect a supply constraint rather than the real demand and,
therefore, tend to underestimate the rate at which demand will grow.
28.     In mid-1984, the unmet demand in Kathmandu twas 19,380 against 9,121
working lines.  In other areas of the country currently serviced, the unmet
demand was 13,757 against 6,843 working lines. NTC has projected the future
demand at average growth rates of 15% per annum for Kathmandu and 20% per
annum for the rest of the country. These are considered reasonable.
Sector Organization
29.     Authority for the telecommunications sector in Nepal is vested in the
Ministry of Communications. Under the Ministry, NTC is responsible for all
public telecommunications services in Nepal. NTC was established as a wholly
government-owned statutory corporation in June 1975 (para 34) and is
admninistered by a seven-member Board of Directors under the chairmanship of
the Secretary, Ministry of Communications. NTC's General Manager and
Financial Controller are members of the Board. The remaining four members
are appointed by the Government from other government agencies and state
enterprises. NTC's annual budget and telecommunications tariffs are approved
by the Planning Commission and the Ministries of Communications and Finance.
Personnel policies, staff recruitment, emoluments, benefits and promotions
are regulated by the Public Service Commission. NTC's organization structure
is generally similar to that of telecommunications entities in many develop-
ing countries. Individually, the senior and middle level technical and
managerial staff are well qualified, experienced and competent. However,
there are several general institutional deficiencies in NTC which constrain
rapid sector development and need to be corrected. Appropriate measures are
planned under the proposed project to overcome the present shortcomings
(paras 46-49).
Sector Constraints
30.     Currently, the two main constraints on development of telecommunica-
tions facilities in Nepal are: (a) the availability of foreign funds on
acceptable terms to finance the foreign costs of equipment; and (b) NTC's
capacity to undertake a large development program and to manage the expanded
facilities. In the absence of any existing or foreseeable domestic telecom-
munications equipment manufacturing facilities, Nepal will depend on imports
for expansion of its telecommunications facilities in the foreseeable future.
Consequently, an important constraint on the rate of future development of
the telecomnunications services is the availability of foreign funds which,
in view of the country's limited ability to service foreign debt, need to be
mainly in the form of grants-in-aid or loans/credits on concessionary terms.
IDA has assisted HMG and NTC in attracting foreign funds for the sector. The
proposed level of the FY86-90 investment program can therefore be realized
because of the grant-in-aid by the Japanese International Cooperation Agency
(JICA), a blend of grant and commercial credit from the Belgian and French
Governments and grants from the Governments of Denmark and Finland.



-10-
31.     The other constraint is NTC's new project implementation capacity.
So far, NTC has managed the operation and development of the relatively
limited assets of the sector reasonably well and its technical staff have
proved capable of operating adequately modern sophisticated equipment as
demonstrated with the satellite earth station and computerized digital telex
exchange commissioned in 1982. However, for undertaking a large development
program, and operating and managing efficiently the expanded facilities,
NTC's planning, financing, technical and general management capabilities need
to be enhanced. Management consultants, technical experts and fellowships
for NTC staff for foreign training are proposed under the project to improve
NTC's developmental, operational and managerial capabilities (paras 46-48).
Sector Goals
32.     HMG attaches considerabLe importance to the development of teLecom-
munications facilities. However, the limited foreign exchange available for
the sector has made it difficult to estabLish an adequate long term sector
development strategy. In the medium term, the partial objectives of the
sixth national development plan to be attained in FY81-85 were to establish
reLiable communication within and among towns, district headquarters and
commercial/service centers in rural areas and strengthen NTC's management and
organization. These objectives are reflected in NTC's FY86-90 development
program approved by HMG. The following elements are highlighted:
(a) major increase in the rate of development. The annual invest-
ments under the FY86-90 program will average about US$23
million per year, compared with US$4 million per year in
FY80-82 and US$1 million per year in FY75-79;
(b) priority in expanding and improving services in the provincial
urban and rural areas while continuing to develop services
in the capital to reduce communication bottlenecks at the
center. About 672 of the FY86-90 investments will be for
facilities in and between provincial urban and rural centers,
and between these centers and Kathmandu;
(c) emphasis on improving service quality and NTC's efficiency,
through increased network automation, use of modern techno-
logies, improvement of organization and management, and
increased staff training; and
(d) ensure adequate resource mobilization by NTC to sustain rapid
development of the sector and increased fiscal benefits for the
Government.
Role of the Bank Group
33.     IDA has been associated with the telecommunications sector in Nepal
since 1969 through three projects--Credit 166-NEP for US$1.7 million in
November 1969, Credit 397-NEP for US$5.5 million in June 1973 and Credit
799-NEP for US$14.5 million in August 1978. Through these projects, IDA has



-11-
played a significant role in the physical, technical and institutional
development of the sector. In physical terms, under the three IDA projects,
the local telephone facilities will have been expanded significantly, the
domestic long distance service upgraded to a fully automatic subscriber trunk
dialing (STD) service and telephone service provided for the first time in
many rural areas. Technically, IDA contributed significantly to NTC's
progressive moves from manual exchanges through electromechanical automatic
exchanges to eLectronic digital exchanges, and from fault-prone open-wire
lines and inefficient HF radio circuits to high capacity stable microwave
radio systems and satellite communications. However, the sector will con-
tinue to need substantial external assistance for some years to further
expand the facilities to meet the forecast demand for aLl services, upgrade
the level of service in areas currently served and provide access to service
to rural areas of economic significance currently without service.
34.     IDA has also played a major role in the institutionaL development
of the sector. In 1969, before the first project was undertaken, the only
sector specific organization was the Telecommunications Department of Nepal
(TDN) within the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications, mainly
concerned with engineering and operational functions of the sector but
without commercial accountability or tools for efficient management or
training. The semi-autonomous Nepal Telecommunications Board (NTB) was
created in October 1969 as a condition of the first credit and its internal
organization and accounting system studied by consultants and their recommen-
dations implemented. In 1972, with IDA's support, the legislation creating
the Nepal Telecommunications Corporation (NTC) was passed providing the
sector with increased operational and financial autonomy. NTC was sub-
sequently established as an autonomous state enterprise in June 1975. The
Bank's Project Performance Audit Report on the first project issued in
December 1977 commented favorably on the "establishment of an institutional
framework for the sector to provide and operate telecommunications facilities
on a commercial basis with proper tools for effective management".
35.     Because of its long involvement in the sector, IDA is well-equipped
to provide the necessary assistance to NTC in the institutional, technical
and financiaL disciplines as follows: (a) institutionally, through a wide
spectrum of organizational, managerial, operational and financial improve-
ments in NTC, introduction of modern tools including computer facilities,
improving local training facilities, technical assistance and fellowships for
foreign training of NTC staff; (b) technically, through assistance to NTC in
developing internal strategic planning capability for long-term balanced
development of the sector responsive to spatial, sectoral and economic
priorities of national development while keeping in view the macro-economic
constraints, in designing fully integrated switching and transmission net-
works for local and long distance services to derive maximum technical and
economic benefits from the new digital technology, and in procuring the
latest proven equipment at least cost in a field where the rate of technical
obsolescence is high; and (c) financiaLly, by funding part of the foreign
cost of a much needed development program and acting as a catalyst for
attracting cofinancing on satisfactory terms from other sources.



-12-
PART IV - THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Program
36.     NTC's FY86-90 program comprises a mix of investments designed to
improve the quality of existing services, expand service across the country
in response to forecast demand and, based on regional priorities, provide
facilities in some of the areas currently without access to service. The
program is large compared to past achievements. It aims at increasing the
number of connected lines at an annual rate of 25% (against 11% achieved in
FY80-84), and extend service to about 155 new rural communities (against only
28 communities currently served). Even then, the number of outstanding
applicants for telephones at the end of the program is expected to be about
twice that at its beginning and only a small fraction (12%) of the total
country's population will have access to telephone service. The program
comprises: (a) ongoing works under the second and third telecommunications
projects (Credits 397-NEP and 799-NEP); (b) the rural telecommunications
project to be financed by the Japanese International Cooperation Agency
(JICA), hereinafter called the JICA project; (c) the proposed fourth telecom-
munications project to be partly financed by an IDA credit; and
Cd) preinvestment for civil works and equipment related to the FY91-95
investment program. The total investments under the program are estimated at
NRs 2,131.2 million (US$115.2 million) with a foreign component of MRs
1,850.0 million (US$100.0 million).
37.     The five-year (FY86-90) fourth telecommunications project proposed
to be partly financed by IDA is a self-contained balanced and integrated
package of high priority works. A major thrust of IDA's role under the
project will be on the institutional development of the NTC in all dis-
ciplines aimed at enhancing its capabilities to manage and operate the
expanded facilities. The project was appraised in September-October 1983 and
the information was updated in February 1985. A timetable of key events
relating to the project and special conditions are given in Annex III.
Negotiations began in Washington on April 12, 1984. In the course of nego-
tiations HMG indicated that in addition to the Belgian cofinancing offer
other governments had expressed interest in cofinancing certain components of
the project.  Negotiations were therefore not concluded at that time in order
to allow HMG to evaluate all the cofinancing offers. Due to delays in
finalizing the cofinancing arrangements, the negotiations were finally com-
pleted on April 2, 1985.
Project Description
38.     The main components of the project are as follows:
(a) provision of management consultants, technical assistance and
fellows.iips for foreign training of NTC staff;
(b) installation of (i) about 35,000 lines of local automatic
switching equipment with associated cable distribution network



-13-
and subscriber plant to connect about 31,000 new subscribers
lines and replace about 1,370 lines of all remaining manual
exchanges, (ii) about 2,500 additional terminations in national/
international trunk exchange, (iii) about 75 transmission
systems in the long distance network, (iv) equipment for
expansion of existing earth station and telex exchange, and
(v) about 550 local and long distance public call offices in
urban areas and 200 long distance connections and public
call offices in about 90 rural areas;
(c) provision of air conditioning and power equipment, vehicles,
computer equipment, teleprinters, office aids and training
equipment; and
(d) civil works for cable ducts, cable networks and buildings
for telecommunications equipment and offices.
Project Costs
39.     Total project cost is estimated at NRs 1,208 million (US$65.3
million) with foreign cost of NRs 1,032.2 million (US$55.8 million). The
costs of switching equipment, main transmission systems and telephone cables
to be obtained through tied procurement under cofinancing are based on unit
costs quoted by suppliers in Belgium, Denmark, Finland and France. Other
costs are based on NTC's contracts for ongoing works with adjustments up to
end 1984 levels and are reasonable.
40.     The provisions for equipment and civil works are based for the most
part on detailed designs and engineering. Hence, no significant change is
expected in the proposed quantities during the project period. A physical
contingency of 10% of the annual base local and 5% of the annual base foreign
costs has been included and are considered adequate. The local price contin-
gencies are based on the following increases each year: 1985: BZ; 1986: 7%;
1987 to 1990: 6Z. The foreign price increases on the equipment to be
financed under the IDA credit are based on the follow-ing annual increases:
1985: 5.0%; 1986: 7.5% and 1987 to 1990: 8.0%. Since telecommunications
equipment contracts are normally fixed price contracts, the foreign cost
increases are applied up to the anticipated contract dates. For the equip-
ment to be procured under cofinancing (para 41), no price contingencies have
been included in respect of their foreign costs as the unit prices of these
items are fixed. Based on these assumptions, the locaL and foreign price
contingencies amount to 18.8% and 6.7% respectively of the base costs plus
physical contingencies.
Financing
41.     The local costs of the project amounting to NRs 175.9 million (US$9.5
million) will be financed from NTC's internal cash generation. These costs
exclude NRs 62.9 million (US$3.4 million) of indirect foreign costs (assessed
at 50X of total costs of civil works Eor construction of cable networks and
buildings for telecommunications equipment and offices) which will be
financed by IDA credit. An IDA credit of SDR 20.7 million (US$22.0 million
equivalent) is proposed to finance about 39% of the foreign costs of the



-14-
project; the balance 61X (US$33.8 miLlion) is expected to be cofinanced by
the financial assistance packages as follows:
Cofinancing for Project's Foreign Costs
Equipment                       Amount
Country        to be Financed           US$ Million Equivalent
Belgium        Switching                           10.9
Denmark       Cables                                7.5
Finland       Transmission systems                  5.3
France         Switching                           10.1
Procurement
42.     Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.  Costs
include proportionate contingencies.



-15-
Procurement Method
Negotiated              Total
Project Item                       ICB   LCB   Purchase    Others    Cost
…- -US$ Million equivalent--
Switching equipment                         -      -      21.0         -        21.0
[21.0]                [21.0]
Cable network                              3.4    -        7.5         -        10.9
(3.4)
(3.4)   -       (7.5]                 [7.5]
Subscriber facilities                      2.4    -        -           -         2.4
(2.4)   -                             (2.4)
Transmission systems                       3.8    -        5.8         -         9.6
(3.8)   -       (0.5)       -         (4.3)
[5.3]                 [5.3]
Earth station and telex exchange           3.3    -        0.6         -         3.9
(3.3)           (0.6)                 (3.9)
Teleprinters, air conditioning             1.8    -        -           -         1.8
and power equipment, vehicles,            (1.8)   -        -                    (1.8)
computers, office aids and
training equipment
Consultancy and training                   1.3             -           0.6       1.9
(1.3)                      (0.6)      (1.9)
Civil works for cable network              -      4.3      -           -         4.3
and building construction                        (4.3)                          (4.3)
Total                             16.0    4.3    34.9         0.6       55.8
(16.0)  (4.3)   (1.1)       (0.6)    (22.0)
[33.8]                [33.8]
Note: Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the proposed IDA
credit and figures in brackets are amounts to be co-financed through
assistance from Belgium, Denmark, Finland and France.
43.     All equipment contracts financed under IDA credit are expected to be
awarded to foreign suppliers. For reasons of compatibility, standardization,
and economies in maintenance, staff training and spare parts, equipment
costing a total of US$1.1 million (5Z of IDA credit) for expansion of the
existing satellite earth station (US$400,000), telex exchange (US$200,000)
and microwave systems (US$500,000) will be procured from the original
suppliers, subject to prices being satisfactory to IDA. All other equipment
items to be financed by the IDA credit will be procured following Bank
guidelines. Contracts for civil works related to construction of cable
networks and buildings for telecommunications equipment and offices which are
estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent each will be awarded after
local competitive bidding following NTC's normal procurement procedures which
are satisfactory and acceptable to IDA. All IDA financed contracts over
US$200,000 for equipment and US$300,000 for civil works will be subject to



-16-
IDA's prior review which will cover about 90% of the total equipment value.
Other contracts in packages of less than US$200,000 for equipment and
US$300,000 for civil works will be subject to post-award IDA review.
Management consultants (para 46) shall be selected in accordance with Bank
guidelines. The technical experts (para 47) and the training disciplines and
country assignments in respect of fellowships for foreign training of NTC
staff (para 49) shall be selected by NTC in consultation with and under terms
of reference and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Project Implementation
44.     NTC engineers will prepare all engineering designs, technical
specifications and bid documents, evaluate bids, prepare contracts and
install equipment. NTC engineers have acquired adequate capabilities under
previous IDA projects to undertake these tasks. To ensure proper coordina-
tion of all project items and implementation of the project on schedule, NTC
has established a Project Implementation Unit under a Project Manager with
adequate staff, and administrative and financial powers and agreed to main-
tain such unit during the project implementation period (Section 2.08 of
draft PA). Further, to avoid delays in procurement, the issue of bid invita-
tions for subscriber facilities, transmission equipment for rural areas and
expansion equipment for the earth station to be financed by IDA is a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the IDA credit (Section 5.01(c) of draft DCA).
Further conditions of the effectiveness of the IDA credit are that evidence
satisfactory to IDA that HMG has secured, on reasonable terms, cofinancing
for all project items not financed by IDA credit, and that all conditions
of effectiveness, if that be the case of such agreements (other than condi-
tion of effectiveness of IDA credit) shall have been met (Section 5.01(b) of
draft DCA). The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.
Disbursements
45.     Disbursement of the credit against full documentation would cover:
(a) 100% of foreign (CIF) expenditure on imported goods; (b) 100% of foreign
expenditure on services of equipment suppliers in respect of installation,
supervision, training and maintenance; (c) 100% of ex-factory costs (exclud-
ing taxes) of locally manufactured items; (d) 75% of costs of items procured
locally off-the-shelf; (e) 100% of the foreign costs of consultants, techni-
cal experts and fellowships for NTC staff; and (f) 50% of costs of civil
works. Based on disbursement profile for IDA credits to the telecommunica-
tions sector in the countries in the South Asia region, but taking into
account that the invitation of bids by NTC for major IDA-financed items shall
be a condition of effectiveness of the credit, the proposed credit is
expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1992.
The Implementing Agency
46.     NTC has so far managed the development and management of the rela-
tively limited assets of the sector reasonably well. However, to further
enhance NTC as an organization capable of effective and efficient management,
development and operation of the expanded facilities on a commercial basis,



-17-
management consultants will be appointed under the project. These consult-
ants will undertake a comprehensive review of NTC's organization i.ad :anage-
ment in the administrative, technical and financial disciplines, identify
weaknesses, recommend corrective measures and assist in -.eir imEl-iEnel".ation.
In order that the consultants commence work early in the iroject, during
negotiations assurances were obtained that NTC will appoint consultants by
December 31, 1985 (Section 2.02(a) of draft PA). Further NTC has agreed to
send to IDA the consultant's reports as and when issued with detaiLs of
accepted recommendations and a schedule for their implementation.
47.     It is also proposed to develop an internal strategic planning
capability within NTC for balanced long-term development of the sector
responsive to spatial, sectoral and economic priorities of national develop-
ment with better inputs and keeping in view the macro-economic constraints.
Currently, demand forecasts are based on incomplete and insufficient data.
While the risk of overinvestment under the present project is negligible due
to the large unsatisfied demand, better supported demand and traffic
forecasts are needed for subsequent larger investment programs. Nepal's
telecommunications tariff levels and structure also need to be reviewed, and
pricing policy guidelines developed to ensure adequate internal cash
generation, domestic resource mobilization, efficient use of available
facilities and provide signals for efficient allocation of new investments.
A long term planning unit also needs to be established in NTC and strategy
developed for future investments in the sector taking into consideration the
spatial and sectoral priorities of national development. Accordingly, four
experts wilL be appointed under the credit as follows: (a) a demand
forecasting expert for six months to establish principles of demand forecast-
ing and upgrade NTC's current practices; (b) a telecommunications tariff
expert for six months to review the structure and level of telecommunications
tariffs in Nepal and lay down principles on which NTC could base its future
pricing policy; (c) telecommunications planning expert for twelve months to
establish a Fundamental Planning Unit (FPU) in NTC; and (d) a telecommunica-
tions economics expert for twelve months to develop guidelines for long-term
telecommunications development in Nepal. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that NTC will appoint the four consultants by December 31, 1985
(Section 2.02(b) of draft PA). NTC further agreed that, by the same date,
NTC will appoint four counterpart officials to work with the consultants and
subsequently head their respective units, and that it will send to IDA the
report of each consultant as and when issued with accepted recommendations
and a schedule for their implementation.
Staff and Training
48.     In July 1984, NTC had about 2,663 employees on its payroll equivalent
to about 126 staff per 1,000 telephones which is high. With graduaL automa-
tion of the domestic telephone services, full digitalization of switching
equipment, replacement of open-wire lines by cables and radio systems, com-
puterization of billing and accounting and improvements in manpower quality
and productivity through training, the rate of overall staff growth in the
next few years is expected to be substantially lower than the rate of growth
in telephone connections and the ratio of employees per 1,000 telephones is



-18-
expected to drop from current 126 to about 54 by 1990. NTC does not have
difficulty in recruiting staff except in respect of higher level technical
positions, for which there is a lack of candidates trained specifically in
telecommunications. NTC has some problem in retaining trained and
experienced staff. While NTC's salary levels are linked by Government
regulations to those in other public sector undertakings, service conditions
in NTC are more stringent. Also, fringe benefits, which are independently
fixed by each public sector undertaking, are in some cases lower in NTC
compared to others. Management consultants will review staff emoluments and
benefits in NTC and recommend changes within the overall Government
guidelines. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that within four
months after consultants have submitted their recommendations, HMG and NTC
will agree with IDA on an action plan for implementation of such recommenda-
tion as are acceptable to HMG, NTC and IDA (Section 2.09 of draft PA).
49.     NTC has a well equipped Telecommunication Training Center (TTC) but
TTC has difficulty in finding suitable instructors among NTC staff because,
on being posted to TTC, staff lose the financial and other incentives of
field offices. The loss of benefits is compounded by the housing shortage
and higher cost of living in Kathmandu. While NTC has no difficulty in
recruiting trainees from Kathmandu Valley, recruitment from other areas of
the country is limited because the poor monthly stipend paid to the trainees
is insufficient to cover their living expenses over the duration of the
training in Kathmandu. The management consultants would review payment of
special allowances to instructors for the TTC, establishment of regional
training centers, and the level of stipends paid to trainees. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that within four months after consult-
ants have submitted their recommendations, HMG and NTC will agree with IDA on
an action plan for implementation of such recommendation as are acceptable to
HMG, NTC and IDA (Section 2.09 of draft PA). To complement the training in
TTC, the proposed credit includes financing for about 90 manmonths of fellow-
ships for foreign training of NTC staff including training instructors, staff
for the FPU, demand forecasting, and tariff and economic study units, in
technical, business management, financial and economic disciplines.
Accounting and Auditing
50.     NTC has a commercial accounting system and has trained staff to
operate this system adequately. However, NTC's expanded operations call for
further staff training. The timeliness of NTC's accounting also needs to be
improved and steps have been initiated in this regard. Increased use of
computer for subscriber billing and other accounting routines will also
facilitate the timely completion of NTC's financial statements. Under the
third project, UTC was required to furnish to IDA copies of its audited
financial statements within six months of the end of its fiscal year. NTC
has so far not been able to comply with this covenant and, despite some
recent improvements, NTC's audited financial statements are still four to six
months late. Delays are due, first, to time consumirg internal procedures
and lack of mechanization of accounting routines and, second, to the late
appointment of the external auditors, who are appointed by HMG for each year.
During negotiations, NTC agreed to submit the unaudited accounts within six



-19-
months at the end of each fiscal year. In addition, assurances were obtained
that NTC shall furnish to the Association as soon as available but in any
case not later than eight months after the end of each year (Section 4.02(b)
of draft PA).
Billing and Collection
51.     Private subscribers generally pay promptly; hence, the bulk of bills
outstanding belongs to the Government. Outstanding bills for NTC's services
to Government are currently estimated to equal over seven months of billing
to Government agencies. Nevertheless, NTC is required to pay income tax at a
rate of 57.5% on all revenues including those not yet collected. This is a
significant drain on NTC's resources. Some of NTC's accounts receivables are
not adequately documented and, according to the FY82 audit report, may not be
collectable. NTC should therefore make adequate provisions for and/or write
off bad debts for past services and take steps to accelerate the collection
of overdue bills. The status of this issue was reviewed during negotiations
and assurances were obtained from HMG (a) that the amount billed to the
Government departments, agencies and entities by NTC for telecommunications
services rendered to them up to May 31, 1985 shall be paid by HMG in three
installments as follows: 25Z by October 15, 1985; 25Z by February 15, 1986;
and 50% by October 15, 1986; and (b) that not later than October 15, 1985,
HMG will submit to IDA for review procedures to ensure that the Government
departments, agencies and entities shall pay to NTC, within two months of
their receipt, their respective bills for telecommunications services
rendered to them after June 1, 1985, and thereafter taking into account IDA's
comments, adopt and impLement such procedures (Section 3.05(b) of draft DCA).
52.     Except for telex services, NTC's bills are prepared manualLy.  With
the commissioning of new digital telephone exchanges, the billing information
in respect of the automatic long-distance calls will be recorded on magnetic
tapes. This will require computerization of the telephone billing. NTC has
signed a contract with the National Computer Center (NCC) in Kathmandu to
handle NTC's computerized billing. The management consultants to be
appointed under the project will be required to prepare a detailed
feasibility study, undertake system analysis, assist in programming and/or
adaptation of existing standard programs and make recommendations on the
hardware--either in the form of a separate NTC computer center or in the form
of terminal equipment connected to the NCC computer. The present system of
NTC requiring subscribers to pay bills at individual exchanges and manual
verification of collection is not satisfactory and unsuited for a rapidly
expanding network. Management consultants would review these procedures,
make recommendations and assist NTC in implementing changes agreed on.
Financial Aspects
53.     NTC's past financial performance has been satisfactory, with a rate
of return well above the 10% covenanted under the third credit, and its FY84
financial position was adequate with a debt equity ratio of 70/30 and a
current ratio of 1.5.



-20-
54.     NTC will contribute 23% of the funds requirements for its FY86-90
program through net internal cash generation and subscriber deposits. The
remaining 77% will be covered by proceeds from the third IDA credit and the
proposed fourth IDA credit (13%); other loan and grants for the proposed
fourth project (42%); and government equity contribution for the JICA project
(22%). During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
will make available to NTC adequate funds to carry out the project
(Section 3.01(a) of draft DCA).
55.     Financial projections for FY86-92 indicate that NTC would need to
produce a rate of return on average net fixed assets in operation of at least
12% for each of the years during the project period to ensure satisfactory
financial performance and adequate internal cash generation to carry out the
proposed project. To achieve this objective, NTC needs to increase its
tariffs an average of 20% in FY85. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that (a) NTC will increase, by September 30, 1985, its tariffs in
effect on January 1, 1985 by at least 20% (Section 3.04 of draft DCA) and
(b) NTC will take steps, including tariff increases, to produce an annual
rate of return during FYB6-90 of at least 12% on revalued net fixed assets in
operation and for each fiscaL year thereafter at 12Z or such other rate of
return as may be agreed with IDA (Section 4.03(a) of draft PA). NTC and IDA
will review the need for further adjustments in tariffs in FY89, when the
results of the proposed study of telecommunications tariffs (para 62) are
expected to be available and the revenue earning potential of the fully
automatic long-distance traffic is known.
56.     The above projections assume that the Government will relend the
proposed IDA credit and cofinancing funds to NTC at an annual interest rate
of 12% to be repaid over 10 years after 5 years of grace, with NTC assuming
the foreign exchange risk. A subsidiary loan agreement for the proposed IDA
credit between the Government and NTC, satisfactory to IDA, shall be a condi-
tion of the effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit (Section 5.01(a) of
draft DCA). Further, since NTC's FY86-90 investment program is large com-
pared to past achievements, any major additions to the program could impose a
serious strain on NTC's financial and institutional resources. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that NTC will consult with IDA before
undertaking any works outside the appraised investment program if such works
require an investment of NRs 50 million or more in any one year
(Section 4.05(b) of draft PA). Furthermore, assurances were obtained that
ITC will not incur any debt over NRs 30 million annually during FY86-90
except for carrying out the investment program (Section 4.04(a) of draft PA)
and as from FY91 onwards, NTC shall maintain the ratio between its net
revenues and debt service of at least 1.5 times during any fiscal year
(Section 4.04(b) of draft PA).
57.     Due to initial small scale of procurement, use of expatriate labor,
high transportation costs (due to lack of roads), high cost of earth station
(commissioned in October 1982) compared to its present replacement cost,
etc., the total book value of NTC's assets in operation reflects reasonably
their current replacement cost under international competitive bidding.
Because of this, under previous projects IDA did not require NTC to revalue



-21-
its fixed assets in operation. However, recent devaluations of the Nepalese
Rupee has increased the replacement costs of the imported equipment. Under
the proposed project, NTC has agreed to assess annually the replacement costs
of its fixed assets in a manner satisfactory to IDA and, if necessary,
revalue its assets (Section 4.03(c) of draft PA).
Benefits
58.     In urban centers, it is expected that new telephone subscribers will
fo,low the pattern of existing subscribers, with about 70% of new lines being
connected to businesses and Government offices, who use the telephone mainly
in connection with economic production and distribution activities.
Furthermore, residential telephones which would account for about 30% of new
urban and rural telephones are likely to be utilized significantly for work
or business related purposes. In addition to serving the needs of economic
production and distribution activities in both urban and rural areas, the
program will also result in a substantial net cash flow from NTC to govern-
ment for use in other sectors less capable of mobilizing domestic resources.
Least Cost Solution
59.     The technical means adopted under the project are to a large extent
determined by the characteristic of the existing systems and by NTC's
decision, supported by IDA, to adopt digital technology for all future
development where economically viable and fully automate the domestic
telephone and telex services. The solutions chosen are likely to result in
the lowest costs regarding both initial investment and recurrent maintenance
and operating costs over the long run.
Fiscal Impact
60.     HMG charges NTC property tax, income tax at 57.5Z of net income
before pension provisions, custom duty at 1% for equipment financed by IDA
and other concessional funds and onlends such concessionary funds to NTC on
commercial terms. The proposed investment program is expected to increase
substantially the net flow of funds to the Government. The net fiscal
surplus that would accrue to EHMG during the program period is estimated at
about NRs 831.3 milLion (US$45 million) more than half of which originates
from concessionary funds being onlent to NTC at commercial rates. In sum,
the users of telecommunications services in Nepal will make a major contribu-
tion to the nation's fiscal efforts. NTC also generates considerable foreign
exchange in terms of expenditures by foreign tourists on domestic and inter-
national caLls originated by them within the country. A conservative
estimate indicates that the value of tourist originated calls in FY83
equalled about US$0.5 million. Based on the expected increase in interna-
tional traffic, this amount will increase to the equivalent of US$1.4 million
per year by FY90. Further, a revision of international revenue sharing
agreements could lead to a net surplus of receipts over pavments to foreign
administrations equivalent to about US$0.5 millioa in FY85 increasing to
about US$0.8 million in FY90. NTC's generation of foreign exchange is,
therefore, expected to cover a substantial portion of future debt service on



-22-
foreign loans for the sector. The extent of contribution by telecommunica-
tions sector to the foreign exchange savings or earnings by other sectors,
e.g. transport, is likely to far exceed the foreign exchange earnings
estimated above.
Tariffs
61.     With IDA's support, installation charges and subscriber deposits were
substantially increased in January 1985 and colLection rates for interna-
tional calls increased by over 20% in February 1985. Other principal
telecommunications tariffs have remained unchanged since 1978 while inflation
pushed up both capital and operating costs. Even so, NTC's revenues have
been adequate so far to maintain NTC's financiaL viability due to a sharp
increase in telecommunications traffic per subscriber since 1978. Financial
projections for FY86-90 indicate that NTC's tariffs need to be increased by
about 20% in FY86 to provide NTC with adequate funds for the local costs of
its FY86-90 investment program and to ensure its financial viability. The
need for relatively high tariff increases is mainly due to the following
factors: (a) with few exceptions, NTC's tariffs have decreased in real terms
since 1978; (b) NTC pays an income tax of over 57.5% of net income; hence,
only about 42.5Z of the revenues resulLing from a tariff increase can be used
for NTC's investment program; and (c) the JICA project will require more
funds than it will generate; hence a need for cross-subsidization from the
rest of the network. Considering the large unsatisfied demand for telecom-
munications services and that tariffs have been falling in real terms since
1978, a substantial consumer surplus would remain even after the proposed
tariff increases.
62.     It is proposed under the project to review both the level and struc-
ture of telecommunication tariffs. The general approach to the tariff study,
to be undertaken by NTC with the assistance of an expert will be that of
marginal cost pricing subject to financial and temporary supply constraints,
and would therefore consider cost structure, demand and financial aspects,
and result in both pricing policy guidelines for NTC and recommendations for
initial changes in tariff structure. The study will include a review of the
collection rates for international calls and current agreements with foreign
administrations. The results of the tariff study will be applied in deter-
mining in FY89 the tariff adjustments needed to generate additional revenues
which may be necessary at that time.
Return on investment
63.     The financial rate of return (FRR) of the proposed project, defined
as the discount rate that produces a zero net present value of projected
incremental cash flows, is 16%. The FRR of NTC's FY86-90 investment program
(the proposed IDA project and the JICA project) is estimated at 11%. The
lower return on the total investment program is due to the very low return of
the JICA project. If transfer payments (property and income taxes and custom
duties on imported goods) are eliminated from the calculation and the foreign
exchange component is shadow priced at 20% over nominal levels, the resulting
economic rate of return (ERR) of the project would be 17Z. Both the finan-



-23-
cial and economic rates of return probably understate the benefits to be
derived from the proposed program and the project. A rough minimum estimate
of the increased consumer surplus to existing subscribers as the servi es are
expanded and quality improves, and of the consumer surplus of new subscribers
(likely to be high even for the marginal subscriber since there will continue
to be a large unmet demand), was made by assuming that subscribers wiLl be
willing to pay at least FY86 tariffs in real terms during the project period.
The resulting ERR would be 24%. Further, some parts of projected equipment
installations will, in accordance with good engineering standards, have spare
capacity on completion of the project. This will enable NTC to earn from
such equipment substantial additional revenues in the future with marginal
additional investments in other equipment. Such future revenues have not
been included in the rate of return calculations though the full capital cost
has been included. Hence, the above rates of return should be regarded as
minimum estimates.
Risks
64.     Due to the large unsatisfied expressed demand for telecommunications
services, the project offers no significant risk of insufficient demand
resulting from a possible reduction in economic activity. Further, since the
project comprises a number of partly independent activities, delay in comple-
tion of an individual component would not generally prevent the use of other
completed project components. Costs and ber fits of telecommunications
projects tend to be delayed in roughly the same degree, so the impact on the
return on investment may not be significant even though delays would result
in a lower net present value of the project. The creation of a Project
Organization Unit and early invitation of bids should reduce the risks of any
substantial delays in project execution. According to a risk analysis, the
probability of the financial rate of return being under 11% is less than
0.03. A sensitivity analysis on the ERR of the project indicates that a
combination of 20% higher capital expenditures, 20% higher operating costs
and 20% lower revenues, would result in ERR of not less than 9%.
Environmental and Health Aspects
65.     The project is not expected to adversely affect the environmental or
public health in any way. On the other hand, the project would lead to more
efficient utilization of vehicles and fuel, and facilitate delivery of health
services.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between NTC and the
Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article
V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



-24-
67.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
68.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.     I recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 11, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -
TA LE C 3EANNEX I
SPAt.                 - SOCUAL x.mzumu DATA SNZET           Page  1 of 5
SNPAL                 -RSM  GROXPS (WE                         AVERAGE)S
NOSY                (MOST REBUNT ESTATE) /b
RECE.  T        LW INCON             IIDDLZ INCOR
awotk     19Otk.    ESTIIUTELk       ASIA & PACIFIC         &SA   PACIFIC
A  (TScAE SQ. U)
TOTAL                              140L.       140.6       140.8
AGRICULTURAL                        15.3        36.5         1.2
- au       Carn  (S30                  60.0       60.0        170.0                                   1091.2
inlt c N           a  CAPA
(KILOGAM  OF OIL EqUIVALENT)         2.0        10.0        10.0            272.0                   $67.3
MNlATIU  AM VITAL STATISTIC
POPULATICNRID-YEAR (TNOUAS)    9404.0    11350.0        13423.0
URSJ POPUlATIS CE OF TOTAL)           .1         3.9         6.4             21.7                    34.7
POPULATION PROJECIONS
POPULATIOW iN YEAR 2000 (M1L)                             24.3
STATIONARY POPUTION (HILL)                                71.1
POPULATION MO0ENftIS                                       1.9
PoPULATION DENSMT
PER SQ. ER.                       66.6       60.6       14.7             146.6                   261.9
PER SQ. M. AGU. LAND             266.2       101.4       365.1            345.5                  1735.1
POPULATION AGE STNUCTURE (2)
a-1 uS                          39.1        *2.0        42.2              35.6                   39.0
15-44 YRS                         57.4       53.0         54.7             59.6                    57.6
65 AND ABOVE                        .5        3 n          3.0              4.3                     3.3
POPULATION CR011W RATE:I
TOTAL                              1.4         1.9         2.6              1.9                     2.3
tUR                                4.5        *.2          5.0              4.1                     '.3
CAUDC BIRTH RATE (PlE TrOUS)        45.9        46.3        42.9             27.7                    30.1
Cum DEATH RAST (PE TEUS)            25.6        23.0        18.6             10.1                     9.5
GROSS REPRODUCTII RATC               2.7         3.1         2.9              1.8                     2.0
FAMILY FLANNEl
ACCOIS* ANIUAL (T0OUS)              ..        29.7       223.2
usERS (Z OF    ED  w)               .           ..         7.0               ..                    52.7
Fw   AM 1111171
INEX OF FooD PROD. PR CAPTTA
(1969-71-1002                      106.0       101.0        83.0            112.6                   123.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORXIES t: OF SEIREIENTS)       95.0        96.0        86.0             97.7                   11;.'
PRoTeINS (CRAS PER DAY)           51.0        51.0        ;5.0             56.8                    57.0
OF WHICH ANDIA  ND APULSE       10.0         9.0         8.0 Jc           14.9                   14.1
CHlLD (ACES 1-4) DEAUT  RATE        32.6       21.8         ZLO               9.3                     7.2
LIFE EXPECT. AT SIRTH (TEARS)       38.5       43.3         45.7             60.0                    60.4
INFANT MO"T. RATE (PER TaOUs)      L94.5      172.5        145.2             83.8                    66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (WOP)
TOTAL                               ..        LO           9.0 Id          3L9                     37.0
URSV                              *7.7       53.0         81.0 Id          70.9                    54.6
RURAL                               ..         .           5.o 7Z          2Z.1                    26.4
ACCESS TO EXREIA DISPOSAL
(2 or ortPILATtox)
TorAL                                          1.0         1.0 /.          18.1                    A1.3
LRA                                 ..        14.0        14.0 7;          12.8                    47.4
RURAL                                                                       4.6                    33.3
POPULATIO  PC PHmsCIAN           73470.0    51360.0 ff  30060.0            3484.2                  7749.6
POP. PcR "URSUIC PERSOI               ..    70500.07F  33420.0             4793.1                  2460.4
POP. PR HOSPITAL BD
TOTAL                           6260.0     6930.0       5780.0           1066.5                  104t.2
URM1                             290.0      330.0        450.0 IC         298.0                   651.2
RURAL                               ..         ..           ..           5993.                   2594.6
ADuSSIOHS PER HOSPITAL BED             .          ..          .                ..                    27.0
NaCIC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSENDLD
TOTAL                               ..         5.5          ..               ..                      ..
Ua                                 5.*     .          ..
RUUL                                ..          ..
AVACER NC OP PERSOINSROSE
TOTAL                                .          .-
UN                                 tO           ..0
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCS TO ELECT. (1CZ Or oWEL   )
TOT".                              0..         ..
1.4W                              30.2          ..
RU                                  ..          ...



-26 -                                          ANNEX I
T A I-LS 9  34                             Page  2  of  5
NErAL                   -  *00W`AL 2ND! ATOw  0^A 3
MOST                 (MOST RCESNT Esr)/
RECENT           ULW  SllC01t          14101
1960a    17tL       ZSTmATtL        AIZA a PACIptC         AIZA i PACIIC
IDWA?ZOS
ADJUSTED ENROLLMNEr PATIOS
PKIARTZY  TOTAL                     LO.O        26.0         91.0              97.4                     102.0
XALE                     19.0        43.0        126.0             110.3                     103.9
FEMALE                    1.0         6.0         53.0              93.7                     96.2
SCODAIkYs TOTAL                      6.0        10.0         21.0              35.9                     46.0
HAIS                     11.0        16.0         33.0              44.6                     41.7
FENALZ                    2.0         3.0          9.0              26.8                     43.1
VOCATEONAL CZ O  SiCONDABY)           0.2         5.6          6.6 8             2.2                     17.5
PUP S-TLACIIR RTIIO
PRIMAR                              33.0        22.0         38.0              36.5                     31.8
SECONDART                           32.0 /h       ..         31.0             1t.7                      23.5
ADULT LrTERAC RATE (s)                 a.6        13.0         1.                33.4 4                   72.9
PASSCNSR CARS/THOUSAND POP             0.1         0.4           ..               0.9                     10.1
RADSO EECIIVERU/TOUSD POP              3.0         4.6         20.5             112.1                    113.6
rv REMcWIVRS/YNOUSAND POP               .. o.                    ..              13.7                     50.1
11E'SPAP  C"AMLY CGEAL
thTEREST) CIACULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATSON              0.7         2.4          7.3  d           16.2                     53.9
CISDEA ANNUAL ATTENDANCECAITA           ..          ..           ..               3.6                      3.4
TOTAL LAOR FORCE (CTOUS)            4653.0      5534.0       7316.0
FEPMA  (PERCENT)                    40.5        39.2         38.9              33.3                     33.5
AGRICULTUZ (PRCEN)                  95.0        94.0         93.0              69.6                     32.2
INDUSTXt (PECENT)                    2.0         2.0          2.0              15.1                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               51.6        46.6         47.4              42.6                     36.7
MALE                                61.5        58.6         57.6              34.7                     50.9
FEMALE                              41.S        38.6         37.1              29.8                     26.6
ECONIIIC MEPUDENCE   RATMO             0.6         0.9          1.0               1.0                       1.1
IXIR DDITOII!W
PERCENT Olr MVATE INCUIE
RECUVCD BY
HIGHEST 51 OF HOUSEHOLDS               .          .          35.3 Ic             ..                     22.2
KIlGUEST 202 OF BOUSEHOLOS             .          .          59.2 7&             ..                     48.0
LOWEST 20S OF HOUSEHOL4S              .            .          4.6 77             .                       6.4
LOUEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS                                     12.6 7W.                                   15.5
POVg  tASC CO
ESTDSAtED ABSOLUTE POVERY  INCOM
LEVEL (USS PER CAPI)
URBAN                                 .            .         95.0 /1          133.9                    1U8.6
RURAL                                 9.          .          450 7;           111.6                    152.0
ESTMATED RELATIVE POVETY INCOUI
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..           ..                ..                    177.9
RURAL                                            1..         61.0 /              ..                    164.6
ESTI!ATED POP. BZLOW ABSOLUTE
POTMY  INCOCK LEVEL tS)
URBAN                                                        53.0 /c           43.8                     23.4
RURAL                                                           o 610 77       51.7                     37.7
NOM AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
n o T Z 3
/4   The group averagee for each Lndicator are popelatioe-woibted arlthetlc inma.  Cavera  of countries among the
indictors dopeede oan avaIlbLILy of data and Im not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year betwmen 1959 and 1961. "Data for 1970" betua.n 1969 and
1971; and date for 'MoAt Recent £aciuc' bee  1980 and 1982.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /a 1975; If Personnel in governmt aervtcee only; XL Pertentae of uonlatm;  lh 1963;
11J 19799
JUIE. 1964



-27 -
ANNEX I
wift                                                               ~~~~~~Page  3 of 5
JeanIt   eJea .  gaeImma.let..,  e pned. ii ..e.rereg   .rgma  -i.  d.f.Uef--  ha.         .  I.mSmi.fI...                                                      9
a.   m macat..regr..'et  itiu   ~mmee  a    ii*  iege  sg   sim   a.a.   hgt   nige maCS  t.citeiees  1   t
imepa.m                                      ea i.-f   agmeeg'e.md  c..   aat                                         gegi                  e    ai.m.a   regme  -s  be
aI      e    .rl..e.e    '            '       m...Y.ia.rgicn..llm  eerce    t   ..   t   ieeg...ScI   gag  Id                                                     eaeta
.-........                                                                                                                  - ..mgm.   1.ci- g. e   primeme
5~~.. a.e.g mdii game,                                          rcs.lam gee -r ts..yee         -mem~~~piia .n.    dr.I-WrpiIgIaII&   iiiei
.311                                                                                                             S~~~~~~~~~~~~ee,      .i    m.  eitl  neeaea.c  et" beegei   -td..
*.e.te..f.t...S . pIe  ee..e.       i       .       .    aeepm..giite~    eI.ee    r.e    e.i    d..mimdtiqega
meapege  am....-  -eeltee. emg. I gi-al bael.      ceettiteemeg .,emigra.meericie ire   gflit*ea  .arieeg.eip.1.11S
1.m.te. e    4aJms                                                                               ei   iimeg1m.rig    ..mebeepeldTy.eiit    .iti
M                                                                                                                   mmw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~er r ig.idd mitmmeig. g..tagdemihd
*97.1  :.aiptm.e PP   Apia -imaeieg.re   *-ee.mie  .  .i.ell       edteir.ere  .mep.ameem  . ieled  p ipeaig..I'd                     tpi aie
*rlir  g*4    te    .1   eie..-mr.mea.cemnt~aai  m.Jr-~eet.r        eage.m.,.n.  idgl. m..I agb  lfe   i'gitag   ..dali   a
a-m  eimarm    m.ete tg   mt   etrm   a  .1  ..ecae    1.   pee.mes,.get.     iemet'e.  l  ed.e   la.gl me.
8.mmee   1m  em.                                                                               deec..  -   e..mtm.a -Saii........d...a   .e  dea..I
IS-           Ili ra-      epe..  ieadi  m.  eee   -gge
t.mpe~~~~~~~aTtI~~~~~fljj~~~~~acflfli
Tst.lte-timA! . dttA                         .mim         '99 .         e    iar
init    ig  9   .a.ei   le.e   .  esetil          ..t'ntg    5ree
mat. ?.gmtelemgg.eem.reiit    amn. f  rte  ..eeeI  ent.  e..-    ee..atedgaimeel   grer  gmeaie.ml.iaeerIIereegai.I
dmep'ge   Agleicme..41  ria.gc.g  a.atfte   .eg.mbm m'   .f  iiiset   agi  at.eat,   a  ard. ccgedg. a   -   at a. a  meemidd m
im..mi  .a.ge.m.. ICic. *et.t  .94 I ej 4..                              1me teietiti fm  cmii _.me _d _m._r_ee,...kl    1
r..p~mat.me.rramrg  eee                                                 ..cei giha.at p...,  g.eree-ece  t  .hae    el  nirs  e..aie aIa
em  mmcl  *ieeamc.cmaeI   *mmAat ee   mctic              g.1 gg Le .m.Sam   g  rae   i  tei   rce    egmcei
flh ijlt -at        gme   mdetca.am..eg.m'm,di    e.crgeeg.                                                                .mmeeet           .acciaipregad
em...  r..mg.m me. .i.eater. tic  a tmetegm  mama teart.. eg  mare  .mcmen.led r.                                                             S,rIt.
Ii.maaeau.e  tit erateai,em armama.ea.ta gt esem  g tat   b-.a~   a*mearmre. micrim  el dem  ie)     meil   .t.e eS   era
Igee. 9.  legte   m,.  .c.r...  eciemmeee e  tti               ra' .eme.i                                  TVels  em   itmlm.m  fetes  gergc b.-   Sa..
..ice.je.. ecieear  pa  emecr meteram.  ie. bn mee.. me-a            melmeget  erai.   -eadcecald4.1 iela rege.ate.mp
eegt    deimia ma teremlmm.erre,dm.ei .me mecia  m..at aid n.e  teat me ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ,Ig
piiatg  recfmmrgae.a.  ca.t.eemimrg  ma mm... actiad  a  91  a... cia  (EraTee.
.meitmtue.1eeaem,  id'..,tep  rmed  ce  c.e        Idm tere                      eeedtrcmeg   im
- m  -   a imtiege  md ee-mg.gmr  grmmit          pm..._ebal-ceet  ai   ae  e..i.- C..  matam    tgA ad  fe Ia
m.epnC    i  ee-n.Ce   at   g9a-tma                                                  1at I         mmg  ra.I."-   e.aeeme  epma.
cc.    -mam..iergie   irraegimtee                                                                rereeta-p    eaetg;-cmcm..d..tee    gdbm
rapradeame .mem.l   ebarrmmi.retcbcm        egee.ee-eimmdltdcea.mca..    aae                                                                                       eaita
beceed  m.   ta  aic.ereraa.ma-m    ... m..tL..  _-Iba   mebie. Ietic                       cae.aiipamIi 'tma                         ...tr.ed.c    a na
ma   ee  c.   I.  .....ia. ea   e.  ar.teg   .mc....aal.gttdd
e.aim   *  a  iplelee9  bee.ec      m a..cd   e    ta m  c  mme..im..t  .ttmemm   (eeeageqiemtmg..l-  .ia1m.e  gegtecle
memmgeeemeac  mmpeae i.em.tagpepta  mata  a.  ta  je*m                   art.d  ei-a.ta~  eamarmi.  t aberpt.c                   tic qIdg
ma. ieesumme. bee  r.tmime rgI.i e  ~         min   r                                 ampe.. re             cfem     ateercteei`emWl
Imega  le                      allaa.emrea   eimmeISI.   ia..  eit                                                                                         1   gd.   a  b
pmer ~ ~ ~ ~  ~        ~        ~       ~        ~      ~ ~ ~ ~~~l =c g   1-t.pclem-.m.c..e.  .'. a eta7i l.rm.metftne
'seam  area   cci. mete. ...g  am                                       94.~~~~~~~mmld  elamei. n. . me.a        iei.a.eei            gc        damla
Ic    .-   .trtat    a     C..md   c-.  p.ac.eaa                     m.  aneegIrtZedi  eemete   si   icar   dcr
.e.mc~~~~~~~ mta.t.  cc. .me.. mid. dame. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     IKL.II
big tt ee-eVeceitee   catiee  -   Ic. dP-m .t~tan        i.cge    m-                    iiet



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMllC INDICATOIR - NPAL
CGP PER CAPITA IN 1983:  8170
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODWCT 1N 1983/S4                                       ANNUAL RATE OF CROZE. 1974/75-191184
(Z, constant prices)
GDP at Market Prices                2,483       100.0                                 3.3
Gross Doametic Investment             481        19.4
Gross Domstic saving                  261        10.3
Current Account Balance (exc.
official grants)                    -175        -7.0
Exports of Goods. N78                 274        11.0
Imports of Goods, NFS                 494        19.9
OUTPUT. L.UOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITI IN 1981/82
Value Added
Value Added              Labor Force A/         PFr Vorker
USS Mln.      Z             Kin.      Z                USS
Agriculture                         1.092         59            6.3    91.0                173
Industry g/                           253         14            0.2      3.0            1,265
Services                              493         27            0.4      6.0            1-232
Total/Average                  1,830        100            6.9      100              266
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVIRrHNT
Re. Kiu.
Z of GDP
1980/81      1981/62       1962183      193/64        1963/84
Current Receipt.                      2,403         2.668        2.808         3.364          8.8
Regular Expenditures                  1.264         1.523        L.9O          2.070         1.4
Current Surplue                       1,139         1.145          818         1.294         3.4
Development Expenditure               2.731         3,727        4,982         5,060        13.3
External Assistance (Net)             1.531         1,688        2,028         2.246         6.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
Eat.
1980         1981          1982         1983         1984
(Million Rs outstanding mid-July)
Money and Quasi money                            5,285        6,308         7,459         9,222       10,458
Bank Credit to Government                        1,362        1,357         2,132         4,131        4,781
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises                  501          668           675           972          959
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    2,547        3,231         3,307         3,429        4,048
Money and Quasi Money as.   of GDP                22.6         21.7          22.9          27.4         27.4
General Price Index (1974/75 - 1003              128.7        145.9         161.2         184.1        197.5
Annua  Percentage CbhnSes in:
General Price Index                                9.8         13.4          10.4           14.2         7.3
Bank Credit to Goverment                          15.8         -0.4          57.1          93.8         15.7
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises                 14.9         33.3           1.0          44.0         -1.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     28.9         26.9           2.4           3.7         18.1
Note: All conwersionu to IIS dollars in this table are at the sverage exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
Fiscal year data are for Nepalece fiscaL year. July 16 - July 15.
a/ Total Labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
li Includes mining, manufacturing, construction and utilities.



- 29-
ANNEX  I
1911/(2  19821S    3      1983/5L          EICULoDr   XORTS 198318    Page  5 of 5
(ASS~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~S Ni11iou
btaanc  of Paymeftl
AgriculturaL producrU                  88.5          79
2xporte                            277.6         250.4        273.3          Kanufaccuree                           DA            21
Norchandlese  .o.b              115.6 t2.3                112.4
Non-factor Services             162.0        168.1         161.3          Total                                112.4          Lo0
Imports                            4S0.3        521.6        494.3
Merchandise c.L.f               352.5        459.0        430.1           EXTRIIIAL DECT. DECE4SXR 31. 1983
Non-factor Service.              68.0          62.6         64.2
Resource Cap                        172.8        271.2        220.7
Public Debt. inc. guaranted                346.4
Net factor Income                    12.5         13.0          1.3          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                  -
Yet Curreut Transfers               40.6          41.7         44.9          Total Outcatanding & Di)bureed             346.4
Current Account Deficit             119.8        216.5        174.5
Official Great Aid                   89.4         95.3        104.2          DEBT SKRVI7! RaTIO for 1963/t4               :
Not M&Lr Loans                      59.8         67.0          70.8          Public Debt. inc. guaranteed                 3.4
Disburtsments                    62.3         69.9          76.0
Repayment*                        2.5           2.9          5.2
Capital Plowe N.C.7.                  9.3          5.2         -8.3          1RS/WDA LENDlIRC  Sept. 30. 1984 (Millions USS)
Overall Balance                     38.8        -49.0          -7.8                                                   USS HlI.
Change in Met Reserves             -38.8         49.0           7.8                                                [RBD    IDA
(-increase)
Outstanding & Disbursed                 -    195.0
Inlernational leserves             232.6         164.3       117.1           Undisbureed                             -    304.8
(Kid July)
Outstanding. Encl. undieburued           -    499.8
RATE OF EXCEUAUCE
From Marcb 20. 1978          From September 19. 1981       From Deember 17. 1982
to September 18. 1981        to December 16. 1982          to May 31. L983
USS1.00 - NUl  12.00         USSI.O0 - NUa 13.2            US51.00 - Nls 14.3
Ni 1.00 - USS 0.083          NR 1.00 - USS 0.076           NR 1.00 - USS 0.070
Moet Recent Rates aI
June 30. 1984   _            September 3D. 1984            December 31. 1984        Januarv 31. 1985
USSI.00 - NHR  16.4          USSI.00 * NR* 17.3            USS1.OO - NRY  18.0      USSI.OO - NRs 18.4
NRI1.OC  - USS  0.061        !11 1.00 - USS 0.058          Na l.00 - uSs 0.056   NK  1.00 - USS 0.054
a/  Since June 1. 1983. the Nepal Rascra Bank announces rhe exchange rate daily.
based on a trade-weighted basket, vich the US dollar as the intervention
currency. The race shown here is che mid-rate on the date indicaced.
South Asia Country Programs
February 26. 1985



ANNEX    II
30 -                        Page I    of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of September 30. 1984) &/
US$ million
(net of cancellations)
No.    Year      Borrower         Purnose                           IDA   Undisbursed
Ten credits fully disbursed                                         82.3
470    1974  Kingdom of Nepal  Water Supply and Sewerage           11.8        1.1
704    1977  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Water Supply & Sewerage   8.0            2.3
705    1977  Kingdom of Nepal  Industrial Dev. Corporation          4.0        0.7
730    19-;,  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Highway                     17.0        1.7
772    1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Technical Education                  5.7        2.2
799    1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Telecommunications III              14.5       4.3
812    1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Sunsari-Morang)         30.0       15.4
856    1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Narayani Zone)          14.0        5.6
939    1979  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Rural Development            11.0        8.8
1008    1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Community Forestry                  17.0       14.3
1055    1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Mahakali)               16.0       14.2
1059    1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Third Water Supply & Sewerage   27.0           15.2
1062c/  1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Grain Storage                        6.2        4.3
1093c/  1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Babai)                   3.5        0.3
1OOc/  1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Agricultural Extension & Res.   17.5            7.2
llOlc/  1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Hill Food Production                 8.0        5.1
1191c/  1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Cottage & Small Industries           6.5       3.6
1198c/  1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Education                    14.3       11.5
1260cJ  1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  9.2           4.7
1316c/  1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation VII-Bhairawa-Lumbini 16.0          12.4
1339c/  1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Cash Crop Development Project    6.0           4.9
1379c/  1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Technical Assistance
Project                          6.0       5.5
1400c/  1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Forestry Project             18.0      16.7
1452c/  1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Karnali Preparation Project
(Phase I)                      11.0       10.2
1463c/d01984  Kingdom of Nepal  Primary Educatior                   12.7       12.7
1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Marsyangdi Hydroelectric
Power Project c/e/             107.0     107.0
1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Third Highways c/el                47.5       47.5
Total,                            547.7     339.4
of which has been repaid          0.5
Total now outstanding b/          547.2
Total now held by IDA             547.2
a? No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
h/ Prior to exchange adustments.
cJ  IDA 6th Replenishment Credits, principal amounts shown in U.S. dollar
equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown in President Reports, and
risbursed amounts shown in US dollar equivalent at the rate of exchange
for the SDR on September 30, 1984.
d/ Not yet effective.
e/ Not yet signed.



- 31 -
ANNEX   II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of September 30. 1984)
Amount ($ million)
Year              Obligor            Type of Business          Loan  Equity  Total
1975    Soaltee Hotel (Pvt) Ltd.   Hotel                       2.7    0.4      3.1
1982    Nepal Orind Magnesite        Mine and process         4.8      -      4.8
(Private) Limited          magnesite ore
Total commitments now held by IFC                     7.5    0.4      7.9



ANNEX III
-32-                          Page  1
NEPAL
FOURTH TELECOMMONICATIONS PROJECT
SupElementarv Proiect Data Sheet
Section I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to DreDare the Droiect
One year
(b) The ARency which has Prepared the proiect
Nepal Telecommunications Corporation (ETC)
(c) Date of first Presentation to the Bank Group
April 4, 1983
(d) Date of departure of the appraisal mission
September 4, 1983
(e) Date of completion of neRotiatinas
February 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
August 1985
Section II.   Special IDA Implementatiun Action
None
Section III.  Special Conditions
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
(a)  NTC shall have issued bid invitations from
suppliers for subscriber facilities, transmission
equipment for rural areas and expansion equipment for
earth station to be financed under IDA credit (para 44);
(b)  That the Borrower has secured, on reasonable terms
from sources outside Nepal, the financing for purposes
of covering the foreign cost of those project components
to be cofinanced; and that all conditions of effective-
ness of the agreement(s) providing for such financing,
other than the effectiveness of the IDA credit, if that
be the case, have been met (para 44).
(c) HNE and NTC shall have signed a relending agreement for
the IDA credit under terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDE. (para 56).



-30600r
~/,Darc uIa
s ar  W<at~~r 
(  oi           Cltomnpur
-A  R  N  A   Lj' I
*(.      -~Ž~ ->< k  /  -~ Mariods                                                             N
DADELDHURAY -   I'                                    /                    )
*  ~~~.             S  ~~~-JUMIAt 
8e  2 >DIPAVAL-  lmongolsen  Manrn    J
/
Mahendro   Or
>   t  \ ~~~~~~\~~KX   1~~Doilekht                                  
%, * CK S <;E, '~~~~~~~~~~~Jogorkot                  M     usl4  8//
~~RojopurSukhe
N          ;    *        *\\   \  Libang Goon                                     PO
*  GulPraU'yo f/                                 / _ ;iAGLU                      *
-28'      -                                     K~
-2a-                  > f Z                 (ULSIPUR\> ->L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Pyutht2 ]rtt
INEPALGANJ                  I GhorK               T                So\
N..                    I~~~~~.  iDo-
'X/'N. GeAaS\
KATHMANDU VALLEY                                                     ° o                 \.  '                  0
1 fXl\                                                            rishnonagor             .a s -- P?a
B   A   G   _IM'A   T  I                                              _T,UI   wa                    ,      ../
4    4    /        *               T   ;Vee_{
KILOMETERS
o -50                          100            150             200
MILES
M  ris nw ius heen D'eDeeod by rne Wulot ear s staf e.cAg.' for 1t conven.nce of
mhe \  and Is r.cius-* for ihe e,terrus .,se of The VWbrtd Bank en whe kernufonal
France Cr roat.on rTe dnoeVbns used and the boundarrs show, n It.s rrn6 do not
.n% \,n I? tprr of the Waorld Parl and tne hfemah.Inl F.nCe Corwrat.on. an&'r pxWnE
\on 'e bvll status of any tIenrc oo anv erndomen,hvt or ccence of surh bOuranes
N A R A Y A N I              %iX                         82'                                                             84'



IBRO 17643R
N E PA L
TELECOMMUNICATION DEVELOPMENT (FY 86 -90)
JICA PROJECT
IDA TELECOMMUNICATIONS IYPROJECT:               - - --    Rural Communication Links
Microwave Links                                         Public Call Offices                            3,-
*      New Digital EKchanges
*      Public Call Oflices'                                     EXISTING;
Micfowave / UHF Links
Satellite Earth Stotion (See Inset)
P C 0 shown wn'houl tnasmffssion nml             *      Digital Exchanges
Wil/ be colvected to moin transm,ssnois*                Manual Exchanges to be replaced by
network by multioccess radio links                        Digital Exchanges
A      Cross Bar Exchanges
0      Microwave Repeater Stations
DHARAN   Zone Headquarters
*1r                                                                   Pyuthan   District Headquarters
Koi/oba5  Other Towns with telephone service
District Boundaries
A1 fy                                       -Zone Boundories
--/<                          *-   Internattonal Boundaries
Chome
*i~~~~~~i
-i '--0                                                    \
a ~~/                                                         A@Jvto
I .  ,Fnr M Town
-eico t  r                    1.- >     1
1 ~~Be~~o7                 * Dhuncbe-~~\             (                                                                   8
.,6                               Ho~~- 'Nlambu  -~ N.'                 Nmh
50   1idg,   T*    *haut~                                              OF <                                        ( C
Bharatw ow..d    n Carikot     
NAPAV4N/;  a   ,    'C)(JA..   ~so                         I N  E C  H
H~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~Oblhna   . E TAJU                            Khandbari        Taplejung
ULIMADI!__  ~.-  .~-          lBho1pur         /
loni    -mKoloiy                                     Dhci.kw~S   /@    ?   hohu,i.
Birgn1                                                                  0ankun'    \
I        N    D   I  A                                                                                                G -  hdhi 
Bi6                         88
86                                                             88r
MARCH 1985






