Report No. PIC3422
Project Name              India-Rural Women's Development and...
Empowerment Project
Region                    South Asia
Sector                    Human Resources
Project ID                INPA44449
Implementing Agency       Department of Women and Child Development
Ministry of Human Resources
Government of India
Date Prepared             November 1996
Project Board Date        January 1997
1.   Project Objectives.   Given the pervasive nature of the issues that
negatively impact on women, the overall objective of the project would
be to strengthen processes that promote economic development of women
and create an environment for social change. The specific objectives
would be to: (a) establish women's self-help groups (SHGs) which build
self-reliance and self-confidence and provide them greater access to and
control over resources; (b) sensitize and strengthen the institutional
capacity of support agencies (government, NGOs and banks) to proactively
address women's needs; (c) increase the incomes of poor women through
their involvement in income generating activities, thereby contributing
to poverty alleviation; (d) develop linkages between SHGs and lending
institutions to ensure women's access to credit financing; and (e)
improve access to better health care, education and drudgery reduction
facilities.
2.   Project Description. The project would be implemented over a five
year period and would pursue its objectives through the following
components:
(a) Institutional Capacity Building for Women's Development. The
project would finance establishment of women's thrift and credit
SHGs with the help of NGOs, and building their capacity through
training and awareness raising. The project would assist SHGs to
establish a track record of sound credit management based on their
own savings and strengthen the capacity of support agencies, e.g.,
WDCs, NGOs, banks and line departments to provide them better
service;
(b) Establish Support Mechanisms for Income Generating Activities.
The project would assist SHGs to access group loans from lending
institutions for investments in income generating activities,
following demonstration of capacity for credit management. In
addition, it would finance skill training, technology transfer,
technical support and promotion of market linkages;
(c) Establish Mechanisms to Access Social Programs and Leverage
Funds for Creation of Community Assets. To improve quality of
women's lives and release time for productive purposes, the project
through financing for training, provisions of simple health and



functional literacy kits and advocacy would assist in improving
women's access to social services such as health and child care.
It would also help to finance community assets such as drinking
water and multipurpose meeting halls by leveraging contributions
from on-going government programs and the community. Priorities
for such investments would be decided in consultation with the
communities; and
(d) Provide an Effective Project Management System. The project
would finance strengthening of management capacity of central and
state level agencies to implement the project based on
implementation experience and feedback provided by the concurrent
monitoring and evaluation system to be established under the
project.
3.   Project Implementation. The Department of Women and Child
Development, Ministry of Human Resource Development, GOI (DWCD) would be
the overall coordinating agency for the project. At the central level,
an advisory body comprising of experts drawn from official and non-
official sources and NGOs with experience in SHGs would be established
to guide the implementation of the project. This body would also advise
states in the selection of appropriate NGO partners. Within the states,
the project would be coordinated by the Women's Development Corporations
(WDCs), except for Uttar Pradesh where the Land Development Corporation
would be the executing agency. The principal partners in implementation
would be the NGOs, credit institutions, district line departments and
other technical support agencies. Under WDCs, a Project Management Unit
would be established in each state and Project Coordination Units would
be established in each district. At the district level, linkage with
the line departments and other support service providers would be
achieved through a District Project Coordination Committee chaired by
the District Magistrate. Management of the dairy sub-components would
be integrated with the UP and Bihar Dairy Federations' on-going programs
for the formation of WDCS.
4.   Project Cost and Financing. Total project costs are estimated to be
Rs. 2,310 million (US$53.5 million equivalent), including physical and
price contingencies (US$2.5 million) and taxes and duties estimated at
US$0.9 million equivalent. The direct and indirect foreign exchange cost
is estimated to be US$1.6 million, or 3t of total project costs. The
project costs in the different participating states would be: Bihar -
US$5.4 million; Gujarat - US$9.0 million; Haryana - US$4.8 million;
Karnataka - US$9.0 million; Madhya Pradesh - US$8.5 million; Uttar
Pradesh - US$14.5 million and the CPSU - US$2.3 million.
5.   The proposed external financing for the project of US$38.7 million
would comprise an IDA Credit of US$19.5 million and an IFAD loan of
US$19.2 million. This would finance 74 W of the project costs net of
taxes. If the institutional finance contribution to the project is
excluded, the project cost becomes US$45.0 million and the external
assistance of US$38.7 million then represents 86t of the project costs
which represent expenditure by Government. The Governments of Bihar,
Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh would
finance US$2.9 million (6.3w of project costs) including taxes of US$0.8
million and GOI US$0.5 million including taxes of US$0.1 million.
- 2 -



Institutional finance would finance US$8.5 million (16t of project
costs) and the beneficiaries would contribute US$2.9 million (5.4w of
project costs). The IDA Credit/IFAD loan would be made available on the
standard terms and conditions to GOI which would bear the foreign
exchange risk. As a centrally sponsored project, the proceeds of the
credit/loan would flow through MHRD/DWCD to the states as grant.
6.   Environmental and Social Aspects. Environmental Impact. The project
is unlikely to have any negative impact on the environment. Credit for
dairy animals would be dependent on the cultivation of adequate
supplementary fodder. Smokeless chulas and bio-gas plants would be
encouraged to reduce pressure on the forests for fuelwood. Micro-
enterprise activities would be artisan based, small enterprises which
will neither adversely affect the natural resource base nor cause
atmospheric pollution. Poverty Aspects. A large proportion of project
beneficiaries will be from poor and underprivileged segments of the
states' population. Gender Issues. The project would provide women
with greater access to credit, develop self-reliance amongst women,
create institutions to improve delivery mechanisms for credit and
services, and strengthen womens' ability to control their own affairs by
strengthening their management and technical skills. Specifically, the
project would expand the involvement in economic activity and increase
the incomes of beneficiary households. In addition, the project would
establish the creditworthiness of the beneficiaries, improving their
prospects for obtaining credit in formal financial sector institutions.
The project would also contribute to strengthening the various
intervenors, enabling them to be more effective in implementing similar
programs. Indigenous Populations (Scheduled Tribes). With a tribal
population in the districts chosen for project investment ranging from
between 7t (Kolar, Karnataka) to 459 (Panchmahals, Gujarat), tribal
peoples are likely to be substantial beneficiaries of the project in
selected districts. During preappraisal, the needs of tribal women and
their constraints in providing these needs would be identified and a
specific action plan would be developed to address these needs.
Contact Point       Ashok Seth, Task Manager
The World Bank
Washington D.C.
Tel: (202) 458-1438
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending November 15, 1996.
- 3 -



