                      Document of
                  The World Bank




                                                Report No: 35395

        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
           (IDA-29420 COFN-04390 PPFI-P9850)

                        ON A

                       CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 12.5MILLION

                 TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                        INDIA

                       FOR A

RURAL WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT AND EMPOWERMENT PROJECT




                   February 21, 2006

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective Ocotber 15, 2005)

                           Currency Unit = Indian Rupees
                                Rs. 44.77 = US$ 1
                                   US$ 1 = Rs. 44.77

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                April 1   March 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




BCC                  Business Counseling Centres
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CPSU                 Central Project Support Unit
DEA                  Department of Economic Affairs
DO                   Development Objective
DPM                  District Project Managers
DWCD                 Department of Women and Child Development
GOI                  Government of India
IDA                  International Development Agency
IFAD                 International Fund for Agricultural Development
M & E                Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS                  Management Information System
NABARD               National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
SHG                  Self-Help Group
SPSC                 State Project Steering Committee
SPWG                 State Project Working Group
WDC                  Women's Development Corporation

                          Vice President:     Praful Patel
                        Country Director      Michael F. Carter
                         Sector Manager       Junaid K. Ahmad
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Varalakshmi Vemuru

                                            INDIA
      RURAL WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT AND EMPOWERMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26

Project ID: P044449                                                  Project Name: RURAL WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: Varalakshmi Vemuru                                      TL Unit: SASES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 2, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: RURAL WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT                                L/C/TF Number: IDA-29420;
                                                                                                     COFN-04390;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P9850
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (66%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (12%); General
                            water, sanitation and flood protection sector (12%); Central government administration (8%);
                            Health (2%)
                  Theme: Gender (P); Participation and civic engagement (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                            Small and medium enterprise support (P); Improving labor markets (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/13/1996                                     Effective: 06/27/1997                04/26/1999
     Appraisal: 06/15/1996                                         MTR: 09/15/1999                  03/14/2001
      Approval: 03/27/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of India/Department of Women and Child Development
                      Other Partners:      International Fund for Agriculture and Development

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Robert S Drysdale
Sector Manager:                 Junaid K. Ahmad                                Richard Skolnik
Team Leader at ICR:             Varalakshmi Vemuru                             Ashok K Seth
ICR Primary Author:             Asta Olesen


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
Quality at Entry was rated Marginal.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Overall Objective of the project is "to strengthen processes that promote economic development of
women and create an environment for social change". The specific objectives would be to: (a)
establishing women's self-help groups (SHGs) to build members' self-reliance and self-confidence, and
to provide them greater access to and control over resources; (b) sensitizing and strengthening the
institutional capacity of support agencies in government, NGOs and banks, to proactively address
women's needs; (c) increasing incomes of poor women through income generating activities; (d)
developing linkages between self-help groups and lending institutions to ensure women's access to credit
financing; and (e) improving access to health care, education and drudgery reduction facilities.

3.1.1 Assessment.
The Project Development Objective was highly relevant to the general situation of women across the
states in India when the project was designed and continues to be. The project was prepared at a time
when the Government of India had made attempts to operationalize the concerns for women's equality
and empowerment (Seventh Five year Plan), was emphasizing women as equal partners and
participants in the development process (Eight Five Year Plan) and was proposing to earmark 30% funds
of certain development programs for expenditure on women (Ninth Five Year Plan: 1997- 2001). When
the project was being prepared, thrift and credit or self help groups (SHGs) were being seen as vehicles
for meeting the expanding need of women for improving access to credit, particularly to small loans to
allow them to engage in risk-averse, multi-production strategies and thereby improving livelihoods of
their families.

The project was also consistent with the Department of Women and Child Development, Government of
India's women-in-development strategy emphasizing: (i) women's increased access to basic amenities
and services; (ii) addressing issues of gender bias and social constraints in access and creating an
effective demand for services; and (iii) linking economic and social services to enhance effectiveness.
The project was consistent with the Bank's India Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), for FY96-98
emphasizing the need to support the government's development policies aimed at reducing poverty,
facilitating greater private sector participation, and accelerating human resource development with
special attention to gender issues. Furthermore, the FY97 progress report on CAS stressed the need for
Bank operations to focus attention on the redressal of gender inequalities to enhance the quality and
level of economic development in the country. The project was consistent with the policy changes
pursued under the World Bank supported Rural Financial Reform Program which aimed i.a. to expand
poverty-reduction activities, especially the SHG linkage program already started by National Bank for
Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD).

The project was also consistent with IFAD's - the co-financier of the project - Strategy for "Economic
Advancement of Poor Rural Women" stressing the need for: (i) rural women to organize themselves in
order to benefit from economic development; (ii) modification of social attitudes; (iii) enhanced and
easily accessible financial services for poor rural women, based upon their own mobilization of savings;
(iv) improved social service to contribute to their productivity; and (v) promotion of women's role in
development and their control over resources at their disposal.

3.1.2 In the above context, the project was a pilot attempting to tackle some of the factors constraining
the concept of SHGs taking root including (i) institutional capacity of governments and nongovernmental
agencies to address both the social and economic needs of women; (ii) greater emphasis on self-reliant
grassroots organizations such as thrift and credit groups, using a bottom-up rather than a target
approach; (iii) provision of access to skills and resources for women, and the use of these for maximizing
earnings and contributing to poverty alleviation; (iv) better access to support services like health care,
education, child care and drudgery reducing technologies; and (v) social acceptance and support for
women being equal partners in the family and community affairs. In spite of being a pilot, the project was
ambitious in scale and scope. It was implemented across initially 6 states namely Haryana, Bihar,
Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, later on to a total of 9 states including
Uttaranchal, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh owing to bifurcation of three project states. It covered 57



                                                      - 2 -

districts - three phases, establishing a total of 17,647 self-help groups against an original target of 7,400.
While the design was uniform, the capacity, the critical issues and needs of the various states to
implement the program differed widely. The multi-state nature of the project with a Central Unit was
important for states like Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Haryana which benefited from central
support and cross-learning from other, more advanced states.

3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision of objectives during the course of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of :
(a) Institutional capacity building for women's development comprising;
(b) Support mechanisms for women managed income generating activities;
(c) Mechanisms to access social programs and leverage funds for community assets creation; and
(d) Provision of effective project management systems.

(a) Capacity Building for Women's Development (US$ 14 million, 28% of base cost)

The formation of strong and sustainable self-help groups was the primary focus of this component. To
facilitate this, the participating agencies were sensitized to gender equity issues, oriented to the self-help
group concept and trained in specific skills which they would be required to impart to the self-help
groups. Specific activities under this component were :
         (i) Establishment of self-reliant women's groups involving a) formation/induction of self-help
groups, b) self-help group capacity building, c) formation of new groups with the help of old self-help
groups, d) promotion of self-help group clusters and associations, and e) NGO support.

         (ii) Strengthen participating agencies to support women's development including a) strengthening
implementation capacity of the women's development corporations, b) strengthening the capacity of
partner NGOs, and c) sensitize staff at financial institutions to gender issues, participatory management
and communication

(b) Women Managed Income Generating Activities (US$ 20,3 million, 40% of base cost)

Economic activities taken up were selected by the women participants from a range of on-farm and
non-farm activities, individually or in groups. The uptake of income generating activities were facilitated
through access to credit, skill training, technology transfer, technical support and promotion of market
linkages, supported by a communications component:

         (i) Mobilization of investment funds for income generating activities: The two main sources of
investment funds for income generating activities would be members' own equity represented by their
savings, and credit from lending institutions. Group members' expertise in credit management, which
would determine a self-help group's ability to access funds from lending institutions, would be developed
through a step-wise process, including provision of training to self-help groups in credit management.

         (ii) Provision of business management and technical support services to self-help group
members, including a ) On-farm activities, aimed at consolidating the food and income base of
participating women through improved sustainability of land and water conservation measures, followed
by introduction of new activities with potential for higher financial returns, and b) Non-farm activities,
supporting the contracting of specialized agencies to conduct market studies and techno-economic
surveys at village level to develop a menu of options for feasible, location specific, investment
opportunities with market potential, based initially on local skills and resources.

(c) Community Assets Creation and Access to Social Programs (US$ 7,8 million, 15% of base
cost)




                                                      - 3 -

The project would facilitate group access to social services and assist in leveraging funds for the
provision of community health, child care, drinking water supply, sanitation and community halls.
Specific activities to be financed under the project were:
         (i) Health promotion - where health care was identified as a priority and a gap in services was
identified, a community selected person would be trained to promote preventive health care information
at community level.

         (ii) Child care for working mothers

         (iii) Assistance to leverage funds for community asset creation: communities would be assisted
to create needed assets such as drinking water facilities, sanitation, multipurpose halls or acquire
teaching/learning materials for schools or pre-school groups, according to a set of criteria. A fixed
sum of Rs. 60,000 would be provided per natural village to leverage resources from other schemes as
well as community contributions, and serve as nuclei of larger community development activities.

(d) Project Management System (US$ 9 million, 17 % of base cost)

The provision for project management complemented the overall institutional capacity building
interventions and were directed to the effective implementation of project activities with the support of
the comprehensive M & E system. The following was included:

         (i) Project management, strengthening the capability of the Department of Women and Child
Development of the Ministry of Human Resource Development to support the project through the
establishment of a Central Project Support Unit (CPSU). The project would similarly strengthen the
capabilities of the state Women's Development Corporations to manage the day-to-day implementation
of the project.

         (ii) Concurrent Monitoring and Evaluation in view of the pilot nature of the project and the need
to benefit from implementation experiences: A comprehensive Monitoring and Evaluation system
comprising a computerized project management system, management information system, and
concurrent monitoring and evaluation to assess implementation progress, quality of performance and
sustainability on an on-going basis.

3.3.1 Assessment.
Satisfactory. The components were well related to the Development Objective of the project, spanning a
range of relevant activities from mobilization and group formation, capacity building and issue-based
training, credit facilitation, mobilization of investment funds to institutional capacity building in
government and partner NGOs, changes in policies, and mobilization of public and private sector
services. The activities under various components were adequately linked to form a coherent set of
interventions. The components incorporated the thinking among the various partners - GOI, World Bank,
IFAD and different state Government experiences available at that time. The experiences from this
project, other concurrent self-help group-based programs in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, and the
Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation Project which focused on community institutions and women's
empowerment, reveal that internal lending and credit facilitation for self-help groups combined with
capacity building and marketing information and support result in strengthened household livelihood
strategies and improved risk management. The use of an independent agency to assist in the M & E is
also essential.

3.4 Revised Components:
There was no formal revision of the components. However, following the bifurcation of Uttar Pradesh,
Bihar and Madhya Pradesh and at the government's request, the project legal documents were amended
to include the new states of Uttaranchal, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh as separate legal entities under the
project. The closing date of the project was extended in view of the late start of the project and to allow
accomplishment of the Development Objective and achieving sustainability. While the components
remained unchanged, targets of certain milestones were determined along with each state's declared
commitment.



                                                      - 4 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Marginal. There was a Quality at Entry Assessment undertaken in January 1998. The final report from
the assessment rated the overall quality at entry as "Marginal". Some of the other areas that were also
rated "Marginal" were (i) the appropriateness of the project approach, the level of complexity, strength of
borrower ownership; (ii) project design not adequately accounting for Borrower ownership, financial and
institutional issues; (iii) Capacity of the executing agency to implement the project; and (iv) the realism
and quality of project implementation plan and the readiness of the first year plan for implementation.
Bank Inputs and Processes were rated "Satisfactory".

Though the project was approved by the Board on March 4, 1997, effectiveness could not be declared till
April 26, 1999 owing to lack of Cabinet Clearance from Government of India which was received in
September 1998. Other reasons for further delay included noncompliance with Conditions of
Effectiveness, which required the Borrower to furnish IDA with: (i) the legal opinion of GOI and the
project states on the project documents; (ii) a signed contract with the selected monitoring and evaluation
agency; (iii) documentation regarding the appointment of several key staff at central and state levels;
and (iv) evidence of remittance of first deposits of counterpart funds to each state's Women
Development Corporation. This delay caused considerable loss of momentum in commitment and pace
of implementation, leading to slow start-up and disbursement lags and led to the project being declared
unsatisfactory both on the progress of implementation and achievement of Development Objective.
While these ratings were subsequently upgraded in February 2000, the areas that were rated marginal
during the Quality at Entry Assessment, proved to be major obstacles in project implementation.
However, early into project implementation and during Mid-Term Review of 2001, these issues were
analyzed and certain corrective measures attempted.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
This ICR does not make an attempt to present a comparison of project achievements across states. The
nine states that participated in the project differed from one another in terms of (i) the social and cultural
scenarios determining the ease/difficulty of mobilizing very poor women; (ii) poverty levels are
incomparable as the poor in one state are better off than even the better off in another state; (iii) different
primary focus of states ­ e.g. social empowerment including fighting son preference (Haryana),
economic empowerment (Karnataka and Gujarat); overall empowerment (Bihar and Madhya Pradesh);
(iv) different literacy and numeracy skills requiring entirely different strategies for communication and
time taken to stabilize institutions; (v) extreme variations in institutional and implementation capacity
such as quality of staff, WDC experience with SHGs and women's empowerment, NGOs and their
experience, state of markets, capacity building and training institutes, Universities and other Think
Tanks; (vi) considerable variation in the out reach of the banking sector and responsiveness of the
bankers to the poor; and (vii) differences in the overall status of service delivery in the individual states
reflecting on the availability of basic services to poor women.

This ICR draws on certain key documents including (i) Swa-Shakti. Impact Evaluation Report. prepared
by the Lead Monitoring and Evaluation Agency and (ii) In-depth Evaluation of Swa-Shakti Project by
International Institute of Development Management Technology (Annex 7).

The overall rating is Satisfactory. The major achievements of the project include: (i) creation of 17,647
against an original target of 7,400 SHGs with a membership of 240,000 women with 79% belonging to
vulnerable population groups; (ii) 90% women members could freely articulate their thoughts - opinions,
needs, suggestions; (iii) 90 % women reported access to and control over domestic resources like land,
house and livestock; (iv) 77% women participated in decision making regarding sale or purchase of
movable assets; (v) 9% of SHGs had their members elected to the Gram Panchayats; (vi) average
annual incomes of women increased by as much as 100% in nominal terms and 60% in real terms; (vii)
dependence on wage labor reduced from 64% to 33% with greater reliance on owner cultivation, animal
husbandry and allied activities and enterprises as livelihood options; (viii) 70% groups accessed bank
linkages; and (ix) significant increases in access to services - 96% girls were in schools, 96% of eligible



                                                      - 5 -

pregnant women had availed pre-natal care, five fold increase in access to sanitary toilets, etc.

The above stated assessment of the achievement of the Overall Development Objective is made on the
basis of the achievement of specific objectives 1-5 detailed below.

DO 1: Establish women's self-help groups (SHGs) which build self-reliance and self-confidence and
provide them greater access to and control over resources. Highly Satisfactory. The project has
exceeded the original target of 7 400 self-help groups with more than 100%. By project end on an
average across the project states, 78% groups report regularity in meetings, maintenance of records and
savings; over 80% report awareness of social issues, such as "legal age for girls' marriage" and 89%
reported ability to travel outside village for reasons of training, visits, meetings etc. as compared with the
baseline of 25%. More than 90% of the women stated access to and control over domestic resources.

The increase of self-confidence among women and their access to and control over various resources
have been determined through eleven indicators ranging from 'women being vocal', 'voicing demands'
to 'control over income', 'confidence in handling cash' and 'ownership, control over and access to assets'.
The project has had significant impact on strengthening group members' self-confidence, awareness of a
range of important issues related to women's rights and strengthened their ability to address these both
inside their households and in the wider community.

An assessment of the extent of awareness, perceptions and attitudinal changes among the members of
self-help groups, has not been possible due to data not being available.

DO2: Sensitize and strengthen the institutional capacity of support agencies (government, NGOs and
banks) to proactively address women's needs. Satisfactory. The impact of institutional strengthening is
reflected in the sustainability of the self-help group activities, especially those related to financial aspects
and the effectiveness of the support provided by the intervenors (Women Development Councils, NGOs
and line departments). This is reflected in women's ability to visit banks, their capability to hold meetings
in absence of NGO worker, their level of satisfaction, the functional status of Business Counselling
Centers and on the maturity of the self-help groups. While these indicators reflect the sensitization and
institutional strengthening of the support agencies, they are a function of the self-confidence of the group
members, too.

Women members able to visit banks: By project end, 94%-97% of group members were able to conduct
financial transactions by visiting banks, with the lowest rating being Chhattisgarh with 77%.

Members capable of holding meetings in absence of NGO worker: Between 83% (phase I) and 91%
(phase II and III) of group members were confident in holding meetings without NGO workers present.
The lowest ranking was in Jharkhand with 73% (phase II and III districts).

Business Counselling Centers: Establishment of Business Counseling centers at block level was one of
the major interventions, taken up during the third year of the project. The target set for number of project
blocks possessing Business Counselling Centers has been met 100%, again with huge variations among
states. Further, among the self-help groups, 15% accessed services from the Business Counseling
Centers regularly. Alternative modes of financing (rent and fees) of the Business Counselling Centres
are being developed to ensure sustainability of the BCC after project closure, in terms of BBC being
handed over to clusters or charging for services. More than 80% of the Business Counselling Centers
were established during 2003/04, which was too late for the Business Counselling Centers to prove their
viability before project closure.

Group Members' satisfaction level regarding nurturing: Group members' satisfaction with the support and
nurturing received from NGOs and banks as well as the guidance received for income-generating
activities (IGA) was rated as average by 52% and good by 37%. 11% groups claimed not to have
received any support. The support from banks was rated as good' by 30%, as average by 53% and 17%
informed that no support had been received. The above ratings indicate an average performance by the



                                                      - 6 -

NGOs with whom the project partnered to support the self-help groups. However, such ratings are not
only indicative of actual performance but also of the respondents' expectations to the particular
institution.

Clusters: While 1,213 cluster as compared to a target of 1244 were formed, only 5% of these have been
able to provide forward and backward linkages to the members (with a variation between 0% and 30%
among states). However, 48% of the clusters are performing inter loaning and 27% are accessing
benefits from other programs. However, there are huge variations among the participating states for
example the number of clusters interloaning raged from 30% in Chhattisgarh to almost 100% in Madhya
Pradesh; quite unrelated to the shorter project participation of the three new states Chhattisgarh,
Jharkhand and Uttaranchal.

The sensitization of government to proactively address women's needs is reflected in the fact that several
state governments have started self-help group programs based on their RWDEP experiences.
Additionally, some of the very weak NGOs from the poor blocks, e.g. in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and
Bihar, where RWDEP was implemented have built up their capability and capacity and are now involved
in implementing many other development projects including World Bank-funded projects.

DO3: Increase incomes of poor women through income generating activities. Satisfactory. The number
of members engaged in income-generating activities have reached 77% of target (for non-farm
activities) and 74% (on-farm activities) by project end. It is however difficult to asses the impact of
project-initiated activities due to the absence of comparable data. Hence, the rating has to be understood
in this context, where considerable uncertainty exist about which level of outcomes are caused by project
interventions and which are a product of general economic improvement in the project areas, as control
groups also have progressed economically.

Targeting: The project has mainly benefited the poor who include landless households (29%), marginal
farmers (43%), and small farmer (22%). The self-help group members have also comprised a high
proportion of disadvantaged groups with 27% Scheduled Castes, 18% Scheduled Tribes, 11%
female-headed households. Participation of larger land owners was insignificant except in Uttar Pradesh
(10%), Karnataka (9%) and Madhya Pradesh (7%).

Improved livelihood. Before the project, around 74% of the households were below the poverty line
(defined by Government of India (2000) as an average of Rs. 327.56 per capita income) whereas at the
time of the Impact Evaluation, 37% of households were below the poverty line. Self-help group members
experience improved livelihood opportunities as reflected in both increased savings and incomes of its
members. In 2000, 62% used to save regularly growing to 80% of women in 2004 with savings ranging
from Rs. 10 to Rs. 100 per month/member. By project end, the total savings generated by the women
was Rs. 258 million with members average savings of Rs. 225. 94% of groups are regularly involved in
inter-loaning and the ratio of savings to group inter-loaning is now at 1:2.5. By project end, gross amount
interloaned was Rs. 615 million and the average loan size per SHG was Rs. 21,973.The target for
consumption vs. production loans was set at 30:70 for end of project, and it has reached an average of
36:64 whereas the mature self-help help groups report only 20% consumption loans. Of the total
interloaning, Rs. 221.40 Million was used for consumption purposes and         nearly Rs. 385 million for
productive purposes. There are no comparable data from control villages.

By project end, 103,246 members were engaged in on-farm IGAs and 60,165 members were engaged in
off-farm activities. The number of individual IGAs generated by the women were 163,411.As a result, the
average annual income per woman engaged in income generating activities/micro-enterprise
development has increased from the baseline of Rs. 4,399 to Rs. 7,013 in real terms (compared to an
increase from Rs. 4,459 to Rs. 5,556 in real terms in control villages), but with huge variations among
the states ranging from around to around Rs. 1,380 in Jharkhand to Rs. 9,500 in Uttaranchal . The
average annual income per household has increased from Rs. 20,833 to Rs. 35,737. The overall
picture appears to be of generally increased household incomes among both project and non-project
villages, and with women in the project households experiencing a limited increase in their average




                                                     - 7 -

share of household income. Variations are seen across states, but within each state, project villages and
control villages display very similar developments, with women managing slightly better in improving
their relative role as income earner in the household. Similarly, project and control villages display
almost identical improvement (5%-7%) in reported equity in food consumption among male and female
household members.

The livelihood sources of the households showed a declining trend for wage work both for the women
and for the household as a whole in project villages and in control villages, too. The activities which
showed declining importance in both project and control villages were share cropping, farm labor,
nonagricultural wage labor and forest based activities. A parallel increase in self-employment was found
in general across project and non-project villages. This situation is reflected in the fact that women are
now able to secure regular wage employment for an average of 9 months per year as compared to 6
months before the project.

The generally improved economic situation of the households is reflected in the increase in average
monthly expenditures from Rs. 1130 at baseline to Rs. 1837 at project end, an increase of 62.6% -
compared to Rs. 989 at baseline in control villages rising to Rs. 1597, an increase 61.5% .The overall
improved economic situation of the households is also reflected in an average of 40% of women having
purchased assets from surplus income, whereas it is 90% in UP and 74% in Karnataka.

DO4: Develop linkages between SHGs and lending institutions to ensure women's access to credit
financing. Highly Satisfactory. By project end, 95% of self-help groups had established sound financial
management practices. The number of self-help groups availing loans directly from financial institutions
rose to 97 percent by project end, as a result of focussed attention. The total amount of loans received
by 12,256 SHGs from Banks was Rs. 345.6 million through the Cash Credit Limit. 1,991 SHGs
mobilized Rs. 32.5 million as Term Loans. A further Rs. 78 million were mobilized from other financial
institutions. The credit mobilization ratio was 1:4 in mature SHGs and 1:2 in young SHGs.

Before the project, around 31% to 46% of households (phase I, II and III districts) reported that they
were availing loans from money lenders. At Impact Evaluation, only 2% of sampled members in both
initial and expanded districts informed that they would turn to money lenders for emergency loans, while
85%-88% received loans from the self-help groups. As a reflection of this, at project start some 32% of
sampled households had loans from private moneylenders while this percentage among members now
has been reduced to 8.5%, and almost 20% of members have settled their old loans from moneylenders
after joining the self-help group. In comparison, the control villages saw a smaller reduction from a
baseline situation of 36% of dependent households to 18.3% - but with a slightly smaller amount of
money borrowed (average loan of Rs. 12 539 as compared to Rs 14 530 in project villages). Again the
variation between states by far exceed the variations between project and control villages.

DO5: Improve access to health care, education and drudgery reduction facilities. Satisfactory. This
component picked up very slowly, partly because the guidelines were not properly understood. It is rather
difficult to asses the actual impact of the project on a range of the reported improvements, since it
covers areas of indirect rather than direct project intervention, with a host of other factors are at play.
Furthermore, part of the reporting also reflect increased awareness among members, e.g. resulting in a
reported higher incidence of more common diseases like cold.

Health care: 85% members state that they now access appropriate health services as compared to 37%
in 2000. Significantly, the number of self-help group members accessing antenatal services has
increased from 53% in 2000 to 85% in 2004.

Education: Literacy level remained constant during the project (30%), while changes occurred in
functional literacy (increased from 2% to 5%) and the number of women able to sign increased from 4%
at baseline to 28% at project end. School enrollment has gone up from 74% at baseline to 93% at project
end. This reflects a general pattern as control villages reflect a parallel growth from 67% at baseline to
90% at project end. At baseline 66% of project households spent on average Rs. 80 per month on



                                                      - 8 -

children's education, which by project end had changed to 89% of households spending on average Rs.
194 per month on children's education. In control villages, 56% of households spent at baseline an
average Rs. 71 per month increasing to 85%, spending an average of Rs. 141 per month at project end.
Hence, both control villages and project villages have seen a substantial growth in household
expenditures on children's education, but the growth is clearly higher in project households (142% as
compared to 99% in control villages) - but the increase is mainly due to generally improved household
economy as percentage of education expenditure to total household expenditure remains largely
constant over time and across project and control households (7%-9%).

Drudgery reduction: 49% of members stated they have benefited from drudgery reduction initiatives. A
total of 1934 assets were created under the project worth Rs. 75.6 million. Nearly Rs. 36.3 million of this
amount was leveraged by the women from other programs. The percentage of project households using
biogas or LPG increased from 3.75% at baseline to 12.8% at project end. For control villages the
increase was from 1% at baseline to 5.85% at project end.

Interacting with government institutions: The improved access to services is a result of group members
having become more vocal and interacting with relevant institutions and agencies to forward their claims:
34% of self-help groups interact with the Panchayati Raj Institutions and 28% with the Block offices to
access services and information from line departments, 20% have received benefits from other
programs, 9% are office bearers in the Panchayati Raj Institutions as compared to a baseline of 0.7%.
The variation between states is significant, partly due to the difference in duration of program.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The overall rating is Satisfactory based on the following assessments for the components:

4.2.1 Capacity Building for Women's Development. Satisfactory. The project has successfully
established 17,647 self-help groups as against the target of 7,400 covering around 244 000 women from
57 districts in nine states. All the self-help groups have received basic training in constituent concepts of
self-help group formation, book keeping etc. About 95 percent of all groups have now been formed into
clusters and Karnataka and Bihar have created federation and cluster associations. A total of 1,224
clusters have been formed. 617 of these clusters have been registered as against the target of 492. Over
45 percent of the clusters have a bank account and about 34 percent are inter - loaning. Close to 50
percent are channelizing benefits from other programs and about 255 are providing forward and
backward linkages to members. About 50 cluster associations/federations have been formed, of which
about 45 have been registered under the appropriate legal provision in each state. 301 Business
Counseling Centers have been established and 197 of these have been provided with training. While
some of the states have been able to establish Business Counseling Centers as independent entities, in
others it appears that the roles of these and of clusters are overlapping. Hence, there is a need to
distinguish between the skills, values, practices, statutory norms, accounting policies and day-to-day
management imperatives for social and business activities.

4.2.2. Women Managed Income Generating Activities. Satisfactory. A total of 93 055 members (72% of
original target) have received training in usable skills which is around 38% of actual self-help group
members, but with a huge inter-state variation from 19% in Jharkhand, 23% in Haryana to 59% in
Karnataka. States like Bihar (51%), Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh (56%) are doing well, while
Jharkhand, Gujarat (31%), Haryana, Chhattisgarh (31%), Uttaranchal (27%) and Uttar Pradesh (35%) are
performing poorly in this respect. Some 36%-38% of members trained in income-generating activities
initiated such activities after the training. While the coverage of skills-based training is fairly good, this
component seems to have suffered from the lack of linkage between skills training and support and
guidance in how to prepare, plan and implement income-generating activities. Linkage to market and
marketing surveys have also been missing. The overwhelming risk is to train the self-help group
members in skills, which they are not able to use or that they initiate income-generating activities without
proper assessment of the economic soundness of an enterprise. This will be counter-productive and
constitute both an economic and motivational risk for the involved women. A reflection of this lack of
linkage is i.a. the comparative low increase of income generated from these activities.



                                                       - 9 -

A total of 136,074 women are involved in Micro Enterprise Development of which 85,779 are on-farm
and 50,295 are off-farm activities. Business development plans have been prepared for 17% of the
groups, and Business Counselling Centers have been established in 192 Blocks out of 335.
4.2.3 Community Assets Creation and Access to Social Programs. Satisfactory. A total of 14 743
self-help groups (around 80% of actual number of self-help groups) have channelized benefits from
various programs namely literacy, sanitation, health , forestry and so forth. The number of self-help
groups which have channelized benefits from other programs have reached 78% of the target - with
Haryana being the weakest performer reaching only 47% of target. 1 093 self-help groups (less than
20%) have benefited from community asset creation, which has helped women to meet some of their
basic needs and create some sense of ownership in the community. Assets such as bathrooms, meeting
halls, hand pumps, drains, soak pits and check dams have been created. 15% of groups have adopted
drudgery reduction measures.

4.2.4 Project Management System. Unsatisfactory.The Project has suffered from weak management
throughout the project duration, such as problems of recruitment of staff at state level, frequent turn-over
of staff and delays in filling key post at state level, delays in getting clearances, lack of coordination with
the Lead Training Agency and poor understanding by the Lead Training Agency of its role. Bureaucratic
procedures further slowed down progress, e.g. that all files have to be passed through the Department of
Women and Child Development's Finance Department.The bifurcation of the states furthermore added
the challenge of building capacity in the new states to implement the program, which have resulted in
differing degrees of success. The financial management performance also remained weak throughout
the life of project - partly on account of the inability of the CPSU and the States to appoint and retain
qualified accounting staff, which also caused less than optimal use of the computerized project financial
management system developed at the start of the project. Financial reporting remained weak and while
audit reports continued to highlight weaknesses in the accounting and internal control functions,
inadequate follow-up actions taken by the implementing units meant that corrective actions were not
taken in a meaningful manner or on a timely basis.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable. Given the multifaceted nature of the project, many of the benefits are not readily
quantifiable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1    The project has been instrumental in introducing moderately substantial changes with regard to
the user communities, planning and implementation processes and public institutions as well as
introducing key policy changes. Formation of women's self-help groups has contributed strongly to the
expansion of economic roles for women, strengthened their decision making role in the household and
local community, and led to diversification of income sources along with a reduction in their dependency
on informal sources of credit. Experience with RWDEP has triggered changes in the National Women's
Empowerment Program currently being implemented across all 25 states, which the DWCD and
Government of India intends to redesign on the RWDEP model and the Government of India has
requested World Bank support in this. States like Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu are implementing and
to some extent Bihar is designing livelihood programs with women's empowerment as the foundation.
However, the project states, other states and the Government of India need to not only support groups
formed under the project but substantially scale-up the model to reflect institutional development impact.

4.5.2    An assessment of the maturity of sampled groups indicates that 10 percent of the groups are
highly mature, while another 70% of the groups are mature enough to sustain themselves after
project-end. Only 20% of the groups need further support. About 97% of all groups have been formed
into clusters, and in some states federations and cluster associations have been established. Clusters are
providing support to the self-help groups by facilitating credit linkages, financial intermediation, social



                                                       - 10 -

intermediation, technical support and so forth. Seven states, excluding Gujarat and Chhattisgarh, have
decided to provide an additional two years support to the clusters to ensure more effective performance.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
 (i) Considerable variation across participating states in prevailing socio-cultural situation, women's status,
levels of poverty and rallying points for mobilization. These differences have during the project required
increased flexibility of project planning to respond to the needs of the individual states i.e. Gujarat and
Karnataka wanted to start with economic activities three months after SHGs formed, Haryana wanted
inputs on social empowerment, while Bihar and Madhya Pradesh were keen on investing in group
formation and internal lending for meeting critical needs of members. The project therefore had to move
away quickly from a uniform design and sequence of activities and bring expertise on emergent needs.

(ii) Shortage of credible local NGOs. The shortage of credible NGOs delayed implementation in certain
areas. However, the projects strategy of identifying and building capacity of smaller committed NGOs
resulted in effective implementation. A number of these NGOs are now involved in the implementation
of many Bank-funded projects across different project states.

(iii) Frequent turn-over of bank officials led to dissipation of project investments in sensitizing Bankers
towards the needs of the poor, which delayed achievement of project goals.

(iv) Lack of technical and institutional expertise and capacity to respond to project needs. In a number of
states, the quality of expertise available was poor which impacted the progress of the project. Poor
network of Banking system, absence of capacity building institutes, credible M&E agencies, active
private sector, all impacted the pace of the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
(i) Delays from the beginning.The Board approval took place in March 27, 1997, but the Government of
India did not get the final Cabinet approval to sign the project agreement until September 14, 1998. This
was followed by delays in meeting conditions of effectiveness,the main point of which was signing of a
contract with an independent agency for Monitoring and Evaluation. The date of effectiveness was
extended twice, until the project finally was declared Effective on April 26, 1999. While the project should
have been launched in 1997, it only became operational in 1999 due to delays in appointment of staff in
SPMUs and particularly in DPIUs.

(ii) Establishment and inclusion of the three new states of Jharkhand, Uttaranchal and Chhattisgarh
halfway through the project necessitated an amendment of the project legal documents whereby the new
states were included as separate legal entities under the project with their own legal, administrative,
implementation, cost and accounting structures. Limited institutional capacity and lack of specialist
resource agencies further hampered project implementation.

 (iii) Insufficient delegation of authority to state level implementing agencies (WDCs) and unclear division
of roles and responsibilities among different project partners slowed down project implementation in the
beginning. The In-depth Evaluation of Swa-Shakti Project (Sep. 2005) conducted by International
Institute of Development and Management Technology for the Department of Women & Child
Development pointed out that the Central Project Support Unit (CPSU) did not become a fully
autonomous unit under the Ministry of Women & Child Development, and neither was it conceived as an
independent registered society nor was it part of the National Institute of Public Corporation and Child
Development. The report sums up that the "....concept of institution development remained elusive and
strategically missing at every level. ."

(iv)) Absence of staff. Project management has been unsatisfactory during most of the project, notably
due to absence of staff in management and coordinating positions in several states and at the Central
Support Unit, which jeopardized the overall achievements of the project. The absence of staff also



                                                        - 11 -

caused insufficient monitoring of performance resulting in activities like training, inter-organizational
dealings being less productive than would otherwise have been the case.

(v) Uncompetitive salary structure. The government salary structure inhibited the recruitment of
sufficiently qualified staff.

(vi) State level WDCs. The state Women Development Corporations functioned poorly from the
beginning and the plans for restructuring and professionalizing them met with limited success.

(vi) Hurdles in releasing funds from Government of India to the states and from the states to the NGOs
were also affecting implementation.




5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
(i) Lack of mutual understanding and trust between DPIU and NGOs was reported from several districts,
impairing the concept of partnership which was an essential ingredient in the project.

(ii) Delays in implementation of drudgery related activities, which involved more than one organization
and the procedures were considered cumbersome,affecting the project performance and outcome.

(iii) Frequent turn-over of staff including lack of stability in leadership, affected project momentum .

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project costs at appraisal was estimated at SDR 13.5 million of IDA credit later revised to SDR
8.427 million and SDR 13.3 mill of IFAD loan, later revised to SDR 8 mill. Disbursement has been
79.58% of the revised principal, thus leading to a saving of IDA credit of SDR 1.7 million. Savings out of
the IFAD loan are at SDR 1.531 million. The total project cost at closure were SDR 12.9 million .

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall rating for the probability of maintaining project achievements is Likely, based on the
following considerations:

(1)      About 85% of the self-help groups are self-sustainable as they are able to conduct regular
meetings and manage savings, repayment and interloaning. The far majority of self-help groups (80%)
are federated into clusters parallel with a gradual phasing out of NGO support, as the clusters will assist
the self-help groups in credit linkages, financial intermediation, linkage to government line departments
and technical support for livelihood and retailing.

(2)      The widespread appreciation of the project's benefits by women, rural communities, the
Department of Women and Child Development has created a commitment to sustaining project
achievements. This is reflected in the fact that all states, with the exception of Gujarat and Chhattisgarh,
have decided to provide an additional one year of support to the self-help group clusters in order to
ensure their effective performance, and the Department of Women and Child Development, Government
of India is following up with all states on these arrangements. The commitment to the self-help group
model is also reflected in the Government of India's request to the World Bank for support for a National
Women's Empowerment Program based on the Project promoted Women's Self Help Group model.

(3)      The emphasis of the Income Generating Activities/Micro-Enterprise Development component of
the project has been on developing capacity in grassroots institutions through training and support,
reducing a large number of women's dependency on labor as their main source of income. The IGA/MED
has resulted in the establishment of several enterprises, formation of partnerships with partners ranging
from unorganized, local private sector to organized private sector, specialized NGOs, banks and



                                                     - 12 -

government departments.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Following the closure of the Loan/Credit, Government of India is following up with all states to arrange for
an additional two years of support to the clusters in order to ensure their effective performance.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Moderately Satisfactory. The Bank provided valuable assistance to the borrower and the implementing
agency through frequent and detailed consultations during the duration of the project. Apart from
ensuring that the project was consistent with national and state priorities and the Bank CAS, the dialogue
also resulted in relevant lessons from other Bank and IFAD funded projects being incorporated into the
design. However, greater emphasis could have been paid to issues related flexibility in design to
accommodate considerable variation among project states, better assessment of Borrower ownership
and institutional capacity issues, which did prove to be bottlenecks in project implementation.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Bank supervision played a key role in assisting the borrower and implementing agency,
and guiding the project in various stages of implementation. The project had a slow start with
disbursement well below target. Supervision of a six-state and then a nine-state project was a challenge
for the Bank's Task Team. Some of the crucial factors that determined the pace of implementation in the
different states were: (i) presence of qualified staff; (ii) institutional capacity of the Women's
Development Corporations to implement the project; (iii) availability of quality NGOs and other partner
organizations - capacity building, communication development, agriculture universities; (iv) the banking
sector network and the sensitivity of the Bankers to the Micro finance needs of poor women; and (iv) the
development of the market and the private sector entrepreneurs.

Despite a slow start to the project, Bank supervision teams worked closely and intensively with the State
Project Management Units to eventually implement the project very successfully. The supervision
brought to the project: (i) visit to all the state program in a year covering at least 50% of the project
districts to encourage states and also provide requisite on-site assistance and advise; (ii) bring in critical
technical inputs to meet emergent needs; (iii) proactive resolution of problems between the centre and
the state units during missions and otherwise and by participating in the monthly Project Directors
meetings ; (iv) development of the Monitoring and Evaluation framework by bringing in technical
expertise to work with the project staff and the external Monitoring and Evaluation agency; (v)
encouraging greater flexibility in implementation thus enabling different states to capitalize on their
strengths and innovate; (vi) creating, nurturing and supporting platforms for inter-state learning and
sharing through a two-day meeting during every mission with all states and central unit on key project
interventions of mobilization strategies, group processes, income generation activities, bank linkages,
communication strategies, interaction and convergence with line-departments, etc.; and (vii) concerted
effort to share project strategy, products and outputs with other similar efforts at national and individual
state-levels to enhance the spread of the project model. This continuous exchange of experiences and
lessons-learned enabled the project to end up with a majority of states performing "extremely well" and
others doing "well".

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. Setting aside the procedural delays that led to delayed effectiveness, the overall
performance of the Borrower during preparation was satisfactory. The project was based on the positive
experiences regarding women's empowerment and the proposal was formulated in consultation with the



                                                       - 13 -

project states, implementing agencies, NGOs and, Department of Economic Affairs and IFAD/IDA.
Before the actual launching of the project, some pre-project activities were undertaken in different areas,
including engagement of some technical and support people, survey of the area, identification of
prospective beneficiaries and so forth.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Unsatisfactory. Project has faced problems in recruitment of staff and frequent staff turn-over
throughout the project, and Project Management was rated as Unsatisfactory in the early stages of the
project. The absence of staff in management and coordinating positions in several states and at the
Central Support Unit hampered the overall achievements of the project. There was initially insufficient
delegation of authority to state level implementing agencies and unclear division of roles and
responsibilities among different project partners. Financial management performance remained weak
throughout the project with weak financial reporting, internal control functions and inadequate corrective
actions taken.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. In the initial stages, the project was lagging behind in implementation, but gradually built
up both in terms of competence and commitment. During the one year extension period, the milestones
were exceeded by all states.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory

8. Lessons Learned


The greatest strength of the project has been in mobilizing poor rural women, facilitating their
organization in self-help groups, providing a range of training and exposures which altogether has had
tremendous impact in terms of creating self-confidence, awareness of a range of social and gender
related issues among the participating women, greatly increasing their mobility and capability to initiate
action both jointly and vis-à-vis local institutions in order to improve their living conditions.

Behind this overall achievement, there are a number of lessons learned:

Institutional

    Long-term commitment at the Central and state levels ensure the long-term sustainability of
    project outcomes and impacts. The commitment at both the levels needs to be reflected in
    maintaining a well-staffed project management unit, stable leadership, timely flow of funds and
    prevent/ limit frequent change in management and turn-over of staff.

    In a multi-state project, clearly defined functions and responsibilities of the Central Hub and
    the individual states are necessary for successful implementation. The value of clearly defining
    roles, proper delegation of authority and building in adequate autonomy is critical. The Central Hub
    provides handholding support to states with lower capacities to catch up but then move into
    facilitating mode when the threshold capacities have been achieved. The Hub also has an important
    responsibility in setting up the Monitoring and Evaluation systems, facilitate regular monitoring of
    progress and sharing of both successful and failed experiences and competencies across states.

    Mapping and assessing the expertise and capacities of partner organizations for
    implementing/supporting different project objectives is critical. Identifying and building the
    capacity of NGOs for project implementation in especially poorer and remote areas where NGO
    presence is almost absent, is important. The value of co-opting multiple stakeholders through project
    preparation and implementation is critical for not only better implementation of project components
    but also for helping community organizations build long-term relationships beyond project life. The



                                                      - 14 -

  learning from the project was that while NGOs were competent in community mobilization and
  institutional development they were not able to support income generation activities. On the other
  hand unorganized, local private sector actors proved to be good partners and resource persons for
  economic activities, but were neither concerned nor had the capacity for social mobilization.
  Organized private sector partners likewise were useful in linking rural communities to external
  markets, processes and technologies. Certain specialized NGOs provided useful training and
  capacity building inputs. In several cases, sensitive or sensitized bankers and government officials
  provided valuable inputs and support.

  To assist poor move out of poverty it is critical to sensitize various government line
  departments to the needs of the poor and to SHGs and Clusters as platforms of the poor.
  Projects make critical investments in mobilizing and capacity building of the poor, however,
  investments to meet their needs for basic services and facilities should be leveraged from existing
  projects and schemes, which are already meant for the poor. The SHG platform along with sensitive
  public service provision is essential for poverty reduction.

  Under the project, SHGs of the poor and their Clusters have emerged as important platform
  for various public sector providers and private sector entrepreneurs to both deliver services
  and seek partnerships. Facilitating this convergence has been critical for the improvements in the
  quality of life and increase in chances of the poor coming out of poverty. The factors which were
  instrumental in promoting convergence for channeling benefits from other development programs to
  the self-help group members was a comprehensive and systematic approach incorporating: (i) proper
  orientation of field functionaries; (ii) sensitization of line departments; (iii) active involvement of
  clusters; (iv) orientation of the counselors at the Business Counseling Centers; and (v) participation
  of District Project Managers of the Women Development Corporations in the district-level review
  meetings for updating knowledge of the ongoing development programs in the district and to advise
  partner NGOs to initiate action to channel benefits.

Operational

  Providing women the capacity and opportunity to overcome social barriers at household and
  community level, and share their concerns and aspirations, is a powerful entry point for
  social mobilization. Using this concept of social empowerment as point of entry in group formation
  has been an important vehicle for the self-help group approach. Access to information, knowledge
  and awareness of their legal rights, of the programs and benefits they can avail, as well as of the
  responsibility of various service providers, have had remarkable impact on the status and position of
  women. Increased physical mobility and ability to act in the public domain has enabled women to
  demand for better services, approach line departments and the PRIs to benefit from programs and
  schemes, influence the functioning of the school and health facilities in their villages, link up with
  Banks to get loans, and enter the market and set-up transactions.

  Due recognition and importance to basic group processes - both social (dealing with violence,
  discrimination) and business (records maintenance, decision making, financial discipline); are critical
  for not only strengthening the foundation but also enabling SHGs to access facilities like credit from
  other institutions.

  Financial management capacity and financial discipline through Internal lending in self-help
  groups without dependence on subsidized credit, is critical for SHGs to link with banks,
  access credit and maintain good repayment rates. Under the project, this approach has resulted
  in a gradual but more sustainable outcome, where the consolidation of self-help groups and the
  federating into clusters have proven itself as a viable exit-strategy, eliminating dependence on NGO
  facilitation.

  The need to support awareness raising and skills training among women with support in
  marketing and business development. While capacity building and improved access to market



                                                     - 15 -

    information lead to diversification of household livelihood strategies and improved risk
    management, increased and more professional support and guidance in terms of market analysis,
    marketing and business development is required to ensure more comprehensive economic impact at
    household level.

    Facilitating the emergence of Support Organizations during project implementation. The
    development of local institutional support `nodes' is very critical so that the poor can benefit from
    these for inputs like social issues, communication, logistics (for example, collective procurement,
    distribution, storage), information flow, and accumulation of capacities on various livelihoods, beyond
    the project period. Assistance to critical Support Organizations to emerge and stabilize in order that
    the poor could get continuous support - even on a payment basis, beyond the project period would
    be necessary to sustain social, political and economic empowerment.

    Simplicity of Pilot Projects. Pilot projects should not be very ambitious in their scope and should
    be designed to be focussed and targeted without compromising on their basic principles of targeting
    in poor and remote areas and working with marginalized sections.

Monitoring and Evaluation

    Robust monitoring and evaluation systems that provide critical information on the process
    and outputs and outcomes are the basics for any project to learn as it is implemented. The
    setting up of proper baselines preferably during preparation or not later than six months after
    effectiveness, and undertaking meaningful Mid Term and End line Assessments offer a wealth of
    information for all stakeholders in a project but also to practitioners in general.

    In addition to a Project Implementation Team, a dedicated cell within the Nodal agency
    vested with the responsibility of undertaking cutting edge research and analysis, respond to
    emergent issues during implementation, provide quality control support and also facilitate
    greater internal learning for the Nodal agency is necessary. A major reason for the successful
    performance of the project vis-à-vis the Governments' own program was a dedicated project
    implementation team. A dedicated cell within the Nodal agency would have facilitated quality and
    internal learning. A clear learning is that this does not happen otherwise by itself and needs to be
    designed.

In conclusion, based on the lessons it is clear that replication beyond project area by the Centre
and the State Governments is very critical for scaling up of the model to benefit a much larger
needy population. The project model was replicated by the National Government through the
"Swayamsiddha" program with a much wider reach beyond the project states and districts. Further
individual states have replicated the model with their own funds beyond project districts. This is a
reflection of both the success of the project model but also the commitment of the National and state
governments involved.



9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The "Borrower's Evaluation Report"is provided as an attachment. Borrower's comments are generally in
    line with the Bank's assessment of the project as given in
this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:
IFAD, the co-financiers for the project, have conveyed their agreement with Bank's assessment of the
project and have no major objections to the assessment.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



                                                      - 16 -

Not available

10. Additional Information




                              - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




                                        - 18 -

Key Objectives             Output                                          Outcome
                           Indicator                      Value            Indicator                Value
(i) Establishment of
Women Self Help            (i) Number of Self Help        17,647           (i) Groups with Regular  80%
Groups to build            groups formed                                   Meetings
member's self ­reliance    (ii) Average membership        14               (ii) Average attendance  80%
and Self Confidence        per SHG                                         (iii) Volume of savings  Rs. 258 Million
                           (iii) Total membership         240,000          (iv) Average individual  Rs. 225
                           (iv) Number of Clusters        1,213            saving
                           formed                                          (v) Gross amount inter-  Rs. 615 Million
                                                                           loaned
                                                                           (vi) Average value of    Rs. 21,973
                                                                           Bank Loans
                                                                           (vii) Repayment rates    99%
                                                                           (viii) Confidence of     91%
                                                                           holding meetings
                                                                           without assistance
                                                                           (ix) Confidence of       97%
                                                                           undertaking financial
                                                                           transactions by
                                                                           themselves (avg)
                                                                           (x) Groups with          9%
                                                                           members elected to
                                                                           Panchayats

(ii) Sensitizing and       (i) Number of sensitization    674              (i) Number of groups     14,404
Strengthening the          program undertaken                              linked with government
institutional capacity of                                                  programs during the
support agencies in                                                        project
government, NGOs and                                                       (ii) Number of groups
Banks                                                                      linked with NGO          5,278
                                                                           programs during the
                                                                           project
                                                                           (iii) Number of SHGs     16,764
                                                                           with Sound Financial
                                                                           Practices
(iii) Increasing incomes   (i) Number of Business         333              (i) Proportion of loans  66: 34
of poor women through      Counseling Centres                              used for IGA versus
income generating          established                                     Consumption purposes
activities                 (ii) Number of Business        335              (ii) Increases in income Rs. 8, 766
                           Counselors trained                              from IGA ­ annual        (nominal)
                           (iii) Number of members        97,422           average                  Rs. 7013 (real)
                           received usable skills                          (iii) percentage of
                                                                           members with access to   90%
                                                                           and control over
                                                                           domestic resources
(iv) Developing linkages
between slef help groups   (i) Number of SHGs linked      12,256           (i) Credit Mobilization  1:4 mature
and lending institutions   with Banks for CCL                              ratio                    SHGs and 1:2
to ensure women's          (ii) Amount of loan            Rs. 345.6                                 young SHGs
access to credit financing mobilized through CCL          Million
                           (iii) Number of SHGs linked                     (ii) Number of           103,246
                           with Banks for Term Loans      1,991            members engaged in       members
                           (iv) Amount of loan                             on-farm IGAs
                           mobilized though Term          Rs. 32.5 Million (iii) Number of
                           Loans                                           members engaged in       60,165 members



                                                     - 19 -

- 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Institional Capacity Building for Women's Development        3.40             3.82           112.4
Establish Support Mechanisms for Women Managed               8.98             3.05              34
Income Generating Activities
Establish Mechanisms to Access Social Programs and           2.49             0.84            33.7
Leverage Funds for Community Assets' Creation
Provide Effective Project Management System                  3.54             1.65            46.6

Total Baseline Cost                                         18.41             9.36
                          Total Project Costs               18.41             9.36
                   Total Financing Required                 18.41             9.36


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            0.00         5.79          0.00         5.79
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (5.51)          (0.00)       (5.51)
2. Goods                            0.00            2.51         5.90          0.00         8.41
                                   (0.00)          (2.32)      (5.67)          (0.00)       (7.99)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00        22.78          1.12         23.90
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (22.78)         (0.00)      (22.78)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00        27.33          0.21         27.54
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (4.46)          (0.00)       (4.46)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            0.00            2.51        61.80          1.33         65.64
                                   (0.00)          (2.32)      (38.42)         (0.00)      (40.74)
Total for IDA, GOI and COF

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           0.00         1.92           0.00        1.92
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.38)         (0.00)       (0.38)
2. Goods                            0.00           0.14         1.32           0.00        1.46
                                   (0.00)         (0.07)       (0.63)         (0.00)       (0.70)
3. Services                         0.00           4.31         8.90           0.00        13.21
                                   (0.00)         (2.02)       (5.00)         (0.00)       (7.02)



                                                - 21 -

   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              6.34             0.00              6.34
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.28)            (0.00)           (1.28)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.22             0.00              0.22
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.22)            (0.00)           (0.22)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               4.45             18.70             0.00             23.15
                                           (0.00)             (2.09)            (7.51)            (0.00)           (9.60)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Institional Capacity            3.40         0.21         3.25        3.82         0.33       3.30       112.4    157.1    101.5
Building for Women's
Development
Establish Support               8.98                      8.44        3.05                    2.45       34.0               29.0
Mechanisms for Women
Managed Income
Generating Activities
Establish Mechanisms to         2.49         0.26         2.38        0.84         0.23       1.25       33.7      88.5     52.5
Access Social Programs
and Leverage Funds for
Community Assets'
Creation
Provide Effective Project       3.54         3.19         3.24        1.65         3.28       1.48       46.6     102.8     45.7
Management System
Total                          18.41         3.66        17.31        9.36         3.84       8.21       50.8     104.9     47.4
Surrendered                     7.33                      7.66                                            0.0                0.0
Disbursement against           12.50         3.66        11.34        9.36         3.84       8.21       74.9     104.9     72.4
revised project costs




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not analyzed.




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/13/1996                9    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),
                                             SOCIAL DEVELOPEMNT (2),
                                             PROCUREMENT (1),
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1),
                                             ECONOMIST (1), POVERTY
                                             AND SOCIAL POLICY (1),
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1), LOGISTICS (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/24/1996              12     TASK TEAM LEADER (1),
                                             SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                                             (2), PROCUREMENT (1),
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1),
                                             EDUCATION (2), HEALTH
                                             (1), ECONOMIST (1)
                                             POVERTY AND SOCIAL
                                             POLICY (1), FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1),
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
              11/30/1996                8    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),
                                             LAWYER (2), SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (2), HEALTH
                                             (1), POVERTY AND SOCIAL
                                             POLICY (1), FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)
              07/22/996                 4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),
                                             SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT (1),
                                             ECONOMIST (1),
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1)

 Supervision
              01/31/1999                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            U               U
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             LAWYER (1)
              10/30/1999                7    MISSION LEADER (1),              S               U
                                             SOCIAL (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MGMT (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             (1); PARTICIAPTORY
                                             PROCESS (1) TRAINING (1);
                                             LOGISTICS (1)
              02/25/2000                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                             PARTICIAPTORY PROCESS
                                             (1); NGO SPECIALIST (1);
                                             TRAINING (1)




                                              - 24 -

06/24/2000    7 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT (1);
                PARTICIAPTORY PROCESS
                (1); NGO SPECIALIST (1);
                M&E SPECIALIST (1);
                TRAINING (1)
03/19/2001    7 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                GENDER (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                DEVP. (1); NGO SPECIALIST
                (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                (1); M&E SPECIALIST (1);
                MICROENTERPISE DEVP (1)
                TRAINING (1)
12/05/2001    7 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                GENDER (1); HEALTH (1);
                EDUCATION (1); FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT (1); M&E
                SPECIALIST (1);
                MICROENTERPISE DEVP (1)
                TRAINING (1)
06/06/2002    3 TASK TEAM LEADER (I);        S    S
                GENDER (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                DEVP. (1);
01/30/2003    8 TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                GENDER (1); INSITUTIONAL
                DEVELOPMENT (1); M & E
                (1); MICRO-ENTERPRISE (1);
                PROCUREMENT (1);
                FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                (1); LAWYER (1)
06/19/2003    5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT (1);
                ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT (1);
                LOGISTICS (1)
12/10/2003    8 TASK TEAM LEADER AND         S    S
                GENDER (1); INSITUTIONAL
                DEVELOPMENT (1);
                ECONOMIST (1); M & E (1);
                MICRO-ENTERPRISE (1);
                PROCUREMENT (1);
                FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                (1); LOGISTICS (1)
05/28/2004    8 TASK TEAM LEADER AND
                GENDER (1); INSITUTIONAL
                DEVELOPMENT (1); M & E
                SPECIALIST (1);
                MICRO-ENTERPRISE (1);
                PROCUREMENT (1);
                FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                (1); LOGISTICS (1); ICR
                PRINCIPAL AUTHOR (1)



                - 25 -

               01/11/2005              8   TASK TEAM LEADER AND               S    S
                                           GENDER (1); INSITUTIONAL
                                           DEVELOPMENT (1); M & E
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           MICRO-ENTERPRISE (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT (1);
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1); LOGISTICS (1); ICR
                                           PRINCIPAL AUTHOR (1)

 ICR
               22/06/2005             8     TASK TEAM LEADER                  S    S
                                            AND GENDER (1);
                                            INSITUTIONAL
                                            DEVELOPMENT (1); M &
                                            E SPECIALIST (1);
                                            MICRO-ENTERPRISE (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT (1);
                                            LOGISTICS (1); ICR
                                            PRINCIPAL AUTHOR (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           81.00                        150.60
  Appraisal/Negotiation                71.90                        141.00
  Supervision                        129.61                         522.49
  ICR                                  13.37                         43.38
  Total                              295.88                         857.47




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Partnership with NGOs and private sector




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report. Rural Women's Development and Empowerment Project. World Bank 1997

Aide Memoire. Supervision Mission. World Bank, October 1999.

Aide Memoire. Supervision Mission. World Bank, February 2000

Aide Memoire. Supervision Mission. World Bank, June 2000

Aide Memoire. Supervision Mission. World Bank, October 2000

Mid Term Review , World Bank, March 2001

Aide Memoire. Supervision Mission. World Bank, December 2001

Aide Memoire. Supervision Mission. World Bank, May-June 2002

Aide Memoire. Supervision Mission. World Bank, January 2003

Aide Memoire. Supervision Mission. World Bank, June 2003

Aide Memoire. Supervision Mission. World Bank, December 2003

Aide Memoire. Supervision Mission. World Bank, May 2004

Aide Memoire. Supervision Mission. World Bank, January 2005

Aide Memoire. Final Supervision Mission. World Bank, June 2005

Diagnostic and Evaluative Study of the Women Development Corporations. Institute of Applied
Manpower Research, New Delhi, 2001

Implementation Completion Reports. (Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka,
Madhya Pradesh, Uttaranchal, Uttar Pradesh ), June 2005

Swa-Shakti. Impact Evaluation Report. Lead M & E Agency, Agricultural Finance Corporation Limited,
New Delhi, June 2005.

Final Report. In-depth Evaluation of Swa-Shakti Project. International Institute of Development
Management Technology, New Delhi, September 2005

Borrower's Evaluation Report - Final. Ministry of Human Resource Development, October 2005

Communication from IFAD, February 2006




                                                  - 29 -

- 30 -

