Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2942 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Women’s Development and Empowerment Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 14, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 2942 IN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1998, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has agreed to 
make a loan (the IFAD Loan) to the Borrower in an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights\0b(SDR 
13,300,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement dated March 27, 1997 between the Borrower and IFAD (the IFAD Loan 
Agreement); 
(C)
the Project will be carried out by the Borrower and the States of Bihar, 
Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh (the Project States) 
with the assistance of Women’s Development Corporations and the assistance of the 
Borrower and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the 
Project States the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
Page  2
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and the Project States;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount 
of the Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Bihar” means the Borrower’s state of Bihar, or any successor thereto;
(b)
“Gujarat” means the Borrower’s state of Gujarat, or any successor 
thereto;
(c)
“Haryana” means the Borrower’s state of Haryana, or any successor 
thereto;
(d)
“Karnataka” means the Borrower’s state of Karnataka, or any successor 
Page  3
thereto;
(e)
“Madhya Pradesh” means the Borrower’s state of Madhya Pradesh, or any 
successor thereto;
(f)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization established and operating in 
the territory of the Borrower;
(g)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Association of the one part and the Project States (as hereinafter defined) of the 
other part, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(h)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
August 20, 1996, and September 12, 1996, between the Borrower and the Association;
(i)
“Project States” means Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh 
and Uttar Pradesh and “Project State” means each such State;
(j)
“SHG” means a women’s self-help group, which is established and managed 
through a participatory approach, to, inter alia, raise awareness, build confidence, 
and promote economic empowerment and self-reliance;
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(l)
“State” means state of the Borrower;
(m)
“Uttar Pradesh” means the Borrower’s state of Uttar Pradesh, or any 
successor thereto; and
(n)
“WDC” means a Women’s Development Corporation that is registered under 
the Indian Companies Act of 1956, with the exception of the Women’s Development 
Corporations in Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, which are registered under the Societies 
Registration Act of Bihar and the Non-Trading Corporations Rules and Act of Madhya 
Pradesh respectively.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 13,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
Page  4
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2007, and ending February 1, 2032. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2017, shall 
be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred,  provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
Page  5
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall, within the territory of the Project States: (i) cause the Project States to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the respective 
obligations of the Project States set forth therein, take and cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable the Project States to perform such obligations, and 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance; and (ii) carry out or cause to be carried out in the Project States Parts 
A, B and D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Credit available on a 
grant basis to WDCs under a memorandum of understanding, to be entered into between 
the Borrower and each WDC, satisfactory to the Association.
(c)
Without prejudice to any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall ensure that the WDCs receive Project funds out of the Borrower’s resources on a 
quarterly basis and in a timely manner for anticipated expenditures under their 
approved annual action plans, referred to in paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall, within the territory of the Project States, cause the 
Project to be carried out, and shall carry out Parts A, B and D of the Project, in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the 
Project shall be carried out jointly and severally by the Project States and their 
respective WDCs pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
Page  6
the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any Project State shall have failed to perform any of its respective 
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that a Project State will perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) to this paragraph: (A) the right of 
the Borrower 
to withdraw the proceeds of the IFAD Loan made to the 
Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the IFAD Loan Agreement; or (B) the 
IFAD Loan shall have 
become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity 
thereof; and 
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and the concerned Project State; 
and
Page  7
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by each 
Project State respectively and is legally binding upon each of them in accordance with 
its terms;
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD Loan Agreement 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(c)
a contract, satisfactory to the Association, has been signed between the 
Borrower and a lead organization for the development of a Project monitoring and 
evaluation system; and
(d)
each Project State WDC shall have employed a Project Director, Finance 
Officer and Training Coordinator at the state level and the respective Project State 
WDC shall have employed a District Manager in each of the districts of Panchmahals and 
Sabarkantha in Gujarat, district of Sonepat in Haryana, districts of Kolar and 
Chitradurga in Karnataka, districts of Hoshangabad and Dewas in Madhya Pradesh and 
district of Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Project States, and is legally binding upon 
the Project States in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.04. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or 
Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of 
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
Page  8
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ V. Govindarajan 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim 
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
    % of
(Expressed in
 Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
 
  1,700,000
90%
(2)
Goods (including
  1,900,000
100% of foreign
equipment, furniture,
expenditures, 100%
vehicles, and materials)
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) 
and
80% of local expen-
ditures for other items 
procured locally
(3)
Consultant services,
  7,500,000
100%
NGO services, training,
workshops and study tours
(4)
Incremental costs
  1,500,000
90% through
September 30, 2000;
70% through
Page  9
September 30, 2001; and
40% thereafter
(5)
Refunding of Project
    200,000
Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement 
(6)
Unallocated
    700,000
       ___________
TOTAL
 13,500,000
 ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “incremental costs” means the cost of additional staff employed 
for the purposes of the Project after September 30, 1997, and the cost of operation 
and maintenance of additional vehicles and equipment procured under the Project after 
September 30, 1997. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
700,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2), (3) and (4) on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after September 30, 1997.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a)
goods and works under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent;
(b)
services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment 
of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employment of individual consultants; 
and
(c)
incremental costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Project States in: (a) 
establishing self-reliant women’s SHGs which enable women to gain empowerment and 
improvement of the quality of their lives through greater access to and control over 
resources; (b) sensitizing and strengthening the institutional capacity of support 
agencies (which include the government, NGOs and banks) to proactively address women’s 
needs; (c) increasing income controlled by poor women through involvement of women in 
income generating activities; (d) developing linkages between SHGs and lending 
institutions to ensure women’s continued access to credit for income generating 
activities; and (e) enhancing women’s access to resources for better health and 
education and drudgery reduction. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
 Establishment of Self-Reliant Women’s Groups 
1.
Formation and Strengthening of  SHG
Page  10
(a)
Promotion and establishment of new and self-reliant SHGs with the 
assistance of experienced NGOs and through the replication of mature SHGs.
(b)
Build up the capacity of new and existing SHGs by training members and 
representatives in group dynamics, group management, participatory skills, leadership 
skills and awareness raising. 
2.
Strengthening of Participating Agencies to Support Women’s Development
(a)
Strengthen the institutional capacity and sensitivity to gender issues 
of: (i) WDCs by modifying their organizational structures to streamline operational 
and management systems and providing professional staff and appropriate training; 
(ii) NGOs by providing training to support project activities, including the 
enhancement of NGO business development and promotion skills; and (iii) line agencies 
by providing training in the SHG concept, participatory management and communications 
skills.
(b)
Strengthen the institutional capacity and sensitivity to gender issues of  
financial institutions by providing training in the SHG concept, responsiveness to 
credit needs, participatory management and communication skills.
Part B:  
Establishment of Support Mechanisms for Women-Managed Income Generating 
Activities 
1.
Mobilization of Investment Funds for Income Generating Activities
(a)
Development of SHGs’ expertise in credit management by: (i) organizing 
meetings to promote the generation of funds from SHG members’ savings; (ii) providing 
small loans to SHG members; and (iii) training SHGs in credit management and accounts 
to enable them to establish their own credit rating. 
(b)
Build up linkages between SHGs and financial institutions to assess lines 
of credit for SHGs. 
2.
Provision of Business Management and Technical Support Services to SHG Members
(a)
Improve on-farm activities undertaken by SHGs by facilitating: (i) access 
to technology to improve crop and animal productivity; (ii) diversification into 
higher financial return activities, such as cultivation of herbs, spices, fruits, 
flowers and vegetables; and (iii) access to market processes, such as storage, grading 
and packing.
(b)
Enhance non-farm activities undertaken by SHGs, which are related to 
production, trading and service, by: (i) conducting market studies and techno-economic 
surveys at the village level; (ii) upgrading designs and production skills; 
(iii) standardizing production techniques; (iv) improving quality control; and 
(v) promoting market linkages.
Part C:
Establishment of Mechanisms to Access Social Programs and Leverage Funds 
for 
Community Assets Creation
1.
Access to Social Programs
(a)
Enhance access to social programs by training SHG members to: 
(i) disseminate information on health-related issues; (ii) promote preventive health 
care; (iii) assist SHG members to access formal health systems; and (iv) provide basic 
health care.
(b)
Increase the availability of child care services by promoting the 
expansion of existing child care programs and providing initial financial assistance 
for established SHGs to provide child care services. 
2.
Assistance to Leverage Funds for Community Asset Creation
Support the creation of community assets, such as drinking water and sanitation 
facilities and multipurpose halls, by SHGs and the community through the provision of 
Page  11
partial funding for such asset creation and facilitation of resource leveraging from 
other development schemes. 
Part D:
Establishment of Effective Project Management System 
1. 
Enhancement of Project Management and Support
Enhance Project management by: (i) developing a comprehensive Monitoring and 
Evaluation System; and (ii) strengthening the capacity to support the Project through, 
inter alia, the establishment of a Central Project Support Unit (“CPSU”), which shall 
be organized under the Borrower’s Department of Women and Child Development, Ministry 
of Human Resource Development and the provision of support for WDCs’ staffing, 
equipment and operational needs. 
2.
Establishment of Monitoring and Evaluation Systems
Establish monitoring and evaluation systems,  including a computerized project 
management system, a management information system and a concurrent monitoring and 
evaluation process, to assess Project implementation, performance and sustainability 
on an on-going basis and assimilate the lessons learnt for future Project 
implementation.
**
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall by June 30, 1999, cause the Department of Women and Child 
Development (“DWCD”) in the Borrower’s Ministry of Human Resource Development to: 
(a)  establish an advisory panel that includes NGOs nationwide with experience in the 
formation of SHG clusters and associations of SHG clusters; and (b) organize a 
workshop for the advisory panel to assist NGOs in devising an overall strategy for the 
formation of SHG clusters and associations of such clusters prior to launching a 
program for such cluster and cluster association formation.
2.
The Borrower shall by December 31, 1999, cause DWCD to: (a) appoint an 
independent and suitably qualified agency to assess NGOs’ performance and 
participatory management processes under the Project and make recommendations thereon; 
and (b) prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to implement such 
recommendations.
3.
The Borrower shall cause DWCD by June 30, 2000, to: (a) organize a management 
review of WDCs to assess the long-term role of the WDCs in assisting women’s 
development programs and recommend appropriate adjustments in WDCs’ roles, operational 
structures and management systems; and (b) prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, to implement such recommendations. 
4.
The Borrower shall by January 31 each year, starting in 1999, cause DWCD to 
provide to the Association for review and comments, a copy of CPSU’s annual action and 
procurement plans for the Borrower’s following fiscal year and, thereafter, take into 
account the Association’s recommendations and views in finalizing the plans.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain appropriate policies and procedures to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, the 
implementation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association: (i) every three months beginning on or about December 31, 
1998, a report, which integrates the results of CPSU’s monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
Page  12
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and (ii) every twelve months beginning on or about December 31, 
1999, a report, which integrates and consolidates the results of CPSU’s and WDCs’ 
monitoring and evaluation activities, on the progress achieved in the implementation 
of the Project during the twelve-month period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said reports and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2.
(a)
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
(b)
Each payment (including a payment under a letter of credit) for an 
eligible expenditure in an amount equal to or less than the equivalent of $300,000 
shall be made exclusively out of the Special Account.  The Association may from time 
to time, by notice to the Borrower, revise the threshold amount specified in the 
preceding sentence.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
Page  13
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  14
