Dolmnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFfICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6490-CRG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES
FOURTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
April 2, 1987
Projects Department
Latin At..erica and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfotmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES
FOURTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Currency Exchange Rate - US$1.00 = EC$2.7
GLOSSARY
AGFUND   - Arab Gulf Fund
BDD      -  British Development Division
CARICOM  - Caribbean Common Market
CGCED    - Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
CIDA     - Canadian International Development Agency
CDB      -  Caribbean Development Bank
CXC      -  Caribbean Examination Council
ECCB     -  Eastern Caribbean Central Bank
EDF      -  European Development Fund
ILO      -  International Labor Organization
LMIS     - Labor Market Information System
MOE      - Ministry of Education
MOL      - Ministry of Labor
NTB      - National Training Board
OECS     -  Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
OPEC     - Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PIT      - Project Implementation Team
RTB      - Regional Training Board
UNESCO   - United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNDP     - United Nations Development Program
USzID    - United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES
FOURTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Paze No.
I.    IDA CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................ ..............   1
II.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR .................3
Overall Development Context          ....................... ......   3
Overview of Education in the Region          ......................   4
The Vocational and Technical Education Subsectors . .......       5
Issues in Vocational and Technical Education ..... ........   5
Education Finances ......         **ee***   ec.. .    7
Government Strategies for Development of
Vocational and Technical Education          .....................   7
Bank/IDA Strategy for Development of
Vocational and Technical Education in the
Project Beneficiary States         .............................   8
III.  THE PROJECT ...............................................    8
Project Origin ... ..........   8
Project Objectives and Scope         .............................   9
Improving the Quality and Relevance of Instruction * ......   9
Expanding Training Capacity ..............................  10
Enhancing Sector Management ...        ..................e........  11
Technical Assistance See ........ ........................   13
Project Costs and Financing         ..............................  13
Commitment Fees ...........*...** ......  *e..........  eec. 15
CDBs The Intermediary Borrower          ...........................  15
Implementation and Supervision          ...........................  16
Procurement .....................................c.....,  18
Disbursements  *.................    .....................   18
Accounting, Auditing and Evaluation ...... .................    18
Project Benefits and Risks         .....................e.......  19
IV.   AGREEENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...............                20
This report is based on tho findings of pre-Appraisal and Appralisl slisions to the
Eastern Caribbean region in Septembnr 1966 and February 196, respectively. The
mission teams included Messrs. W.V. Hobbs (Technical Educator *nd leader of pre-
Appraisal), L. Briggs (Technical Educator and leader of Appraisal), J. St. GerFain
(Architect), R. Horn (Econo.m1t), and E. Ruderfer (Economist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorIzation.



*                    ~~~~~~~- ii 
Table of Coonts (Continued)
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1:   Description of Individual Country Subprojocts
Annex 2:    Comparative Education Indicators
Annex 3:    Structure of the Formal Education System
Annex 4s   Comparison of Manpower Demand and Supply During 1987-96
Annex 5:    Instructors/Fellowship Requirements and Proposed Training
Capacity
Annex 6:   Project Cost Summary Accounts
Annex 7:   Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Annex 8s    Su-mry Account by Prosect Component
Annex 9:   Financing Plan and Country Counterpart Contribution
Annex 10: Procurement Arrangements
Annex 11: Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Annex 12:  Enrollments, Teachers and Unit Costs
Annex 13: Recurrent Cost Requirements and Cost Recovery
Annex 14:  Project Action Dates and Monitoring Indicators
Annex'15:   Implementation Schedule
Annex 16:   Organization Chart for Project Implementation
Annex 17:  Bilateral Assistance for Training Within the Region
Annex 18: Past Bank/I)A Lending to the CDB
Annex 19:  Proposed IDA Credit Features
Annex 20:  CDBs The Borrower
Annex 21:   Related Documents and Data Available in Project Files
Reports and Studies Relating to the Region
Reports and Studies Relating to the Beneficiary States
Reports and Studies Relating to the Projct
MAP



EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES
FOURTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
I. IDA CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMNARY
Borrower/
Intermediary:      Caribbean Development Bank.
Beneficiary
Statess            Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and
St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
Amoutnt:           SDR 4.8 million (US$6.0 million).
Termst             Standard IDA terms.
Onlending Terms:   Each of the 5 beneficiary states would receive the
amount of IDA funds for which it La eligible on the same
standard IDA terms provided by IDA to CDB, except that
the beneficiary states would pay CDB on a quarterly
basis; each beneficiary state would bear the credit and
foreign exchange risks for its portion of the credit.
The IDA eonnitment fee of 112X on the undisbursed
balance, which would begin to accrue on the
effectiveness date of the IDA credit or on a date 210
days after board presentation date, whichever is
earlier, would be paid by the respective beneficiary
states. CDB's liabilities to IDA in respect of the
credit would be limited to amounts paid to CDB by sub-
borrowers in respect of their individual subloans. CDB
would assign to IDA its righta to contracts for subloans
made with IDA resources.
Cofinanciers:      Cofinancing for all equipment and furniture under the
proposed project (US$2.8M) would be provided by CDB
while 44X of the civil works (US$2.5 M) would be
cofinanced by the OPEC Fund.
Project
Description:       The proposed project would improve the quality and
quantity of trained manpower in the beneficiary states
by: (a) improving the quality of facilities and
instruction, (b) expanding training capacity, and
(c) enhancing sector management. It would include
construction, equipment and furniture for technician
training programs of 5 technical colleges; vocational
education programs of 7 senior secondary schools; and
prevocational education programs of 10 junior secondary
schools serving 80 feeder schools; plus, for each
project school, an initial stock of consumable
supplies/spare parts to be used in equipment maintenance
and in repair service programs (with cost-recovery).
The project would also include technical assistance in



-2 -
support of training program development efforts (102
staff months of consultant services and 632 staff months
of fellowship training), ostablishing in each project
state a labor market information system with inter-
regional linkages (24 staff months), and conducting
feasibility studies on cost-saving/cost-recovery
measures in the education sector of all beneficiary
stat.s (12 staff months).
Benefits and       The project is expected to generate significant benefits
Risks              for the five participating countries bys (a) improving
national and subregional planning procedures for human
resources development; (b) developing training
capability and capacity, with the ultimate goal of
assuring adequately trained manpower for selected
subsectors of industrial development; (c) enhancing
sector management; and (d) increasing worker
productivity. The risks arro (a) there is a possibility
that only 3 or 4 of the 5 countries may ultimately
participate in the project, In which case, the full
benefits anticipated would not be realised and (b) there
may be considerable variability in implementation rates
among the countries, thereby causing delays in
implementation of project activities common to all of
the beneficiary states, particularly, technical
assistance and procurement of goods. While delays due
to project implementation complexities cannot be ruled
out, the probability of less than 5 countries
participating is low due to the strong commitment
expressed by all countries to it. Also, the expected
strong leadership from the Project Team in the CDB would
help to minimize any implementation/management problems.
Estimated Prolect Costs by Countries: a/
(including central project administration)
(US$ Million)
Local     Forei2n      Total
Dominica                                        0.5         1.0         1.5
Grenada                                         0.4         1.0         1.4
St. Kitts and Nevis                             0.6         1.3         1.9
St. Lucia                                       1.0         2.6         3.6
St. Vincent and the Grenadines                  0.8         2.2         3.0
Total Base Line Costs (1986 Prices)             3.3         8.1        11.4
Physical Contingencies                       0.3         0.8         1.1
Price Contingencies                          0.1         0.4         0.5
Total Project Cost:                             3.7         9.3        13.0
t1 Net of taxe and dutes.



-3-
Proiect Financing Plan
Local      Foreign       Total
---------(US$ Million)--------
Governments              1.7         0.0           1.7
IDA                      0.9         5.1          6.0
CDB                      0.6         2.2           2.8
OPEC Fund                0.5         2.0           2.5
Total           3.7          9.3         13.0
These estimates exclude taxes from which the project components are exempt.
Estimated IDA Credit Disbursementas
US$ million
IDA FY       1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Annual        0.6    1.0    1.5    1.5    1.0    0.4
Cumulative    0.6    1.6    3.1    4.6    5.6    6.0
Z Of Total   10.0   27.0   52.0   77.0   93.0  100.0
Rate of Returns Not applicable.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Overall Development Context
2.1      Unemslovment, within the 18-20% range, is prevalent in most of the
OECS countries, with unskilled workers --especially young people--
suffering the brunt of the problem. At the same time, most OECS countries
report severe shortages of trained manpower, along with low rates of
productivity among existing workers. Despite relatively high quantitative
performance of the OECS education systems at the primary and general
secondary levels, most school leavers in these countries are not well
prepared for employment. The shortage of appropriate job skills among
existing skilled workers and technicians in virtually all sectors of
economic activity, combined with the resulting low rates of worker
productivity, presents an increasingly serious constraint to economic
development. In addition, private enterprises in the various economic
sectors tend to be very small and types and levels of worker skills which
they require fluctuate widely. This requires in the OECS countries
broadly-oriented training programs to develop job skills with greater
ranges of applicability and mechanisms which determine, and periodically
updatet information concerning training needs within the countries and the
region.



-4-
Overview of Education in the Region
2.2      While the OECS countries do not have a unified and coordinated
regional education system, their education structures are virtrially
identical (Annex 3), reflecting their common colonial past. PrAmary school
consicts generally of seven years (g.ades 1-5, plus 2 years of preschool
education) with enrollments, as a regional average, approaching 1002 for
the age group (ages 5-11). Secondary school enrollments (grades 6-12)
range from 22S of the age group (ages 12-18) in St. Lucia to 542 in St.
Kitts and Nevis. The lower enrollment at the secondary level has been due
partially to the limited number of available spaces and to the fact that,
in most of the OECS countries, admission at this level is gained only by
examination.  Governments in these countries are making special e'forts to
increase access to secondary education through program expansion and
restructuL4ng. While student participation in secondary education is low,
the quality )f general education at both levels is relatively high. The
OECS countries are seeking to improve and expand education opportunity at
the secondary level with assistance from bilateral sources and,
particularly, the Caribbean Examination Council (CXC), an organization with
representation from each country, which focuses on the common aspects of
curriculum improvement throughout the region. These efforts, in addition
to improving overall quality of education in the region, will improve
concurrently the quality of students entering the vocational and technical
education programs.
2.3      Students failing to gain admission to secondary schools in the
OECS countries are allowed to remain in the "all-age-primary-schools"
through grade 9 or 10, although at present relatively few students choose
that option. As a basis for subsequent occupational study and job skill
development, these schools include limited offerings in prevocational
education, usually provided on a 3-hours per day, 2-day per week schedule
in specialized training centers which serve a number of feeder schools.
The prevocational education programs are designed to develop in the early
'teen years" an awareness of occupations, including use of tools and
equipment and the development of basic work skills, habits, and attitudes.
The OECS Governments propose to expand these prevocational progrms to
serve more of the youth who otherwise grow up not knowing about work
possibilities and without a foundation for job preparation. To improve the
current systemlstructure of education, all OECS countries have Initiated
junior secondary schools which accept a limited number of students from the
upper levels of the all-sge-primary schools and offer them basic, pre-
vocational education along with the traditional general studies in a
comprehensive type of curriculum. Some of the larger secondary schools
operate as comprehensive schools also, offering opportunity for vocational
skills training. In all of the project countries, offoxts are under way to
implement structural reform within the educational system and to update and
improve school curricula and grade-level articulation (Annex 1).
2.4      The tertiary level of education includes programs for the
preparation of primary and general secondary school teachers, plus limited
offerings of first- and second-year university-level courses provJded by
the University of the West Indies Extra-Mural Studies Department. Only
St. Lucia offers preservice preparation of teachers for vocational and
prevocational subjects. Other OECS countries send their candidates abroad



-5-
(mostly to Jamaica) for teacher preparation in this area. Most OECS
countries have post-secondary technical colleges for the preparation of
technician.. However, as a means of improving administrative &nd
operational efficiency and strengthening program quality, several of thes.
colleges are now being brought under a community college structure with two
divisions: academic and technical.
The Vocational and Technical Education Subsectors
2.5      Vocational education grotrams of the secondary schools/training
centers concentrate primarily on the preservice prepaLation of in-school
youth for entry-level employment as semi-skilled and skilled workers.
However, they also offer adult evening courses as inservice training in
such specializations as demand warrants and this would increase under the
project. Training specializations at this level include building trades,
metalwork, electricity (equipment ropair), automechanics, hoa  economics
(tourism, hotels, garment making, etc.) agriculture, and clerical/
stenography. The proservice day-school programs, generally 3 years in
duration (grade. 9-11), accept students from both within, if comprehensive
secondary schools, and from surrounding 'feeder" schools for approximately
6 hours of practical skills training per week (2 days of 3 hours each).
General education and other normal education support is provided in the
feeder (home) school. Adult evening courses vary in weekly contact time
depending on the type of course and clientele needs.
2.6      Technical Education was initiated by most of the OECS countries
during the early 19709 when small 2-year, post-secondary technical colloeas
were established to provide job preparation for youth of age 16-plus and
for adults. These colleges offer training programs of greater scope aAd
depth than the vocational schools and typically provide instruction in such
areas as building trades, cabinet and furniture me-king, automotive, general
metals, electrical installation, radio-television repair, air conditioning
and refrigeration, tourism and commerce, and, where not provided elsewhere,
in home economics/tourism, secretarial science, and agriculture. Adult
training programs are in considerable demand and are provided by all
colleges, normally as evening offerings. As with vocational education,
because of serious space and/or equipment limitations, technical education
programs are presently inadequate for the growing needs of the business,
industry, agriculture, and service sectors in all OECS countries.
Issues in Vocational and Technical Education
2.7      A major constraint to industrial development in the OECS region is
the low cuality of trainint protrams and the resulting low level of skills
proficiency among the work force. Graduates of training programs are
inadequately prepared for employment end, because of their shortcomings,
product quality and worker productivity remain low. As a result,
industries of the OECS countzies find it increasingly difficult to compete
successfully in the market place. This situation results, at least in
part, from the fact that vocational and technical education programs in the
OECS region have not yet attained the necessary standards required for
preparation of quality graduates. Training programs (both preservice and
inservice) for the preparation of skilled workers and technicians in the
region are suffering from poorly qualified teachers, inadequate and
outdated instructional equipment, unsuitable training facilities, and



-6 -
training curricult and instructional methodology which generally need to be
up-dated and made more relevant to employer nee0s. Resolution of tkese
problems must receive speciul attention in Governmental plans to support
industrial development efforts in the member states.
2.8      Inadeauate vocational and technical trainint capacity to meet
long-term needs for human resources devolopment also causes growing
concern. Total employment in the project beneficiary states Il 1983 was
approximately 123,000 workers, of whom about 16,000 (13%) were estimated to
have been employed at the skilled worker and technician levels (Annex 4).
No official figures are currently available from the countries on long-tenm
manpower needs; however, IDA staff estimates indicate an increased demand
over the next decade at a rate of about 3 percent per year to allow for
economic growth and about 2 percent per year for attrition and normal
employee turnover. Thus, it is estimated, based on a country by country
sectoral analysis, that during the decade of 1987-96, there will be a
continued total need among combined ecc.nomc sectors in the project
beneficiary states for an average of about 1,050 newly trained workers per
year at the skilled and semiskilled worker and technician levels.
Current proservice training output of about 600 newly-trained workers per
year at these levels Is clearly insufficient to meet the long-term
development needs. In addition to the inadequate capacity for preparing
new workers, inservice training opportunities for existing workers are
considerably less than those needed for industrial development. In
response to identified training needs, individual and organizational
demands are increasing for part-time inservice training of employed adults,
generally in evening courses, as a means of improving their job skills and
increasing worker productivity. The need for such training is especially
acute among the approximately 16,000 skilled workers and technicians
currently employed in the project beneficiary states. Employer
contributions to inservice training are almost non-existent due to the
small size of most enterprises.
2.9      The OECS countries generally lack an integrated approach.
internally and retionally, to manpower Planning and development and to
providing special training courses to meet regional needs in cases where
the costs of offering courses m,ationally are prohibitive. In response to
individual country concerns, ministries of education in the OECS countries
are establishing National Training Boards (NTBs) with representation from
the public and private sectors, including both employers and workers, for
advising the respective ministries on manpower training needs and curricula
content (para. 3.5). Additionally, the International Labor Organization
(ILO) has assisted some OECS countries (notably Grenada) in establishing
preliminary labor market information systems (LMIS) to support planning for
such training. However, this initial effort ueeds to be strengthened
through cooperative arrangements with the NTBs and direct involvement from
employers in each respective country. It also needs to be expanded among
the OECS countries into a common-based LMIS, with intra-regional linkages,
which allows for regional approaches to manpower planning and development.
The regional aspect of the training coordInation concern would be addressed
in this proposed project (para. 3.8).



-7-
Education Finance
2.10     The project beneficiary states have experienced varying degroes of
difficulty since their recent independence in meeting the recurrent costs
of their Governmental operations. They have generated inadequate
surpluses, relying on external grants and loans to finance a large
proportion (if not all) of their capital investments. The 1985 curr-.&tt
surpluses of the central Government budgets in these countries amounted to
0.5% of GDP in Dominica, 0.7X in Grenada, and 4.8% in St. Vincent and the
Grenadines, with a 0.91 deficit In St. Lucia and a 6.72 deficit in St.
Kitts and Nevis. Because the education sector absorbs a large portion of
Governmental funds, special efforts are being made to economize to the
extent possible while still maintaining a viable education system. The
public costs of education in the OECS countries are relatively high,
accounting for between 15% and 24% (with an average of 18.61) of the
Governmental budgets (1984-85), and between 3% and 6.4X (with an average of
4.51) of GDP. The budgetary annual percentages compare with an overall
average of 16.91 for all countries in the Latin America and Caribbean
Region, while the average percentage of GDP is approximately the same as
the overall regional average.
2.11     The costs of vocational and technical education in the project
beneficiary states, except for minor student fees, are financed through
regular budgetary appropriations to the respective Ministries of Education.
Generally, only the technical colleges have separate allocation categories
in the Governmental budgets. They therefore have greater flexibility and
incentive for implementing innovative approaches to cost reduction. Over
the period 1981-1985 the education proportion of total Governmental
expenditures in the project beneficiary states has remained relatively
stable, but Governments are now finding it increasingly difficult to
maintain, let alone to increase, this share. Any provision for new or
expancr ld programs will have to come from curtailment of some other
services, and/or through increased cost-effectiveness and cost-recovery
measures in the education sector. The proposed project would stimulate
development of initiatives for increased cost-effectiveness and cost-
recovery in education (para. 3.10).
Government Strategies for Development of Vocational and Technical Education
2.12     Major themes of Government strategy for human resources
development throughout the project beneficiary states have been increased
output and higher quality of newly-trained workers, improvement of job
skills among those already employed, special training for the unemployed,
and improved mechanisms, both within countries and regionally, for
determining training needs. Current plans of the respective Governments
call for:
(a)  increasing the capacity of vocational and technical education
programs and the provision of preservice training in a broader
range of job skills with greater job relevance for a major portion
of the 13-16 year age group to ensure their leaving the education
system better prepared for effective employment;



- 8 -
(b) provision of inservies training during non-working hours for
employed workers;
(c) provision of courses for out-of-school youth and unemployed adults,
with a more equitable distribution of training opportunities among
special needs groups; and
(d) strengthening the institutional base for human resources develop-
ment, including improvement in the quality and provision of basic
education and prevocational education.
Some assistance for attaining the objective under Cc) and (d) has been
provided by UNESCO and several bilateral donors, including a multi-state
project financed by UNDP and the Arab Gulf Fund (AGFUND), which was
implemented in the region during the October 1983 - December 1985 period.
The main objective of the project was to establish a prevocational skill
learning program for the junior secondary age-group (12-15 years) in
secoudary and all-age primary schools as a base for subsequent acquisition
of more advanced vocational skills. UNESCO and ILO assisted In
implementation of the project. There have been other sources of foreign
assistance for limited support of vocational and technical education and
occupational training (Annex 17), though these efforts too have been
minimal, leaving a continuing substantial void in the subsector. In
general, NGO support in the beneficiary states tends to be sporadic and not
well focused on long-term initiatives in the education sector. Coordination
of these activities is mostly under the Ministries of Education. This
proposed project would build upon and complement accomplishments of the
UNESCO/AGFUND project and other sti41ar activities in the sector by
consolidating all vocational and teunnical training efforts under a single
coordinated system.
BankLIDA Strategv for Development of Vocational and Technical Education in
Project Beneficiary States
2 13     The proposed project would be the Bank's first education lending
operation in the OECS countries. Bank/IDA strategy in the vocational/
technical education subsector, in conformity with the Governments'
priorities, focuses on supporting the project beneficiary states" efforts to
increase labor productivity and industrial output and to improve the quality
of goods and services. It calls for expanding and upgrading skills training
to meet oritical manpower needs in the industry, commerce, agriculture, and
service sectors, while addressing issues related to increasing quality and
efficiency in training programs. This strategy would also" support skills
training for various disadvantaged groups, such as school drop-outs, along
with skills training leading to self-employment or income supplementing
opportunities for low-income individuals and families and for the
unemployed. In view of the serious financial constraints in the education
sector,.the Goveraments' doption of improved efficiency, cost effectiveness
and cost recovery measures in the sector would be encouraged. The education
systems within the projeut beneficiary states, which originate from their
common historical past, are similar and offer good scope for a regional
development approach.



- 9 -
III. THE PROJECT
Proloct Oriain
3.1      The proposed project was identified and prepared by the five
beneficiary states with assistance from UNESCO. It was jointly pre-
appraised by IDA and CDB in August/September 1985, and IDA completed
appraisal in January 1986. Post-appraisal discussions were held by Il)A and
CDB with the project beneficiary states in October of 1986 to resolve
outstanding issues. Negotiations were held in Barbados during the week of
March 23-27, 1987 with participation by representatives from IDA, CDBI, and
the project beneficiary st&tes.
Project Objectives and Scope
3.2      The proposed project would focus on kiproving the quality and
quantity of trained manpower in the project beneficiary states by seeking
to: (a) improve the quality of instruction; (b) expand training capacity;
and (c) enhance sector management. It would initiate a regional approach to
improving vocational and technical education systems within the five OECS
countries/beneficiary states referred to In Chapter I, through:
(a) expansion/rehabilitation of vocational/technical school facilities,
including purchase of now equipment and addition of new classrooms and
shops; and (b) technical assistance to improve the quality of vocationall
technical education and to conduct feasibility studies for policy
improvements in education, including education finances, increased
officiency of the system, and enhancement of cost recovery. Individual
subproject components of the beneficiary states are presented in Annex 1;
the following paragraphs detail their contribution to achieving project
objectives.
Improving the Quality and Relevance of Instruction
3.3      The project would include upgrading and updating curricula, course
content, instructional aids, training staff, and instructional evaluation
procedures/standards under leadership of a vocational and technical
education (VTE) adviser to be employed under the project. Staff upgrading
would be accomplished through fellowships abroad for about 59 vocational
and 23 technical instructors plus 4 maintenance technicians (para. 3.11),
as a means of upgrading instructional procedures and methodology.
Apprenticeship training programs would be initiated on a pilot basis at the
senior secondary and college levels and, In general, would require a full-
time equivalent of about six months direct, on-job experience in tho
occupational field for which training is being received, though the pattern
would vary depending on individual country conditions. Students
participating in the work practice phase of the program would be paid a
minimal stipend by the host employer. The pilot programs would extend over
a four-year period and those which prove to be successful would be expanded
and replicated in other schools to the extent possible and appropriate.
The apprenticeship program would be linked to a graduate placement program
to assist graduates in obtaining first-time entry-level employment. As is
common practice, individual instructors would be responsible for
coordinating employment arrangements. Additionally, entrepreneurship
training courses would be offered on a p4'ot basis, initially in the



- 10 -
technical collages, to assist individuals in learning to establish and
manage small enterprises and to seek sources of venture capital for initial
development and operation.
3.4      In addition to the usual preservice training in the project
schools, special emphasis would be given in evening classes to the training
of unemployed adults and out-of-school youth in broad-based "clusters of
related skills," thus providing needed flexibility in meeting the demands
of the labor market for semi-skilled workers with a variety of job skills.
Cooperative apprenticeship a&&d "day release" training schemes with industry
would be expanded within the project schools to more rapidly and
efficiently upgrade the skills requirements of employed workers.
3.5      All project beneficiary states are establishing NTBs to assist in
determining local training needs and to advise the respective Ministries of
Education on cu-ricula content and relevancy to actual employer/job
requirements (para. 2.9). Sub-loan agreements between CDB and the
beneficiary countries would require each beneficiary country to certify to
CDB, no later than six months after credit effectiveness, that its
respective NTB is operational and to provide names, periods of appointment,
areas of expertise, and employer affiliation of its members. Under the
project, the NTBs would be strengthened and become involved to a greater
extent in maintaining up-to-date training programs which are more
responsive to employer and trainee needs. The NTBs would help to establish
both formal and informal institutional contacts with the agriculture,
industry, and commerce sectors and would assist in obtaining feedback on
job performance of training programs graduates. They also would provide
guidance, through the Ministries of Education, to their respective
Governments for establishing or expanding the labor market information
systems for project beneficiary countries. The NTBs would be linked to a
proposed Regional Training Board (para. 3.8 and Annex 16) in order to
enhance coordination of manpower information systems and training programs
on a regional basis.
Expanding Training Capacity
3.6      The proposed project would help to expand training capacity and
improve the quality of existing facilities so that the vocational/technical
education systems can respond more effectively to training needs of
individuals and employers. Construction, equipment and furniture would be
provided for: (a) replacement of facilities and equipment for one technical
college (St. Lucia), partial renovation of existing spaces and provision of
equipment for three technical colleges (Dominica, Grenada, St. Vincentl
Grenadines), and provision of equipment only for one technical college (St.
Kitts/Nevis); (b) provision of new or expanded training facilities and
equipment for vocational programs of 7 senior secondary schools/training
centers and for prevocational programs of 10 junior secondary schools
serving students from about 80 feeder schools (Annex 1); and (c) provision
of an initial stock of consumable supplies (including supplies for repair
shops), at an average cost of about US$60,000 per project beneficiary
state, for use in project-assisted schools on a revolving cost-recovery
basis (Annex 13). Equipment to be procured in the project would include
spare parts for maintenance. Sub-loan agreements between CDB and
participating countries would require that no later than June 30, 1988,
the respective beneficiary countries would provide to CDB a formal plan for



- 11 -
regular maintenance of instructional equipment and facilities for their
individual vocational and technical education programs. Training capacity
to be achieved with the addition of project-created spaces, and the planned
annual output by level and country, is shown in Annex 5, Table 2. Planned
training capacities for the respective sectors in each participating
country are based on the current projection of manpower needs over the next
decade (Annex 4). However, as the programs will be relatively broad, there
will be a degree of flexibility for adtpting to changing manpower demands
over the long-term. Upon completion of project implementation, the
additional training capacity to be provided would require an increase in
instructional staff in the region of about 50 vocational instructors, 13
technical instructorst and 2 maintenance technicians, a major part of the
expected increase in recurrent costs. An adequate number of technically
qualified individuals are available within the project beneficiary
cou4tries to meet these additional requirements.   However, they would need
refresher courses in their technical specializations and updated knowledge
on instructional methodology. This would account for a sizeable portion of
those to receive special instructor training under the project's fellowship
program (Annex 5, Table 1).
Enhancing Sector Management
3.7      Labor Market Information System LLMIS).  The project beneficiary
countries, with assistance from a project manpower specialist(sj (para.
3.11), would establish in their respective Ministry of Education or other
appropriate Ministry, a LMIS for conducting labor market/job analysis
studies. The LMIS would collect, generate, and analyze information on
population trends, the labor force, wage rates and earnings, labor mobility
and turnover, manpower and training needs, training capacity, etc.
Processing of this information would be accomplished by use of a
microcomputer to be purchased under the project for each participating
country. Such information would be disseminated to various government
agencies for planning and training purposes. The NTBs, operating under the
Ministry of Education, would be directly involved with this activity,
mostly in an advisory capacity. Preliminary work in such an effort,
including completion of job analysis studies, has already been initiated in
Grenada. In addition, the ILO has conducted a number of seminars in the
region to assisti in preliminary reviews of needs for such activities. A
similarly qualified organization, or individuals, would be contracted in
accordance with IDA guidelines for hiring consultants, to provide the
manpower specialists for establishing an effective labor market information
system with regional linkages in all project beneficiary countries. LMIS
representatives from participating countries would meet periodically on a
regional basis to ensure regional coordination of the manpower system.
3.8      Regional Training Board.  The project would include a review by
the VTE Advisor, working closely with the OECS Secretariat, of the scope,
responsibility and authority of the individual country National Training
Boards and expected requirements for a proposed Regional Training Board
(RTB) to operate under the proposed project in close cooperation with the
OECS Secretariat (Annex 16). A subsequent draft report with
recommendations based on the review would be submitted to the OECS
countries, OECS Secretariat, CDB, and IDA for comments and approval. The
OECS countries would implement, through the Secretariat, the
recommendations relative to establishing the Regional Training Board and



- 12 -
initiating its program of work. Membership on the RTB is expected to
comprise the technical education officer in each country plus one
rrpresentative from the respective NTBs. Resources for the six-year period
of project implementation would be provided under the project to cover the
costs of personnel and administrative support (OECS coordinator and
clerical staff member at one-third time for six years of project
implementation), materials, supplies, printing, etc., plus travel and
operational costs for meetings of the Regional Training Board and for
representatives of the labor market information systems of each country.
Such funding would be made available on an annually declining basis to
enable individual countries to integrate the costs into their annual
budgets for its continuation. It is anvisaged that the RTB would have the
following purposes: (i) planning, programming and implementation of
training specializations which would be uneconomical for a single country
to undetcake. With cooperation of individual country technical education
officers, region-wide needs would be indicated, such as course syllabi
development, special inservice instructor training, improvement of
institutional management, seminars on effective and economic cost recovery
techniques for reducing net costs of consumable supplies, and other
priority needsa (ii) stanlardization of curricula, testing, skilled worker
certification, and regional infrastructure programs. Specialized courses
presently organized in an ad hoc manner in the various OECS countries
attract students from other member countries. To maximize benefits from
this type of training, some common curricular elements are required; (iii)
organization and establishment of regional arrangements for production and
procurement of educational materials; i.e., textbooks and essential
equipment; (iv) regionalizat'on of the manpower labor information system
which wnuld be implemented under the project on an individual country
basis. Though restrictions exist relative to labor movement within the
region, it does happen on an informal basis.
3.9      Cost-savinxs in Education. In view of current financial
constraints in the project beneficiary states (para. 2.10), the Governments
concerned are seeking ways to ease the situation without sacrificing their
basic education systems and the quality of their education. Aware of the
need, some Governments have already been considering certain measures,
including the feasibility of combining the technical college with the
general college to form a comprehensive community college under a single
admir4stration. This has already been done in Dominica and St. Lucia.
General education courses in the college would then be shared by both
groups (technical and general), with a resulting decrease in course
duplication, concurrent with a decrease in total administrative costs.
3.10     The proposed project would make provision for conducting, in all
project beneficiary states, broadly based feasibility studies aimed at
cost-savings and cost-recovery in education. These would include studies
to determine the feasibility of: (i) improving training efficiency in the
technical and vocational school programs by increasing class size where
possible and by merging some technical and skill courses which are common
to several training specializations and thus increasing the student-teacher
ratios; (ii) initiating student fees in the technical colleges and
providing scholaralips and student loans to those unable to pay, (iii)
initiating cost re_overy schemes through training program services (auto
mechanics, radio-television repair, etc.) (Annex 13), and (iv) providing
textbooks on a cost recovery basis with students paying a user's fee. Two



- 13 -
education finance specialists (para. 3.11) would be provided under the
project for six months each to assist each project beneficiary country in
conducting the cost recovery/savings studies in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to CDB and IDA. During negotiations, CDB obtained and
provided to IDA a statement describing each country's policy on
Implementing cost-saving measures in the education sector
(para. 4.1(e)). The proposed studies would provide the basis for
implementing such policies. Feasibility studies on cost-savings and cost-
recovery possibilities would be completed and provided to CDB and IDA for
their comments by December 31, 1988 (para. 4.1(f)). Sub-loan agreements
between CDB and the beneficiary countries would require the countries to
inform CDB and IDA by June 30, 1989 regarding the measures which they
propose to adopt as a result of the studies.
Technical Assistance
3.11     The proposed project would include a comprehansive technical
assistance package for fellowships and project-related consultants'
services, the latter of which would be contracted under a single firm.
This technical assistance would include common elements serving the needs
of 5 countries and has been designed in a way to ensure it's provision in a
cost effective manner. The consultants' services would be as follows: (i)
vocational-technical education advisor to assist and supervise refinement
of curricula, course syllabi, institutional management policies and
planning procedures, and national and regional training board policies and
procedures (48 staff-months); (ii) procurement sgecialist for preparation
and implementation of procurement actions for project equipment and
furniture (equivalent of about 36 staff-months); (iiI) manpower planning
specialist for helping to establish a labor market information system in
each project country (equivalent of about 24 staff-months); and (iv) an
education financial specialist (total of 12 staff-months) to help conduct
feasibility studies on cost recovery in education in all beneficiary states
(para. 3.10).  An architect/construction engineer would be provided by CDB
for review and advice on, and approval of, project civil works designs and
construction (18 staff-months); The project consultants and CDB specialist
would comprise a Project Implementation Team (PIT), to be headquartered at
the CDB in Barbados, which would work under the direction of a Project
Ccordinator (para. 3.18).   Costs of the PIT, which would be included in
the total project costs, would be borne by each project beneficiary state
proportional to its subproject's costs, as presently estimated. Fellowship
trainina abroad under the proposed project would be provided for
instructors, supervisors, and equipment maintenance specialists (632 staff-
months). Terms of reference for the proposed technical assistance
specialists/firms; qualifications and criteria for selection of fellowship
candidates; a plan and schedule for fellowship training; qualifications for
the Project Coordinator and the local Project Managers; and dates for
actual employment of the technical assistance specialists after credit
effectiveness have been reviewed by IDA and were confirmed and agreed
during negotiations (para. 4.1(a)). CDB would recruit and contract, on
behalf of the beneficiary country Governments, the technical ssistance
firm described above for assignment to the CDB's PIT under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. CDB selection and country approval of the
technical assistance firm and confirmation of appointment of the CDB
architect/construction engineer would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (para. 4.2(b)).



- 14 -
Prolect Costs and Financing
3.12     Investment Cost Estimates.  The total cost of the proposed
project, which would be exempt from taxes and duties, has been estimated at
EC$35.1 million or about US$13.0 million equivalent, of which US$9.3
million equivalent (72%) would be in foreign exchange. A breakdown of the
project costs by country and subproject component is presented in Annex 6;
costs by overall project category are given in Annex 7; and costs by
country component category of expenditure appear in Annex 8. Estimated
project costs have been grouped according to: (a) the direct in-country
component; i.e., five distinct subcomponents (subprojects -- one for each
country), including the estimated costs for civil works, goods, and
fellowships, and (b) the regional component, the costs of which would be
distributed among the beneficiary states proportional to the cost of their
respective in-country components, as presently estimated. If less than
five project beneficiary states ultimately participate in the proposed
project, the proposed credit allocations for in-country components
pertaining to non-participating states would be cancelled and adjustments
would be made as necessary in the estimated per-country costs of the PIT
and other regional services.   The costs of these regional components, to
be included under the proposed credit, would be distributed among the
remaining beneficiary states proportional to the costs of their country
components: i.e., civil works, goods, and fellowships.
3.13     Basis of Cost Estimates.  All cost estimates are based on October
1986 figures. Cost estimates for civil works in the respective countries
are based on costs of similar structures recently constructed. Equipment
and furniture costs are based on costs of similar equipment and furniture
recently procured in the area. Costs of technical assistance are estimated
on the basis of similar services being used in the region. Foreign
exchange costs are estimated at 80% for civil works and for equipment and
furniture and 1002 for technical assistance. Physical contingencies would
amount to 10% of total base costs. Price contingencies (calculated as an
average for all participating countries) have been used for both local and
foreign costs as follows: 3% for 1987, 12 for 1988 through 1990, and 3.5%
for 1990 through 1993. The same price contingencies have been used for
both local and foreign costs as, historically, inflation rates in the OECS
countries have been, on average, similar to those in the United States. A
comparison of unit costs and recurrent costs to be incurred by the project
appear in Annexes 12 and 13, respectively.
3.14     Financing Plan.  The financing plan for the total estimated
project cost of about US$13.0 million equivalent would provide for lending
on a joint basis by IDA and the OPEC Fund and on a parallel basis with
CDB. The CDB would finance 100% of the equipment and furniture costs while
the OPEC Fund would finance 44% of civil works costs. IDA financing would
cover the remaining 56% of civil works and all technical assistance.
Additionally, there will be counterpart contributions totaling US$1.7
million equivalent by the project beneficiary states. The proposed IDA
credit of US$6.0 million equivalent, to be channeled through CDB, would
finance about 46% of total project costs, including about 542 of foreign
costs. (See details of the proposed IDA credit features in Annex 19). The



- 15 -
CDB would lend separately to the project beneficiary states a total sum of
US$2.8 million to finance about 22Z of the total estimated project costst
including about 24% of the foreign exchange costs; the OPEC Fund would lend
US$2.3 million which would finance 191 of total project costs, including
22% of foreign costs. A condition for effectiveness of the proposed IDA
credit would be that all conditions for effectiveness of the corresponding
OPEC Fund loan agreements, other than effectiveness of the corresponding
IDA credit agroement or of the CDB loan agreements, have been met (para 4.2
(c)). (The OPEC Fund Governing Board approved its portion of the project
loan on November 19, 1986). The remaining project costs would be financed
by the beneficiary state Governments. Financing details are given in Annex
9, Table 1.
3.15     As in the case of the proposed project's recurrent costs, the
project beneficiary states' abilities to contribute their shares of the
project's capital costs during the proposed project's implementation
period, FY1988 through 1993, will depend on their continued willingness to
attribute to the project a high priority In their budgetary plans and to
arrange their investments accordingly within tho public sector during the
project Implementation period. However, a portion of local Implementation
costs (local project manager, professional support staff, and, in some
cases, local architects) are for individuals already employed by the
respective governments and thus will require, for the most part, only
adjustments and reassignment of existing staff. The project boneficiary
states' share.of the proposed project's capital cost, about US$1.7 million
on a regional basis (including contingencies) and to be contributed over
the next six years, would amount to an average of about US$60,000 per year
per country. This would be equivalent (on the bais of their average 1983-
84 budgetary data) to less than 41 of their current annual capital
expenditure. While this indicates that there should be no serious problem
for the beneficiary states to meet their shares, there may be some
difficulty in individual country cases. Should such problems arise, IDA
would review them in its nnual economic dialogue with the countries and
during project supervision to ensure that budget allocations are made in
advance for this purpose. Furthermore, CDB sub-loan agreements with the
countries would require assurances from their respective governments that
adequate counterpart funds for project implementation would be provided in
each annual budget.
Commitment Fees
3 16     To achieve the project's objective It is essential that the credit
become effective for the majority of the countries concerned as rapidly as
possible. The credit would become effective when at least three countries
have completed the general conditions for credit effectiveness, the
technical assistance firm has been contracted, and the
architect/construction engineer formally appointed (para. 3 11).  Countries
which have not met these conditions by September 30, 1987 would bo dropped
from the project and their credit allocations cancelled (para 3.12).  To
avoid penalizing fast moving countries, which could not draw upon the
credit resources because of administrative delays in other countries, it is
recommended that the commitment fee be charged only upon credit
effectiveness, as was the case under the Third CDB Project (Cr. 1364-CRG),
or on a date 210 days after the board presentation date, whichever is
earlier.



- 16 -
CDBt The Intermediary Borrower
3.17     The Caribbean Development Bank would be the Intermediary Borrower
of the proposed IDA credit and would relend the credit proceeds to the
beneficiary states under IDA terms, except that the beneficiary states'
payments to CDB would be made on a quarterly basis. The legal framework
(described in Annex 19) would be similar to the pattern established under
the previous IDA credit to CDB (Cr. 1364-CRG, May 1983). Past experience
in lending to CDB is described in Annex 18. The CDB, established in 1970,
has matured into a capable regional development bank. It has a
particularly important role to play in chanelling external resources to
countries like those in the OECS which experience problems in mobilizing
resources directly because of their small size. The economic difficulties
of some member countries led them to accumulate arrears to CDB; to deal
with the situation, CDB has adopted appropriate policies on suspension of
disbursements, non-accrual and provisioning. Only iwo countries are
currently subject to such mea3ures and CDB's strong capital base and
abundant liquidity should allow it to weather the difficulty. In
consultation with IDA, CDB is in the process of taking measures to
strengthen its policies and procedures, particularly in supervision and
portfolio control aspects. In this regard, CDB adopted on March 20, 1987 a
revised supervision manual and developed and successfully tested a new
divisional portfolio review system. Adoption of these measures, provision
of the technical assistance consultants, and establishment of the PIT in
the CDI, should enable CDB to act as an effective coordinating agency for
the project. Additional descriptive information on CDB is included in
Annex 20.
Implementation and Supervision
3.18     Each country would be fully responsible for implementing, with
advice and assistance as appropriate from the project's technical
consultants (para 3.11), its respective in-country components, and each has
appointed a local Project Manager (PM) for this purpose (para 3.20). CDB
would be responsible for coordination and supervision of the overall
project, including implementation of the regional component; i.e.,
technical assistance, procurement, and implementation, in conjunction with
the OECS Secretariat, of the proposed RTB (para 3.8). The CDB has
established for this purpose the PIT (para 3.11), headed by a full-time,
IDA approved, Project Coordinator (PC) reporting administratively to the
Senior Manager of the CDB's Project Services Division (PSD) in the Projects
Department, and comprising, in addition to the PC, the Senior Manager of
PSD an architect/construction engineer from CDB's Infrastructure Division,
and the technical consultants to be contracted under the project. CDB, as
agert for the project count:ies, would arrange for procurement of furniture
and equipment, with each decision in this respect being made only after the
local PMs have been given two weeks to object. The same procedure would be
used in contracting the technical assistance firm. The PC would be
responsible for planning and programming of consultant ictivities,
coordinating with local Project Managers, budgeting project credit funds,
making field visits to assess effectiveness of implementation, and
resolving outstanding issues, as necessary. As current project supervision
activities in CDB are a normal function of its Project Services Division,
the Division's capabilities in this regard would be enhanced through its
PIT responsibilities under the project. The Project Coordinator would be



- 17 -
the main point of contact between IDA and the project beneficiary states
for all of the project's country related matters. In this regard, the
Project Coordinator would maintain strong communication and working
linkages with the individual Project Managers in each of the project
countries. Uader this arrangement, IDA would retain normal supervision
responsibility to help ensure that resources allocated for the project are
used effectively. Any subsequent replacement of the Project Coordinator
would be subject to IDA concurrence. To assist the Project Coordinator and
project consultant advisors, two support staff (one full-time and one part-
time for a total of 90 staff-months) would be included in the PIT. Costs
of the Project Coordinator and support staff services would be shared by
the project beneficiary states as part of the regional component.
3.19     The project consultants (VTE advisor, education finance
specialist, procurement specialist, and manpo%ler specialist), and the
project architect/construction engineer, working under direction of the
Project Coordinator, would provide leadership and advice to the
beneficiary states on project implementation and would represent the CDB in
project supervision. The project architect/construction engineer would
review and approve construction plans and be responsible for supervision
(from an overall project viewpoint) of all project civil works.
Individual country consultants would provide on-site supervision of project
construction as a normal part of their architectural contract. The project
procurement advisor (para. 3.11) with assistance from project managers in
the respective countries, would be responsible for assisting the countries
in preparing procurement lists and specifications of all furniture and
equipment for institutional expansion and improvement and for handling
subsequent procurement of all subproject goods and PIT services. The
Project Coordinator would coordinate activities of all the consultants and
review for approval project-related procurement actions by the project's
procurement advisor. The interaction of the technical assistance
consultants and IDA staff with the various CDB staff; i.e., architects,
procurement staff, disbursement staff, project supervision staff, etc. is
designed to enhance CDB's institutional capability for project lending and
esupervision.  Though CDB would have overall supervision responsibility, IDA
and CDB would collaborate closely in this aspect of project implementation.
After a joint IDA/CDB initial start-up mission, joint supervision missions
would be conducted annually, normally led by CDB project supervision staff
with support from IDA staff. Interim supervision visits would be made by
CDB staff as appropriate and necessary.
3.20     Each project beneficiary state has appointed a local Project
Manager (with qualifications acceptable to CDB and IDA) who would be
responsible for project implementation in the respective country concerned,
with direct line authority from the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Education. Subsequent appointments of individuals to the position of
Project Manager would be subject to the same conditions as the initial
appointment; i.e., qualifications acceptable to CDB and IDA. This
requirement would appear in the agreements between CDB and each project
country. The Project Managers would be responsible fort (a) ensuring that
necessary annual budgetary appropriations are requested for the project
component in the country concerned; (b) liaising with the CDB Project
Coordinator; (c) overseeing development of architectural designs, (d)



- 18 -
approving equipment proposals made by the PIT for equipment, furniture, and
consultant services; (e) assisting, as necessary, the procurement
specialist on matters of procurement and installation of relevant equipment
and furniture; (f) *waintaining local financial records and preparing
withdrawal appiications for the CDB to request disbursements from the IDA
credit proceeds; (g) timely recruitment of local staff; and (h) nomination
of fellowship candidates.
3.21     The project preparation work in all five project beneficiary
statea is well advanced. Preliminary architectural drawings for now
construction and extension works have been completed and are satisfactory
to IDA.   All new construction would be located close to existing buildings
and acquisition of new sites will not be required. Preliminary furniture
and equipment lists and the outline specifications have been prepared.
Detailed final lists, specifications, and bidding documents would be
completed after the vocational technical education advisor and the
procurement specialist begin employment. These implementation activities
are expected to be carried out in accordance with an Action Plan for
Project Implementation (Annex 14) and an Implementation Schedule (Annex
15), both of which have been agreed by IDS.  The specific country
subprojects (Annex 1) are essentially self-contained and, while it is
desirable to maintain the project components intact in all five project
beneficiary states, the deletion of one or two country subprojects would
not seriously harm the overall project. However, a condition for
effectiveness of the IDA credit would be evidence of Government
authorization for subproject execution, effectiveness of at least three of
the CDB subloan agreements with the project beneficiary states in order to
ensure achievement of regional project objectives, and assignment of CDB's
rights under such loan agreements to IDA (para. 4.2(a)).
3.22     The proposed project would have an implementation period of six
years. The project would have no large-scale construction items (mostly
renovation/extensions), though it would involve several parties and levels
of action and the beneficiary states have had limited experience with IDA
project requirements. On the other hand, all proposed project items are to
an advanced stage of preparation, the CDB Project Coordinator and the
architect are experienced in project work, and experienced consultants will
be employed under the project to assist the countries with major
implementation tasks. Furthermore, the beneficiary country Governments
have expressed a strong desire to implement the project quickly.
Considering these factors, the proposed six-year implementation period,
though less than the Region profile of eight years, is considered
reasonable. On that basis, project completion would be June 30, 1993 and
the closing date would be set at December 31, 1993.
Procurement
3.23     Contracts for eivil works (the largest eopected to be in the order
of US$800,000) would be awarded by individual countries under local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA which would allow
foreign contractors to compete. Civil works contracts in excess of
US$500,000 would require prior review and approval by IDA. Eauisment,
furniture and other materials to be procured would be grouped, to the
extent possible, to form attractive bid packages and would be procured in
accordance with CDB procurement guidelines. Bid evaluati,n would be



- 19 -
accomplished by the PITICDB procurement specialist(s) after which the
procurement recommendations would be submitted to the five local project
managers who would be given 2 weeks to express objections, if any.
Contracts for technical assistance would be awarded in conformity with IDA
Guidelines for the hiring of consultants with each country having a
reasonable time period to object to proposed technical assistance firms. A
sumary of the proposed procurement arrangements is included in Annex 10.
Disbursements
3.24     The OPEC Fund financing of project civil works will cover
US$500,000 equivalent in construction costs for each of the 5 participating
countries. The proposed IDA credit disbursement for civil works would be
made on the basis of 1002 for all construction costs beyond the OPEC Fund
allocation up to the limit of total project funds allocated for civil works
of each project component in each respective country. The remainder of the
proposed IDA credit would be disbursed on the basis of 100 percent for
fellowships, the PITt and consultants (Annex 9, Table 1). CDB financing
would cover 100l of project goods. Disbursements against civil works and
fellowship contracts with a value up to US$20,000 would be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Related documents would be retained by
CDB and the beneficiary states, as appropriate, for review by IDA staff
during supervision visits. Withdrawal requests for all other expenditures
would be fully documented. Annex 11 includes the estimated schedule of
disbursement by IDA fiscal years. To facilitate timely withdrawal of the
credit proceeds, CDB would open, maintain, and operate a Special Account
(including six sub-accounts) with a bank acceptable to IDA and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.1(b)). Based on the estimated
disbursement schedule, the initial amount of deposit to the Special Account
would be US$600,000.
Accountinz. Auditing and Evaluation
3.25     Each project beneficiary state would maintain a separate budget
account for its subproject's civil works component. Procurement of
equipment, furniture, other materials and technical assistance would be
processed centrally by the procurement advisor in the PIT/CDB. Project
accounts in CDB and in each country would be audited by independent
auditors, acceptable to CDB and IDA, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistent with the Bank/IDA March 1982 Guidelines.
CDB would provide to IDA, within six months after the end of each fiscal
year, an audit report covering each country's project account(s) and the
Project Special Account, including a separate opinion by the auditor on
disbursements against statements of expenditure (para 4.1(c).
3.26     To assist in determining the effectiveness of project
Implementation procedures and the success of project training programs, the
CDB and IDA would make an Interim assessment of project implementation
performance on or about September 30, 1990 as part of a joint mid-term
review mission (para. 4.1(d)).  The CDB Project Coordinator would draw upon
project consultants and the proposed Regional Training Board to assist in
designing and implementing a project monitoring and evaluation program for
the project beneficiary states.



- 20 -
Project Benefits and Risks
3.27     The proposed project is expected to make significant contributions
to institutional development in the respective project beneficiary
countries and, perhaps of equal importance, to ioint plannina of regional
training activities in the OECS area. National planning would be
strengthened and regional planning would be initiated to provide a
mechanism for offering selected regional training activities which might be
uneconomical for individual countries to undertake on their own. This
would be accomplished through the provision of a vocational-technical
training advisor and short-term consultants under the project to work with
the participating countries individually and collectively. The regional
design of the project would enable the project beneficiary states to
procure equipment and services cheaper through quantity buying, to share
common services and to pool technical expertise for mutual benefit.
Through such a regional approach, the countries concerned would also
maintain and further develop the eompatibility of their institutions and
policies in the vocational and technical education field, with potential
benefits in terms of labor mobility and cost effectiveness. Quality of
instruction in each country would be improved through upgraded facilities,
suitable equipment and training materials, improved course content, and
upgraded instructors and administrators. Relevancy of instruction would be
Improved through the creation and/or strengthening of National Training
Boards, improving formal institutional contacts with industry, expanding
Job-analysis studies and obtaining feedback of on-the-job performance of
graduates.   Development of a labor market information system in each
country would improve efforts for planning human resources development
activities. The major auantifiable benefits of the project, from a
regional viewpoint, would be an additional annual output of about 65
technicians, 425 semi-skilled workers from secondary schools and 570
upgraded adult workers which would help to meet the requirements of the
labor market. It is estimated that approximately 10 percent of the
training to be provided under the project would be directed toward
developing job skills of the unemployed thus serving the relatively poorer
segments of society within each country. Particularly, the project would
Include training components which would enhance women's employment in
garment-making, commercial cookery, and the tourism-related trades.
3.28     Through its close collaboration with the CDB in financing and
supervision of the proposed project, IDA would extend its institution-
building effort related to CDB through a new sector (vocational/technical
education and training). By working together with IDA steff, the CDB staff
would gain experience in dealing with a relatively comprehensive
vocational-technical education project--an experience which could be of
value should CDB decide to pursue lending in the education sector in the
future.
3.29     The risks associated with the execution of the proposed project
are based on the fact that successful implementation of the project would
require coordinated efforts within the five project beneficiary states and
by CDB. While project components in each country would be essentially
self-contained, all beneficiary states would share common procurement and
technical assistance under the project. The risks ares (a) there is a
possibility that only 3 or 4 of the 5 countries may ultimately participate



- 21 -
in the project, in which case, the full benefits anticipated would not be
realized and (b) there may be considerable variability in implementation
rates among the countries, thereby causing delays in implementation of
project activities common to all of the beneficiary states, particularly,
technical assistance and procurement of goods. While delays due to project
implementation complexities cannot be ruled out, the probability of less
than 5 countries participating is low due to the strong commitment
expressed by all countries to it. Also, the expected strong leadership
from the Project Team in the CDB would help to minimize any
implementation/management problems.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1      During negotiations, agreement was reached with CDB on the
following:
(a) terms of reference for the proposed technical assistance
specialistlagencies; qualifications and criteria for selection of
fellowship candidates; a plan and schedule for fellowship training;
qualifications for the Project Coordinator and the local Project
Managers; and dates for actual employment of the technical
assistance specialistiagencies after credit effectiveness (para.
3.11);
(b) CDB opening and maintaining a Special Account with a bank
acceptable to IDA and on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(para 3.24);
(c) CDB providing to IDA, within six mothes after the end of each
fiscal year, an audit report covering each country's project
account(s) and the Project Special Aceount, including a separate
opinion by the auditor on disbursements against statwaents of
expenditure (para. 3.25);
(d) CDB and IDA, making an interim assessment of project implementation
performance on or about September 30, 1990 as part of a joint mid-
term review mission (para. 3.26);
(e)  the statement CDB provided to IDA describing each country's policy
on Implementing cost saving measures in the education sector (para.
3.10); and
(f) feasibility studies on cost-savings and cost-recovery possibilities
to be completed and provided to CDB and IDA for their comments by
December 31, 1988 (para. 3.10).
4.2      Conditions for credit effectiveness would be:
(a) evidence of Government authorisation for subproject execution,
effectiveness of at least three of the CDB sub-loan agreements with
the project beneficiary states in order to ensure achievements of
regional project objectives, and assignment of CDBIs rights under
such sub-loan agreements to IDA (para. 3.21);



- z2 -
(b) CDB selection and country approval of the tochnical assistance firm
and confirmation of appointment of the CDB architect/construction
engineer (par&. 3.11); and
(c) that all conditions for effectiveness of the corresponding OPEC
Fund loan agreements, other than effoutiveness of the corresponding
IDA credit agreement or of the CDB loan agreements, have been met
(para 3.14).
4.3      Subject to the above stated conditions, the proposed project
provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$6.0 million (SDR 4.8
million) to the Caribbean Develo ment Bank for on-lending, under terms
described in this report, to the countries of Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts
and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines.



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 7
OECS REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Descriptions of Individual Country Subproiects
1.       In the following paragraphs, various components of the proposed
regional project (subprojects) have been kres.nted in their particular
project beneficiary country contexts. Limited information on the economic
and education sectors in each country has been included, as necessary, to
place each subproject within the overall sectoral context.
A. Dominica
2.       Dominica a moderately small island country of approximatoly 290
square miles, has a population of 76,500 with a labor force estimated at
30,500. Active employment currently stands at just under 25,000, leaving
about 18 percent outside the economically productive sector. Wage levels
remain relatively low compared with other Caribbean and most western
industrialized countries. Heavily dependent on agriculture, Dominica has
experienced severe economic difficulties in recent years. The devastation
by Hurricane David in August 1979, closely followed by Hurricane Frederick
and Hurricane Allen in August 1980, resulted in significant declines in
real GDP in 1979 and 1980. The country is still recovering from these
disasters. The basic development goal is to harness the economy's
productive potential, to stimulate increasing income and exports and to
create opportunities for employment. To help achieve this long-term goal,
the Government is seeking to improve and reform the education and training
system to make its graduates more suitable for employment.
3.       The Government of Dominica has set for future development of its
education sector clear objectives and guidelines, focusing on adapting the
system to meeting perceived emerging national needs and to iwproving those
key factors within the system which influence educational outcomes; i.e.,
curricula, teaching methodology, equipment, and facilities. The country
has 58 primary schools, 6 junior secondary schools, 2 senior secondary
schools, a teachers college, a technical college, and a sixth form (general
college) program. Although the educational level of Dominica's population
is fairly high, the education system still falls short in meeting the
current training needs of the economy, which are mainly in the areas of
technical and commercial skills. In the aftermath of a recently
implemented program to increase the literacy rate among its population, the
Government, with assistance from the Caribbean Examination Council (CXC),
is now attempting to improve the quality of education and training through
reforms in teaching methodology, curricula, and facilities. Special
emphasis is being placed upon developing ties with local enterprises and
upon diversification of the system to generate greater occupational
awareness among young people and to better equip youth and young adults for
successful participation in the labor force.



- 24 -
AMX I
Page 2 of 7
4.       The proposed project would be consistent with the Government's
foregoing objectives and program for improving quality In its
technical/vocational education and training system. It would provide for
limited renovation of the training facilities of Clifton Dupigney Technical
College, together with the vocational blocks of two senior secondary
schools (Goodwill and Portsmouth) and six junior secondary schools (Grand
Bay, Castle Bruce, Portsmouth, Marigot Weir, St. Joseph, and Goodwill).
Improved and updated equipment would be provided for all the schools listod
above. Fellowship training would be provided in the Caribbean region
(Jamaica) for 10 vocational education instructors (90 staff-months) and 8
vocational supervisors (24 staff-months). Internhips abroad would be
provided for 4 technical college instructors (12 staff-months).
5.       Much of the emphasis In the Dominica subproject would be on
improving the quality and expanding the capacity of prevocational education
programs at the luior secondarY school level.  It is expected that those
who complete this level of *ducation, rather than going directly to the
labor market, would go on for specialized training in the socondary
vocational education programs, or eventually, in the technical colleges.
It is recognised, however, that some students will leave the system prior
to completion and enter the labor market as semi-skilled or even unskilled
workers, doeending on their points of exit.
6*       At the secondary and post-secondarv levels, the main emphasis
would be on improving quality and output (rather than xpanding physical
facilities). Output from both levels combined would be increased by about
70 graduates (30 percent) per year, due mainly to expected increases in
instructional efficiency. All schools listed in para. 4 above would
provide evening courses fer inservice training for adults. The increased
number of adults to be served is estimated to be about 160 per year
(representing an increase of 80 percent).
7.       Implementation of the Dominica subproject would require no
increase in instructional staff of the Technical College. Vocational staff
of the senior secondary schools would have to be increased by 4 persons and
the junior secondary sebools by 5 persons. Additional recurrent cost to be
incurred (EC$241,000) are estimated to be 1.6 percent of Dominica's  annual
education budget and 0*3 percent of the Governmental budget. While the
amount involved Is not insignificant, it can be met particularly if
appropriate cost-reduction/cost-recovery measures are implemented (para.
3 13).
D. Grenada
8.       Grenada, has a land area of 116 square miles and an estimated
population of 92,000.  Approximately 28,000 of its almost 34,000 labor
force is actively employed, leaving an unemployment rate of about 17
percent. The country's soil condition and abundant rainfall make the
island well-suited for growing tropical crops   Thus, revitalisation of
agriculture is a keystone of Governmnat efforts to promote economic growth.
Further development of tourism and manufacturing sectors Is also a high
priority in the Government's economic growth program. xports of goods and
services are projected to rise by nearly 50 percent in real terms betwoen



- 25 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 7
1984 and 1990 because of expected higher production of cocoa and bananas,
recovery of exports of manufacturers, and a sharp increase in tourist
arrivals expected to begin in 1987. Improved education and training is a
key element in the co1Jtry's development plans.
9.       Grenada's education and training system, in some ways, is less
advanced than those in some other OECS countries though efforts are being
made toward improvement with some assistance from the Caribbean Examination
Council (CXC). In addition, special linkages are being established with
employers for increased relevance of instruction. The country has 64
primary schools, 4 junior secondary schools, 17 senior secondary schools
(which also include the lower secondary grades), a technical and vocational
institute, a teachers college, a domestic arts institute, and an institute
for further education (general college).
10.      A manpower survey conducted in 1984 by the Grenada Ministry of
Planning found that a number of occupational skills important to the
country and its development were in very short supply. Prime aong these
were skilled worker and technician level skills in the areas of
electricity, electronics, plumbing, welding, and building construction.
The same survey revealed that the education system was not producing
graduates with these skills on the scale required for the country's medium-
and long-term industrial development.
11.      The proposed project would help move tho country's education
system toward a more work-oriented education and training program. The
Grenada subproject would include limited renovation for the Grenada
Technical and Vocational Institute (GTVI) and the Domestic Arts Institute
(DAI), both located at Tanteen, St. Georges, with new furniture and
equipment to complement those which already exist in the two instAtutes.
The subproject would also include construction, furniture, and equipment
for a Multipurpose Training Center (MTC) at La Fortune, in St. Patrick
parish. Fellowship training would be provided in the Caribbean region
(Jamaica) for 16 Instructors (144 staff-months), to be shared by candidates
from the aforementioned three institutions.
12.      The GTVI and DAI would focus primarily on Improving the quality of
their existing programs. GTVI's capacity would be increased by only 10
graduates per year, to a total of 108, as a result of adding a program in
electricity installation. The DAI would also expand its output only
slightly by increasing output in its home management program by 5 graduates
per year. No additional instructional staff would be required for these
two institutions. As the MTC would be a new institution, it would require
8 new staff members. Additional recurrent costs which Grenada would incur
by implementation of the subproject (EC$186,000) would be 2.3 percent of
the annual education budget and 0.4 percont of the annual Governmental
budget. This additional cost should be manageable.
C. St. Kitte and Nevis
13.      St. Kitts and Nevis has a combined land area of 104 square miles
and a total population estimated at 46,000. The labor force of the two-
island country includes about 17,000 individuals of whom approximately
13,500 are thought to be actively employed. The first half of the current



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
decade has seen a relatively sharp decline of employment in the sugar
industry (-27.7 percent) with a compensating increase in manufacturing
(28.7 percent). If projected expansion plans within the electronic
assembly and garment subsectors materialize, the level of unemployment
should decrease substantially. The country, as a result of direct policy
initiatives by the Government, has enjoyed considerable success in
attracting enclave manufacturing activities. These operations includo
garment and shoe production, electronic component assembly, and data
processing activities. Furthermore, a number of smaller units (up to 25
employees) have been established over the past three years by local
entrepreneurs in metal processing, handicrafts, furniture, pottery, and
boat building and repair. The Government hopes to strengthen the economy
as a whole by giving special attention to the non-sugar sector. It is
recognized that achievement of this goal will require improvements in the
education and training system.
14.      St. Kitts and Nevis has a school system whose quantitative
performance is unusually high when compared with those in many other
similar countries. It also is making improvements, with assistance from
the Caribbean Examination Council, in the quality of educational and
articulation among grade levels. The country has ten years of compulsory
education, post-primary enrollment is as large as primary enrollment, gross
enrollment ratio is over 100 percent for the 6-15 years age group; there is
equal participation of boys and girls In the education system; and total
enrollment is equivalent to about 30 percent of the population. The
country has 31 primary schools, 6 secondary schools, two sixth form
colleges, a teachers college, and a technical college.
15.      In order to enable the country to meet skilled and semi-skilled
manpower needs, the proposed project would include for St. Kitts and Nevis
construction of classrooms and shops for two junior secondary school
multipurpose training centers (one in St. Kitts and the other in Nevis) and
furniture and equipment for these two schools plus the St. Kitts Technical
College in St. Kitts. There would also be construction of a new Hotel
Training Unit for the technical college. Fellowships would be provided for
10 vocational instructors (90 staff months), 2 supervisors (8 staff months)
and one maintenanee technician (9 staff months). The capacity of the
technical college would be expanded from an average 130 at present to 150
graduates per year. The two nultipurpose training centers would increase
their outputs from a combined total of 245 at present to 360 students. The
number of additional teachers to be required would be one technical college
instructor and 8 teachers for the multipurpose training centers.
Additional recurrent costs to result from Implementation of the St. Kitts
and Nevis subproject (EC$360,000) are estimated to be equivalent to about
3.7 percent of the annual education budget and 0.5 percent of the annual
Governmental budget. Thus, the increase in the education budget for St.
Kitts and Nevis would be of considerable magnitude. Benefiting from the
feasibility studies which the proposed project would provide in the project
beneficiary states (para. 3.13), the Government would consider ways to
reduce costs elsewhere in education or to introduce cost-recovery measures
in order to make adequate funds available for the proposed subproject.



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
D. St. Lucia
16.      St. Lucia, with 238 square miles of land area, has a population of
about 131,000. Of its estimated 44,000 labor force, iAbout 33,000 are
thought to be actively employed. A main element of the Government's
strategy for development continues to be diversification of the economy.
Despite some progress in this effort, the economy is still excessively
dependent on agriculture, particularly bananas. Even with a reorganization
and modernization of agriculture, it is recognized that the potential for
creating jobs in this sector is limited. The Government's strategy,
therefore, ib to encourage industry and tourism in order to attain some
balance in the economy. The new industries attracted so far have been
mainly of the assembly type, so their value has been largely in employment
they provide. Moreover, they are dependent on the CARICOM market, whose
recent trade restrictions have had a repressive impact on their
performance. Tourism has experienced impressive growth in recent years and
the Government plans to expand the sector even further as part of the
diversification effort. While the Government is firmly committed to
establishing and implementing new development policies, it has been
hampered by a scarcity of administrative, professional, skilled and semi-
skilled workers. The Government recognizes that the country's education
and training system must be reformed to produce the kinds of trained people
with the skills necessary to implement its development plan.
17.      St. Lucia, during the last two decades, has undergone a rapid
transformation toward improvement in its education system, both
qualitatively and quantitatively. The country now has 82 primary schools,
5 junior secondary schools, 6 senior secondary schools, a sixth form
college, a technical college, a hotel trade school, a teacher training
college, and a technical teacher training college. All tertiary
institutions have been integrated into the Sir Arthur Lewis College, which
also will offer middle-management and first-year university courses.
18.      The Government has taken important steps during the last decade to
correct deficiencies and inadequacies of its education system. These
include raising academic standards, improving the output, atd adjusting the
system's orientation, operation and structure to the emerging needs of the
country. Key actions under these areas have been the creation of new
criteria for student evaluation, new junior and comprehensive secondary
schools, preservice primary ueacher training, and the consolidation of
post-secondary institutions. These reforms have contributed to a greater
awareness and acceptance of the need for change and have laid the
groundwork for more fundamental reforms which are envisioned, particularly
in the areas of post-secondary education, teacher training, and
occupational education.
19.      The proposed project would conform with the Government's plans for
expanding and Improving the quality of work-oriented education and
training. It would provide for St. Lucia construction of new classrooms
and laboratory/shop buildings for the Morne Fortune Technical College
adjacent to others on space already owned by the College. Furniture und
equipment would be provided to complement the new facility. The subproject
would also include construction of 2 new classrooms and a workshop, plus



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 7
renovation of one workshop, for the Vieux Fort Senior Secondary School,
along with appropriate furniture and instructional equipment. Fellowship
training would be provided in the Caribbean region (Jamaica) for 9
vocational instructors and one maintenance technician (90 staff-months),
plus one vocational education supervisor (4 staff months). In addition,
internships abroad would be provided for 5 technical college instructors
(15 staff-months).
20.      Although increased quality in training would be of foremost
concern in the implementation of this subproject, expanded capacity in
output will also be significant. The annual capacity of the Vieux Fort
Secondary School vocational program would be increased from 140 at present
to 220, while the technical college annual output would increase from 88 at
present to 162. Implementation of the proposed subproject would require 7
additional secondary school staff and 11 technical college staff.
Additional recurrent costs to result from implementation of the subproject
(EC$641,000) aro estimated to be 2.3 percent of the annual education budget
and 0.5 percent Lf the Governmental annual budget. While these percentages
are not insignificant for St. Lucia, they should be manageable,
particularly with some cost-saving and cost-recovery measures to be taken
in the education sector.
S. St. Vincent and the Grenadines
21.      St. Vincent and the Grenadines is a small country of several
islands with a total land area of 150 square miles and a population of
about 114,000 people. Its labor force is estimated to be about 42,000 of
whom 34,000 are thought to be actively employed. Though the economy
experienced a slow-down in the early part of the present decade, there have
been some improvements since 1983. Continued improvement in the economy
and ultimate achievement of economic growth rate projections for the long-
term will require expansion of activities in the agriculture, export
manufacturing and tourism sectors. The Government plans to encourage
development of the private sector in the industrialization process in an
effort to reduce unemployment. Development of the education and training
sector is seen as a key ingrediint of industrialization within the country.
22.      As is the;case with other countries in the OECS region, St.
Vincent and the Grenadines is attempting, through several measures,
including assistance from the Caribbean Examination Council, to increase
the quality of its education and training system. It is concerned about
preparing its youth for contributing positively to society; thus, the
development of employment skills among its young people is a key element in
the Government's plans for educational reform.
23.      The proposed project would assist the Government In achieving the
goal of having a highly skilled labor force with more individuals prepared
to participate actively in it. The St. Vincent and the Grenadines
subproject would include limited renovation of teaching facilities in the
St. Vincent Technical College, located in Arnoo Vale, the Girls Business
School in Kingston, and Richmond Hill Home Economics Center. In addition,
furniture and equipment would be provided to complement those which already
exist in these schools. Construction, furniture and equipment would be



- 29 -
AKEX I1
Page 7 of 7
included for 2 new multipurpose training centers to be located in Carapan
and Goorgetown, for serving junior secondary feeder schools. Fellowship
training would be provided in the Caribbean region (Jamaica) for 12
vocational instructors (108 staff-months), 5 vocational andlor technical
supervisors (20 staff-months), and 2 equipment maintenance technicians (18
staff-months) who would service and maintain instructional equipment of all
vocational and technical schools in the country.
24.      Output of the tecbnical college would be lncreaed by about 30
graduates per year, with the addition of new progrms in electrical
installation and radio-television repair and by expanding the existing
business studies program. The Home Economics Center would doublo its
output to about 240 individuals per year by expanding training programs in
foods and nutrition and clothing and textiles, supporting expected
increased employment in tourism and the garment industries. No additional
instructors would be required for the Technical College, Home Economics
Center, and Girls Business School, although tho 2 now multipurpose training
centers would need a total of 12 teachers. Additional recurrent costs to
be gonerated for St. Vincent and the Grenadines by the proposod subproject
(EC$134,000) would be 2.1 percent of the annual education budget and 0.4
percent of the annual Governmental budget. This additional cost should be
manageable.



"      -lAt     q9                                    11?~9     -        qiOl         94          -         -    9'           1? 0P.131'l                It            Now
-    S         59          99                      of0  S     39        Vs         19    at   It   IT       Aqiw         V         0316     P3       Al   I01 9 996)919
0991      it 4             Si                                           Ss 9   91  15I09       9 1116          391i         9*1      0131.*I   Olt     09            .A31
-  qOl  sqs:        -            ~~        ~~~    ~  ~~~~- .t09?                   -       -     -     90.91       *9V1    9039.   49'l        Lit          910390
010            %            9          1 999                  Ci        99                                                  S., 1 9   ,il t   193 19  0                1
We'         It        Is          Is          (3                     Ss9       09         01Sot ft1        1 it        1           1.9   OWlt   II           91            9111W
awe.         9)      jaIl         999          WItZ    Alit          VA      Am94          09;  *I  063  of9        AqI,1         *AV  a       sgL  1  9.1    #1           99903
-      -       911               joqee                -    -    -        1q913    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~qIw  11(9  S~~~~~~0 t  t      999MW
iq04t       19     A.q9t           191                                St    dm913          t9    it   I      t99      31,13       A91       1199     V9V      it        03695)
W45  91   4,   99         9'3         91         -         103~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~So  it    93  1 I    19  PSt    dt'      otI 4W9  03s3o99'A 
911    t        019         96          ?            1          I        O         UO     3 519iIs                          *'        10)    .         0,S   -an9  mum"01
19811'S!  11    .q3*1         Sb            -       19           91    Am9111         91       -       -            iI        irk       -St 9                             "W9
O0*91  1?       09           St~o        11t         11        JI        14         14    11   it   09          )1-i         9'S    94)9'?  dit        of         9361 vim0
^ftIt     A          nSt   49                    *S        3          -1        8*6 I      I -   -     S -   -        Vk-IZ      Aqt1    q0931  *lei    139                V23
1904'??              "S           *I01    I.qIl  --        *q9                "qLi          VI    H -        -                 qirl  qP      915')   voil   St               lawn
deVil          ~~~            ~~Ail         -         U:        -        AlI  o9-                     -9       *311        sP9"       tsi     913     W994f
AN0         A1t          inS            3        sit        005       A001       904   got 0.3  .1'o    0.P3?            WS.,'        39? ?           t
-    9         It          JA           -          9          49        60       qIS     I   '    Ot19         PSI         ltI      Uti'?   t'3t    St5395
qU't  It      01          St~~~~~~o     -       919                A m99         03     391t99              WC:         cVI       069      96      id            195369
Solt        01        1           It          %'3         9          0*         4         91    Co  -    -           0'S)        9'*    q9*    991 ISs                    )9201
Oro         8?                    It                      et3 9      et        It         9?    St   650             VI$          rz       OK1      5% 
ACID        St        4           9           Wet8         99        09        S1                       etl 1191     9')          S's    901    q9-1        St         913*0
"It?        91                                rot9*StIIt                       It         at1fi 91  16    19         931           9I,     W5       *,I     Oil            9*935
Is 9                                                                 AiS  9   041   1   4  W  1114 911        413           Vft      Ott    C1'S   15           49013
IOS   48         1          1          9.8           1          9         1         9 AW91.IZ                     -        se.9      16;6    ('1       It             9301
-           1.81Aft-4908?                                    sS       199          90 ..19I                                 we1       Vtt    0.0      It             9339
it0.  1       &91Adq%                                                              -           -     -       1't?l       AmVe        Uit      63t      8*               am
Awl                   at                       WI$        an         0,        sill        6)-                        91't1al  rt  dn99'     6W1     99       9
Awl.         to        I I         K           0911        St 99                it 89     qIl          t1119           VIIt        Oslo    Ol8    q9'1        43
Oro         et        61          to          rot         at         is        05       Q99      9    818o            l'43         SIS    VW0    qi*t        Is                 111
0.1I        a3        of          43          4'?I        No         09        SS       q99          1     Do        I'll        6890   q199      qts       DI5            "aft
we'         as        et          ofi                     01         Ii         t       q91t      0    - -            9'9?1        *'t    Olt?    46         to               NlV2
we         .?                    $1      Vto              6t         to       qS"       "4       919339Ot             *.tl9                 OK@9    P9       0593 I
WI          88       98          gAS         qVs         q4t        qw        QU        901    qO   q9    13           03          L'S     on1      S."      to9
-  -  -          -              -         6?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I            -       o   act1.9          .9'8?1         *i       will   ro        at         3393SH
of.   6         01          69            I         I          8        to        09t    91   9199             fli 0.93     ('9        q 43'19'       19             VW"39
W9*1        is        9           83          VI          69         et        39        u       u     I gIl 11 1 1    1           S1%    906      qI'S      toSw
41903         a5        93i         W1          V0         %t           11     599         01      o 41     1           a,"1        art9      01       590     Id         WP inOP
S9'0        99,      I93         6     919      1I        Iv        WA1        19        SS      ill  61   1'         I'll       *.1'   9119       9981      39VIII
W9W         III       03         409           lt9                   SS        it 39     0      "I SVIt               4331         VI      0u9      9U0      99            408
09'S        a         91          11                                 et 41               So      It 59  38489         el"5        molt     191    990,'      Of             Boom
WI0         It       at 91        r1                     * it        it       so         St?     It  W9 1           0.43        '.98'     Ill      Vt9    to 
OPII  -  94    .0113           -         -         9003      gaS       914     -    -~~~~~~ow  -   OS'S           9'9     310?'?   3.39    41I       Ir# 89133
Wu   91  CI            .          Do                      It 3        at      not 9103941                                         et$ '   9    04S999
p  - i -         -    ,i      tit         (-I         -6         -c        -1        -9           -          -      -1                             -   3- 
I                              99vt  3356AIN  999533  J11153if 94 ul 1093913 1  43339d3  "041334  bY'                 MW
I                                ~          ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I            6I391Aulw ,'                     I         I                    I
SOW~W9I6TO'rtT'f T A'WZIUO
lolzrova moi.tvonai mimmu3J aNY WNOIIVOOA lVNoImil SDOR
7 g tMN



'MO&a W       t       PM so             WI s- posmt et So _t      pow-- -s
*ti-mq  31 dTTRiui Os.6931n is "Ws w9  048 ~1seq    o*f 450in3      moe# eme.au   s,awasiesse us mo.si.iuio  .alsoisof       *V5) Mr
9eWsm   leiii.aoo.I as33  ass"-Ims P"Vemom sm " ov%P etps.    iam.ii01 owi.a  P" am l tissea 890  93 PMI 13  *41M0) omwn" $NMIteq    (6)
t    ""_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t - *~*issotn _ ti-ti_'.    s  *t_t .;j  a.  sc;us
*ettv-.l4mw  *1teilemhP 3     poe .us       Aim M sp s4.t___w PMt'  stn ouIOea dew.* ., os           v 'mte ) .- _    tV *tse *oOV    0   .  (1)
'08001*109 _tF _11 gm n .ot. 1-6tt
(1U01ZbAtm  t,tip0   '1-95.3.)
t  *    tms    93m  1.09e as         * a. sw,..o. At * soapt  wt_INNO ,AM   o.  p_  ts.s   ottl  Vt          0369  61 it 6893     SM_   *AO3ma    (g)
00 ""PAN" 1"" "wp"w  Om so wes     *Mo ITOe.s  opt   m w ssi 'mmeu     jobp "I. v           T" *it v"      6 " SO   3M     AaMP65.  (g)
Opole 51 *38'9O PI"93    )5" t1t?l0b  *_Isi _< 1 esor    3 Se    spc v   ot w t% m ise     Ut _   0t _t$  s. opt so Atotto _tW _o  4.6800
os _ssm et uWO  443 PM ,oa  to"e   In moose" lttn eb up   pOm  osttoltOg  ,"_    t44 P  s*-Ms. P9c w                   t oiW l    smV&* _m  -um msor
emit s  WI-i 4 em'ea  si  so" ms. ew    *sO11u9   i-Di,, aopsaI.low Sopas"       "W u"a t. o"ames mo. u se"9 asoa  smoves56 oti  ow, slss ISO0    II0tf`i
o1_   s. _u. 064 0         t_ t_ 0    50 oomce oM tnwu   50 osm et pM   t_.o            tsope i-lila   I_    op t_ ~to #tt cIt so i"    3mt_  o_
*it_oe*P  0 tmss  9 _000          eap.  _ VW 000o10" Noteo.so 'i-   * so 0m11Wp3   "A US .t9)  t     t '50t
,110 0  t* ptSP  *03i- Wmti6S5pg       tW 60 *9"t     _ i n1 t _m t 0010 1m
- * d
333m    00330 . I              9)193 1fl3," _0WI * 4
8163*153303*0Smom      t*e a                *Ut *     m m SUa                                          S       1                    .
aw  3UUt        95315 * 9                         il _mS  * 'tS                                             tsna    69
na            D1931    e 3 w  *                       1 t 1 5 .  _ _w   II                                        Io n  tDurn  ms*--
31 (1S) dOIt    40 AIIII * * t             Ul 33  3* 166 269 .tt                                                  53U U939
NW   0           9?au    Ul 69B    WU aft WU  MOM no*331("   VOl                                               VPK NV o                              les
MM  (O      A*Ms          I ItVW  It                    SS Dow knt V         3       31           1S3iV*OOin
et       It       It        59           CT     9St        to      Cs       SS     31 9t           U'Vo         V*                                   'U'tt
VI       6%       6.93      IU           9%      6*S %t  i  tt   11         (t s       I'S%it*a  At1 V1W *-1 11                                      3
V3       U1       It        tS           o       St        of t     9       ts    of  a   "        rn V        V`                        aim
Art      t-t      9-1       P't                  v?        S  't    0*      al  tlt{   It  K.   wt.             Ut-                     *-"6" tu
M'       tt       VI        r9                   st        it      to       Ui      1  1t  tl    rlil           rtl                     104
'tI      et      t9         if           (l      U1        IS      LW       IV    *I   t   Is    I1tt            O's                               1
s:tl U1           49        ivt          31      9        63       99l   iv   t    9(3it                       9-%       u      g           01001*Stt
Urt        9      (16      (001        (S9       (U         (46    (*s 11    11   (ttt  (9   (9*  ((96          (Vlsi
W1D)    -1)                -DU         -V 1)    -(13       -23    .91)    69)   -6)  9) .-)) -1%)               .931)
9      .        W 1'      it           It 19   6S *      0         ,      to     I        in      to             We
We it   et        Cs                   It~       $I      oil    qu       O a 306           r9l        r9      Wt') S't  U               a m
5'        91    1ON          63        VI        406      9t        MD_o           ofS*1      Vt Wel           dS      91 1't  ri  tl              w"   AL
Wli~ ~~~ p13    4S  0          -       p1 s   99    404           91      WU*              101    -99         6'    vs        a 
witt      ltl     daf    t   VI                            ft       t#        It         Qt a         e@s         e't 40    it     re0   a             "InUlB
i91P94    =         l         -           _                 -. _              -U  t        =   =   =                it t tl m     VII   94son
d4V*        Ol    eIl          99          -       qO               u0H        9    -   -   -         A19        9191      save% I3ll   9*            ViSW
SW         l U               a"                              et1     it       at    It   a             rat        9t  e wt tl3            s          3 3'53.t
91  33        96~~V                St6              oldv   4q91     - -   - -         seat      s.6*a      "S  0' t       o             Omr  a
tt*9    a      tt1           -     r l P3          1         0I      el.      61        lis            *Stt        9$ q0eit   40'1t   to             5  ts
-    .99  -           -        *3~~~~~~6  -     uPS   -   -  -  -    "Wei3                    -    -    (2   64                  own"
t'`       6        a1                              a   t s           46     40U*    VI 9*             rat        d9   i t9tp t           to           wow
W it      to       it        so                   o6        9        S          o        so -    ---  |OVIt     "IV9       9t69 41 s _996
ZB'    so  z flBd
'01_                 S9                                      -        AP,  -                   -te0                                r-      at             am
deP  .9       ai                              get      "'        isool   SI     -        -rPI                 t       -      OK    Os               Vol1
45'sI   918          4         -          1         46*      -       Aw4      -       it  et  it       qVOl       Zir       005%   C's    et            363
Wrl    461       639       63WA'                          oft 699           "    "I9 mu1  Ott         et1**     W99    ou6t   V3,   a                 aim
4'       of      491       vi    4s              4It      si 639            It   fit  as  V"p         Pti    t          4114 9  clt (3     O         ISO"
Ii 141        62         91% 0%               91       1St 61 at                       Ite        Alt        All           dim PL   29%    I      Si
wilt%      6        it                             a  31              63      *1   -     - -93                           403     gVt    9                  a
6W.#1                                                I 6  -- t9 -     64        3 -            -      d.r          49.1    93       %9 49))
IVI  Cl  93  -  9%  1               9       gOt    3143   39    aerOt           *33    S~~~~~~~~o   63%*    its"
W9i       33       9         99                   Cst       99        t     4 a03  05    0    Is*    41'Ot        9(-   409    OgV99   e6s15
eV        i el                          reI       It        00W                     et 906           4            t     *9*9* 9I33
*6t       el       a1        6           *         3     .9          9      64     - 3       9        V)        .*      4099   p1%,   tos          owaIui
OVI  .?  mIt       6         VI       .31        34      3m       -      8?   3   61       VOl6    90.6    on    tale    (9            *W sow"
W9  It     0*         99~~~#    re        9t        of     uO        go*   %I3  .9   st        M9        ill    Qlt,*  Vt    so            931199
wit?               St        of         I's       (9    I 5 It               91    3  o              Vol      a4%     4a *69qP*    39               9302lu
WrI      "I        4?i       It         Vi         4       39I      99     gi           i t  DO      PsI         tt     of1   ,Vt   a9           '130,11W)
6s9       43       at         69        Vs'1       62       24      W*      qutia        a  a"96      1Pa         )*(   qOtI    t-l vaVSV
(93)   ((I)      103)      (33)        (03)      1*)       9)      (4)     it)         (1)         (9)          it)      1      )
(9  NoVU    fu   I   (a)   j94Ev*iIw  now"             (3)    I 8   (943)         8)       36116640   mu""oN    tuft) (3
"3mUamali  -flublss  mu 3030    *392molls'e me.         3We9'1im awl      8*9I 'taUS9Dl3x  amaine So46               a" .33    9443*j5
_gioe             MI&                           mo4V34633j 8"matral~                                     _
z        ;Se                                                  -14



OECS REKNAL VOCAUNAL AND ECHNoL EDAON  PRECT
STAFF APNSAIA REOR
SkurIw d Ih Formal E_oclin SygS 11
Whlnb           Jsnbn                                                          Hsl *%uC iAitO
so_n* S hl 
j1. S_c",AADP 11 k
->   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 11'
GuL      S    1   'a   3   4    5               6    7   6   9   to  11               iz   U
Ago5   6    7   8   9   10  11                12  13  t4  15  16    7                 1w  19
A Caovas mbanco 11at EI ituumoi
O Cua.itA  Exomuion Cowwc ,CXkCO lo                                                              1
.tW9 Ss nO AdiSd SySkm O kmnK oau anai fse OECS co_ tie h&MOM. sinc to  a 0.w a   Ias. *
skuclise aO iswnetcS t.Xes&  a# Wosin I* teao
.S*me sechwWwoe sge pro6 accpdudw who hov n cosrbIta sosndery sho.



-33                            ANNEX 4
OECS REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Staff Anpraisal Report
Comparison of  apower Dmand and Supply During 1987-96
Est.     Total   Total      Est.     Ave. Ann.   Current       xpected
Country     Popula-  labor   Employ-   employ-   Addit.        ann"l       output with
lation   Force   ment       ment8/    DemandbI   Outpt0/    Prop. Pro).c/l/
Dominica    76,500   30,498    24,856    4,526         272         209           282
oretada     92,322   33,713    27,847    3,694         222          97           233
St. Kitts9
Netis     45,4b9   16,824,/  13,459/  1,727          118         98           1Il
St. Lucia  131,413   43,800    32,900    3,536         263          88           342
St. Via./
Gren.     114,350   42,3101/  33,8484/  2,704f/        163        101           140
Totals       -       167,145   123,176   16,181      1,036         625         1,115
Source of Base Data:  conomic &sports by "Jorld Maak
a g astimatod technician/stiKlled/semi-skillld woriter employmat based on .Model by
Zymelman, forocasting 4anpower Demand.
bl Based on 3X economic growth plus 2X attrition and averaed over the 10-year period
1947-96 for existing employment does not consider possible new area of employment.
c/ Ooes not iaclude junior secondary school prevocational outputs.
4/  Derived as 35  of total population - the average percentage for combined figures of
Ood nica, Grenada  nd St. Lucia.
*/ Based on Government estiates of about 202 employment.
f/  Calculated as 8% of employment (the average for other prcojce countries) a  actual
data not available.
3/  Expected output 's greater in some cases than estimated annual additional domand
(based on existiag employment) due to expected now industry starts is those
countries.



- 34 -
ANNEX 5
OECS REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table l Instructor and Fellowship Reouirements
Participating Vocational InstructorM      Techniael Inatructora    Maintenanco Techniciane
Country     Exirt. VWProi. F l low.   Exist. W/Prol. FeIlow.   Exist. W/Pro]. Follow.
Dominica         26      37      18         9       9        4
Grenada          3       11       7        14      14        9
St. Kitte./
Movies       2       14      12        20      21        0        1        1        1
St. Lucia        8       19      1s        18      27        5                 1       1
St. Vlncent/
arenada        9       21      12        21      21        S        1        2       2
Totals          49      of       69        79      92       28        2        4       4
Table 2: Proposed Training Capacity to be Achieved
and Est imated Annual Output Capabilities
Jr.Secondarych.                 d            N   T C          Adult Education
Project        No    Tg.   Ann.    NO Trg  Ann.    o  Trg. Ann.                   Trg.   nn.
Countries     Sch.   Pla.    Out    Sch.   Lies.   out   h     PIe. L Ouls. Ctrs. PI.  put.
Dominica      s      875     440      2      16     190      1  182   92    9   21C  s8e
Gronada        1      1in     125      1      ll    125      1  204 18        8   149 819
St. KItts./
Nevls      2      246     Su       -         ---    --    1 17  118        8   1    220
St. Lucla      -      -       ---      1      140    210      1  297  182    1   180  24
St. Vincent    2      400    6SW       2      17m      6      1  196   75    4   210  8W
Totals        11   1,120   1,626       6      670   6g9       6  977  S25   20   S66  1,489
Existing
Outputs                      645                    16n               460                870
Noet Incres"                  o9                     425                65               56



- 35 -
ANNEX 6
L  m KDS 571K 65 lowUlrd cmictim  UC
EC NNW  V TIWIIitCL Mlltel Taw         WINm
Zc        I 0          kw0 01                    "e1
A  Vl .1                                  2 ?61u*
Lam    O.m's  loW    lwwE    Cuel    Loa  hwFot             1611   izUh    Ct
A. NIIUIC
I. 3m6      L.  IM                          201.6   514.0     1.4         72      2    74.7  19.7   2.T             n2       2
2. NM     #C0_rN OM   KM                    mot   46.e2   4.2             4        2    44.1  177It  m222           4        2
32, In     E       mm   KM                  3.       Wall What.229        n        4   12e1    1.l   424.4          73       4
4* .UAMM                                        .   42l0.    421*0       to0       I       -            l.5 su     to0       I
of 0611DM. MISCt   11UNITl                      -   42*4   462.4         t         2           176.7   176.t        to0      2
it MUINKISIUIS                              114*2        -   1142                  0    42.1       -    42.          -       0
7.11 N    31 "Ml I AUI1TmI                  49l         -   49.l           -       2   to1o          *la.s           -       2
Id.WI       ff1hlI                           1265.2    2.4Wit                6      12   446*6  10605 1,06,6           69      13
a. m
1. 1t   CML t K                             112,5    49.t9  16243         0       2    41.7  146.6   263            so       2
2. 1    tlt5      1DI13 CM                  43.4  1.#1.37  1162.1         72           162.4  465.       712        72       5
St WIM 1IC961         1                      5t1i   264   216.4           49       1    19.1   76.4    9.6          10       1
':FBLIfI 2fW.0   377.o                                                  1t          1             .139.    12.4   to        1
5.1111   AMIC          hh111I1                  -   462.4   42.4        Ute        2       -   176.7    ItJ         100      2
i.o, IUIUE.34J                              114,2       *    114a2                 0    42.2             42.3         -
7. IN 651          ll tram  4111116110     26,6        *   369.0          -       1   142*2       -   142.2         -       I
M-totsl 36111131O 119.7  2,619.4  3m.1                                       70      12   407.7   9.-2  1.377          70      12
t, $T, KIM am mis2
I. 16 10   MM3                               47  t169.    264 a0                   1    174   70.1    67.6          so       I
2:. 51     3   ihIN   co, as. 1111          462,4  1,.2>7  1,7*171        72       6   176.7  417s       16          n       6
3, W T1oo       IN1   cmN.    M             Mot   9662  1.X"2             n        4   140,6  36        499.3      7n        4
4.%  tL  1A IL6K                            52.0   265.0   240.0         30       1    29.3   77n.   9%.   e                I
S* F     _IU                                    *   2woo   290           to0       I       -  16.7    15,?          10       I
*. MUNKIIIIt                                114.2       -    114.2         -       a    42.1       -    42.2         -       0
7. CO1M. UOCT UNt11111                          -   63.2    643.2       1to        2       -  21.2   2.2           149       2
6. 1    t? 9          411111611U            49.6       -     4.3            -      2   151         -   15.1          -       2
sub-low  ST. a11    M     $S                  1.                                                         I a.4 59.2  69  17  413.  6  17
S1. aLUIA
It1.     o 101CRM 11                      1.450 .       k 30 17 1 53244   12      17   539.6 1,426.1  1,975.        73      a
2. f11ltlE 111-Dto       cow                572.4  1W4M16  2.7,2         2n        7   212.4  56.5   71             72       7
3.  _U 3M                                       -   460   466.0          10        I       -  151.1   111.1         to       1
4. mmDM =0   MIUNIStIi                          -  1,26.7  1,126,7       1o        4       -  4n4   491.4          1o        4
1. t1U11n54J11                              114.2 *          U142                  0    42.3       -     4.          -       0
6. in I Itwill Raw    uI S6N                463.*       -   43.0           -      2   179          -   176o.         -       2
1gb-toW  SI. 11114                           2.427,1  7.095,9  9,722.5       is     32   9322'.1            0          73      32
1. no. VSIM  Me 11III
I. 10311CL SUc E                            207.2   626.9  1e036,                 J    76.3  307#.0   21.6          0        2
2. 5119533 11111CI6          S            13.22.2  2.619,0  3970.2       7n       12    12.3   M,5  1,7.6           n       12
3. WuS111 113g                              131.1   15.5   635,           4        2    4.6  194*3   242.0          30       2
I.11N  t10t  JII                            1261t  134.4   460.5         73       2    46.7  12t   170.6            73      2
S. FBLU_I                                       -     2.e   312.0        1to       I       -  1415    141.5        1         1
6. 061M.K  "M0tCl 11111tMll                     - 11.1  1,065.$          14o       4       -  402,0   4020         1ee       4
7.3331K           I                         11_4.2      -   114.2                 0    42.3        -    42.)         -       0
St    CUM         CT IN      T               mt.         -    35.9         -       2   1965        -   191.5         -       2
MM-Total SI,       O        DVINS   MS  "OM  2.146,5 5324.3 7971,1           73     26   1.12.157.2  2.123             n73    2a
Total Iman  c61                                5,716.2 21 .7 20,161,9          71    149 3,223.2 M.9094  ll26.d          n      149
UIsl   CA.imwls                               371.6 2M16*.  3,40162         n       10   322.6  609,8  1132.7         n       1
Pilbes C smmcl                                42*7 I011.*  1440.5           70       1   131.1  374.7   13.1          70       S
tota a C  51                                   0.-s 2040 2 1e06.1              71    115 3a70       3. 12,92.0           n      1s
btil It 1957 15002



IZATO Of EASTERN  CRIItMJ   STAT1E
lECS EBIGW. VCATIMKL M  TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROECT
SuNN    ACCOUM  COST sua
(EC *  mW0l                                (USS '000)
Z Total                                  I Total
Z Foreign kw                             I foiaoie 3.
Local  Foruign  TOt    Exchm_   Costs   Local Forei*n Totl  Exdm*e  Costs
xatmm   zsionaa  in       am    uua        um                m 
t. IMEII    CO"ST
Al CPRiVILlS                        267.5 10,7O.1 13t487.7         10      44   MI 39.3 4,99.4               00     44
go RMITM  AM EUIINEIT 1295.1  510.03 6e475.3                    s0      21   479.7 1,919.6 2,9.3           s      21
C. VE   ML FE                       1705.4        - 19750.0         -      6   641          -   648.1         -      6
el TEIC  AISTnCE
1, FELLOU9IIPS                        - 19075.0 1875.0         10t      6        -  694.4   694.4        100      6
2. CJNLTAMS                           - 2.562.3 295d2.3        t00      8        -  9.0   94.0           1t0      8
3. CETMRL AUIIISTUOIIIN               - 1P458*0 1t458*0       1to       5        -  50.0   540.0         10       5
Sub-TOtal TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE           - 58P95.3  5,895.3       100     19        - 2,183.4 2183.4        100     1f
El LOCAL ASIKIIIISTRTION           2,402*6        - 29402.6                8   689.8       -   889.8         -       8
F. REBJOIW. SERVICES                 571*1        -   571*1         -      2   211.5       -   211.5         -       2
Total IASEAIME COSTS                   S,716.2 21,865.7 30,501.9      ?1    100 3v22B.2 89098.4 119326.6        71    100
Piwsical Continimnci.s                871.6 2 106*6  3,058*2       71      10   322.8   09*.8  1i132.7       71      10
Price Continmncies                    420.7 19011*8  1440*5        70       5   158.0  374.7   533.5         70       5
Tota PECT COSTS                       10016. 2590640 35,000.5         71    115 39M*8 923.0M  2M,982.           71    1IS
April 1, 1997 15:04



2mm
Categ.ry             ~~~Sr. See    Jr. S.     Too~ef                                                     IDA
Tochnical  Scbool      Sdhool      I;strocr  Cent. Prol Local           To.tl          Sot        Fler
Investment        Coll ll.ck.            Blockl        Dv.l.      Unnaesom.nt Adel .                   Fi sanctum    Amount a
CiVil W#            US.$        i2.$       2n.7           -           -                      m        yI                  7n
ds                  121.6        79.9      176.7                   _          _                  
pro. F               27.9        -                                                            so.  -  _  _    -         -
Fel. wsbips          -           -          -            1I9.S -                  --         150           i             160
Co-It-a              -           -          -             -           118.9       -          114           in            114
Central,,in.                     -          -             -             -4.                   Ss           la 
blegleml 8tmv.       -           -          -                         42.8        -           42           1a             42
Locl Admin.          -           -          -,            -                      165.1       185            -            -
Total B".          265.4       222.8      454.4         160.5       221.9       185.1    1,597             -            458
physical Cont.       26.5        22.2       45.4          15.6        22.1        10.5       1a             -             45
Price Cent.          12.2.        9.2       1O.9           *.1        11.L        1.1         78            -             28
TOtl Project       8l4.1     _26j.7        516.0         182.4       254.1       216.7      .7              -s
forigr Exch.      21S.6       268.J      870.4         102.4       2M.5        -         1,109            -            4S6
Figure roune to even vawues.
IDA wod tins.. IN  of estimated .1iv I works costs beyon thot cove  by the OPEC Fun *1 loction up to the mail., total
*1 location for eech .ubpeoJecO  _ .                                                                                              o



OENA WUTIL 42 MaLq  nvaLnI PRJcI
-  alry2a            is _|tsw-c  t   g
Am-Aim
Category                         mlui par.   Dm. stic       T. .r/                                                          IDA
of                  Technical  Trainn         Arts          Tndor   Coat. ProJ  Local               Total                        FinancF
!vstmo              C.Is"        Centrr       Institte    Devl.          ma.esnt  Adeln.                          Fnncin    *       u   SI
Civi I Wrks            U7.S         494.2         57of          -                                     566
Goods                 161.8         19.7    #      36-                                    -           297
Prof. F _              -             60.2         -             -             -           -            a9            -
FeBloesip.             -             -            -            139.6          -     -                 14            la               149
Commit.                -             -            -             -            113.9        -           114           Iff              114
Central AIMIn.         -             -            -             -      8      6           -            ES
Reional so".           -             -            -             -             42.8                     42           10                42
Local Adla.                  -                   -        _                  -          142.2         142           --
Total .s.          201.3         571.1         95.5         139.6         221.9       142.2       1,6             -               444
Physical Coat.         20.6          57.1          9.6          14.0          22.1        14.2         188           -                44
Price Coot.      8     .S            27.3          3.7          .1t           11.9        19.0         6S            -                22
Total Proje3t      237.6          655.5        196.9         16.7      __25.1          16.4         1.             -               SIS
Foreign Exch.        1S.9          470.0         67.0         16.7         256.5         -          1,11            -               444
p   Figures rounded to e*v*  vaIUes.                                                                                                                 O
Ph~
LA



Page 3 of 5
S    g                   !|            18      I
!                                               *  tttttt               1  
a.      o      I                  1t1            j
t   t W  ,t t  ,  t  s  .   't    1EI
XS]   S- ] S  1  s  i  il S  -t X S  C  &z0



category                      Multi psr.  T.ehyr/                                                    IDA
.t                Tochnicel  Training       n    or   Cent. Po    Loel           t.i            W         Finance
Investmet         Cot ill     Centers     Del.         Manamement  Adein.                     Finsacin     Amount 
Civil Works       1,196.1         6.9         -            -            -       1,712            kI          1,297
Goods              606.        161.-                                   -         7-         _-              -
Prefoeoolol Fees   138.6          75.6        -            -            -         266            -            -
F llows_ips           -           -         151.1          -            -         15            it            151
Coosltant             -           -           -          818.2          -         818           is            814
Central Admli.        -           -                      176.2          -         170           IN            179
3o.onJ serv.           -           -                      42.8          -          42           la             42
Local Admin.          -           -           -            -          179.0       1 .            -
Total _e.   1,975.7       761.9       151.1        538.7        176.9    8,062             -          1,063
Pb)slcel Coot.       197.6       76.2         15.1        63.4         17.9      8an                          19l
Price Coot.          s8.6        88.6   7.. _             2..L         12.6          _           -             99
Total ProJ.   2.261.8    _671.9    __L _            618.7      = 2J.. 4    4Jl_              _         2.2a8
Forolp Exchane  1,645.2         629.9       178.9        565.           -       8,014            -          1,908
Figures rounded to even value.
ID wold finane I   of estimated civil works coas beoyd that covered by the OPEC Fund *I loction up to the maximums total
allocotion for each ubproject component.
0



W. VIIXI Am n _           111
t                  11W1t1  .     Rilfl           _            T_e                                                               ns~~~~~~~11  IM
Suetuemo  bomeftle      ImiitrusAo
CoSt _laSel                              sleak         Oo.      t  Uema                                       lel              S s
Coil I.W""              fh.1           W.1    .                     s _  _                              - 1as..                           i       m.1
i.?                                  80r           I            0 a.$                                                S _  _                
Pt.                      - Fi.-                      -           1.            - _     _                                  _ _
W leAl_                  -             -             -           -            141.         -            -             1                           142
COOM.MM                  -             -             -           -             -                                                        s0.2  -  t 
Cetral    .              -             -             -           -             -             .          -                                         140
tlSleS i                 -             -             -           -             -           42.8          -             42                W         42
Lm Aele.                 -            -               -   _ _                               -U.                                         -    -
TOW  11_.         11.6        1,885.6         42.6        185.5         141.1       414.8        1n.11        12,                 -       1,46?
lke  l cea.              3#.4         17.1           14.3        17.1          14.1        44.4         19.6            0                -        1i*
Prti  CmS.              -M.4           Sj             9..        . .    9       ...Z        la          IL.?           in                -L4
Total Prdj.t  4-      L       1*      W1.                    a.1           Z L.       RZM. Sm..                                   - L.A"
PFerelgi Eceaga         80.8        I,U.t          22?1.8      141.6         14t.6       42.8          -            2,4h                -       1,414
(a) Flipow     , _sdI  t  vsr ncal m.
IDA *oId filoon" lo   of  estod *tworIW           cofl I I$ d t_t aecu--d c9e r iC Ped of tootle, up to Wot  m mllw tt_l
at l.  .lo.   tee eac ..prjs.t c_o_ee.
oIf
0t
H,



- 42 -
AE 9
OCS REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL -DUCATION PROJECT
Staff Auraat l Reuoot
Tablo 1:  Finanoina by Catoorv and S0urc
(in U8$ aillon)
Coat Categorios          IDA (2)       CDI () I    OPC (S)       Govt.  T} Total
Civil Works                  3.2  (562)      ---         2.5 (442)      ---           5.7
Furniture & Equipment        ---             2.8 (1002) ---             ---           2.8
Professional Ube             ---             ---         ---            0. 7(1002)    0. 7
(Architect)
Technical Assistance
Fellowships                0.8 (1002)                  ---            ---           0.8
Consultants                1.1 (1OO2)      --          ---            ---           1.1
Central Administration       0.6 (1002)      ---         ---            ---           0.6
Regional Board/LHIS          0.3 (1002)      ---                        ---           0.3
In-Country Project
Managem_nt                                 ---         --- ---jQQ00j   1.0
TOTAL              6.0 (462 )      2.8 (222)  2.5 $19%)        1.7 t142)   13.0
T&ble 2: Country Counterpart Contribution (Includin  Continmence)
(in US$000'.)
Participant         Total       Prof.    Local           Total
Countrios           Cost       Fees   Ahkin. &I   la-Country kI
Dominica             1,731        76       213             289
Gronada              1,583        69       164             233
St. Kitts/           2,164       132       214             346
Nevis
St. Lucia            4,132       294       207             501
St. Vincentl         3,388       174       229             403
Grenadines
Totals           13.000       745    1.027            1.772
L/  Local adMastrotion Incl_uds iul-time projeWt dector I USI  _1
euIvalent/year for *Iux ear; 4 Profession.l support Staft fe  ti a
US#,IpSear *or men ars; and replacement of teoaerst amon sadmi year
ftl lowb pm a US,8/yer/te***hr.
y   The local l1plasttlton eoste of each country's subproject compsast differ to
a cartean eatet du to warlations I the ne for      cost of arilteatural
*ervice and for raplcmwet otf teahr en fellowbip tralnin, both ot which
"re part of country counterpart ontributias. Ths, on an individual basis, the
in-owntry ca  very ellhtly above or below the veraep of 143 of projec
cosa.



- 43 -
ANNEX 10
OECS REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
(US$ Nilll2ns)
ICB         LCB          Other        Total
Civil Works Construction       --           5.7          --            5.7
(3.2)                      (3.2)
Architectual Services          --            --         0.7            0.7
Equipment/Furniture            --            --         2.8&/          2.8
Technical Assistance           2.5                       --            2.5
(2.5)                                  (2.5)
Regional Services (RTB/LMIS)  --             --          0.3           0.3
(0.3)        (0.3)
Local Administration           --            --          1.0           1.0
Total                          2.5           5.7         4.8           13.0
(2.5)        (3.2)        (0.3)         (6.0)
Note:   Figure. In parenthese are the respective mounts which would be financed by
the proposed IDA credit.
g/ To be procured under COO guideline



- 44 -
MUt 11
ORGANIZATION OF EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES
REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJICT
Schedule of Estimated Disburseents
Disbursements              Disbursement Profilo
IBRD          Semester    Cumulative       This Pro1.  Retional Averaze a/
FYISe               USHNllions                        (1)
1988
1st        0.2          0.2                3               0
2nd        0.4          0.6               10               3
1989
1st        0.5          1.1               18               8
2nd        0.5          1.6               27              14
1990
lst        0.7          2.3              38               20
2nd        0.8          3.1               52              27
1991
lst        0.8          3.9               65              35
2nd        0.7          4.6               76              42
1992
lst        0.5          5.1               85              51
2nd        0.5          5.6               93              59
1993
let        0.3          5.9               98              68
2nd        0.1          6.0              100              75
ai This profile was constructed using historical data from 11 oducation
projects in the Latin America and Caribbean Region during the period
FY76-85



- 45 -
NNEX 12
OECS REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TEaNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Enrol lments. Techers and Unit Recurrent Cost
(CoSt" in UST equlvelent) /j
Country            Primarv   Secondary      Countnr                 Primar,  Secondary
Domlntes (1068)                             St. Lucia (1OU)  /
Enrollments         1o9om        7,822      Enrollmont               82,167        6,814
Toachers               766          --       Tneaher                   1,670         869
Class size              25                   Clas  lse                  s8            1S
Expenditure      2,761,111     952,508       Expenditure          5,922,o22    2,462,096
Unit cost              145         125       Unit ot                     1E          488
Orenada (1902) k                            St. Vincent (1061) 2/
Enrolleonts         17,7U4       6,676       Enrollment              21,497        7,771
Teachers               77          264       Teahehr                  1,194          827
Closs size              28          82       Class size                  16           24
Expenditure      2,611,606    1,61,4         Expenditure          4,188,88            -
Unit cost              147         176       Unit cost                  192
St. Kitts/
Nevis (1908) /
Enrollont"           0,676       4,966
Teachers               851         289
Clase size              28          14
Expenditure             -    2,66,6_
Unit cost                          190
Soures Country udget Estimates and Statistiea Yearbookl and the Un eso 165
Statistical Yearbook.
!/ Expenditure given In current US equivalents.
O  Expenditure date for 1968 *estIated fre 1984 budget.
Expenditure data for primary and secondary expenditure combined (estimated from 1984
budget daot nd statistical reports).
{/ Date on enrol Iment from 1908-14 Eductilon Statistics Dlget.
/ Expenditure data from 1964 budget estimates.
Note: These annual unit coste, avoragirg USSI00 for prliary and U82J for secondry, are
considerably loer than the relon as a whoele I.*., US$227 and US$$?$,
repectively.



- 46 -
P i 2 of 2
OECS REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECM4ICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APRISAL RPORT
Unlt C*t. for Prolet COD1tl nvestment
(in 15 equivalent) 3/
Domlnica   Qena a      St. Kitte    St. Lulei  St. VInn        Totals
Training plaest          05       5644            SS           567          976        8,625
Civil works
Total cost        588,s70    595,62      1,OS,S2S      1,908,86   1,568,581    5,741,872
Unit cost             659      1,005         1,944         8,891        1,578        1,629
Furn./."ulpmsnt
Total cost        462,085    840,928       847,814       862,185      7o2,02     2,765,852
Unit cost             464        627           652         1,469          82           776
Total cost          001,684   908,90        1,8,642      2,852,941   2,l81,451    8,477,224
Overa l  unit cost    1,114      1,722         2,586         4,860        2,875        2,405
Noto:  Civl works for this project lncludes varyIng degroes of building renovation In the
countries and furniture and equlpment Is Intended to complement that which Iready
exist.  *i, unit coat theref 4re Is considerably leo  than for complete new
constructlon fully turnished and equipped. The figures In the table above compare wlth
a Latin American and Carlibben reglonal average for new constructlon , fully furnished
and equlpped, of US818 687 for civil works, USS6,P78 for furniture end quipment, end
USS19,358 for the combination.



- 47 -
ANNEX 13
Pago 1 of 3
OECS REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Recurrent Cost Requirements and Cost Recovory
Recurrent Costs
1.       It is anticipated that when all project components become fully
operational in 1993-94, the additional recurrent costs to be incurred by
each country as a result of the project will range from 1.6% for Dominica
to 3.71 for St. Christopher and Nevis with an average of 2.4S. This is
discussed on a country-by-country basis in the country subprojects section
(Annex 1). In terms of the foregoing estimates of the budgetary shares,
the additional recurrent cots of the proposed project components (with the
possible exception of St. Kitts and Nevis) should be manageable; however,
all project beneficiary states, in varying degrees, have beon exporiencing
difficulty in supporting their existing education systems (para. 2.10).
The Governments, having accorded high priority to the proposed project,
will need to make the necessary adjustments in their education budgets to
enable them to meet the project-related additional recurrent costs,
primarily for additional teachers to accomodate expanded programs (para.
3.6). The adoption of appropriate cost effectiveness and cost-recovery
measures would facilitate their tasks (para. 3.10). An additional
recurrent cost item would be expenditures for equipment and facility
maintenance. Education facilities in the countries have been generally
well-maintained though equipment has not, with the result that much of the
existing equipment is not operable. The project would Include under
equipment allocations the provision of spare parts to facilitate equipment
maintenance and would support, under the fellowship program, training of
maintenance technicians for this purpose. As the additional recurrent
costs due to the proposed project would not have to be absorbed fully
before 1993, the Governmonts concerned would have ample time to make the
necessary adjustments.
Cost Recovery for Consumable SuDlY Fund
2.       In view of the current financial constraints in the project
beneficiary states, the governments must find ways to ease the situation
without sacrificing their basic education systems and the quality of their
education. The proposed project would make provision for conducting In all
project beneficiary states, broadly based feasibility studies aimed at
cost-savings and cost-recovery in edueation, each of which embodies a
different concept. The proposed cost-recovery program for the consumable
supply fund is described in subsequent paragraphs.
3.       Fortunately, there is a broad range of 'cost-recovery" activities
being used successfully in many developed and developing countries. To
assist in the initial phases of those activities which might be Implemented
through this project, "ssed money' in amounts up to US$60,000 equivalent
per participating country would be authorised under the equipment category
of the project.



- 48 -                        ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 3
Obiectives and Expected Benefits
4.       The objective of the cost-recovery program is to identify and
Implement special activities in training which will (a) enhance the quality
of instruction and (b) generate a monetary return which will offset most or
all of the costs for consumable supplies.
5.       The expected benefits of the program i-ould be more relevant and
iWproved quality of instruction while making consumable supplies and
practical hands-on training opportunities (similar to actual work
experience on-the-job) more readily available. The program would also
liprove student and instructor motivation, enhance student retention, and
reduce training costs financed from the regular budget.
Plannins and Implementation of the Protram
688      Initiation of Planning for the cost recovery program will be an
early topic of discussion by the Voational and Technical Education (VT!)
advisor of the Project Implementation Team (PIT) and the country Project
Managers. The PIT would arrange with CDB the procedures for individual
country withdrawal of funds from the eouipment catetorY of the loan to
establish the program. Such funds would be used on a 'rovolving fund
basis for the initial purchase of production materials and supplies. The
revolving fund would be subject to an annual audit along with the auditing
requirements for other project accounts (para. 3.25 of the SAR).
7.       Personnel reauirements for the program would be minimal; full-time
staff members or support staff would not be necessary as the assignment of
such personnel would likely offset any monetary gains which might otherwise
be achieved. Planning of the more appropriate cost-recovery activities for
initial funding would be done by the technical college principals and
vocational training coordinators in conjunction with their instructors
whose programs are to be involved.
8.       Educatienally sound and economically viable activities would be
selected. Not all training programs have potential for "cost recovery"
training activities which can meet the criteria of being educationally
sound and economically viable. Such programs, therefore, would not be
eligible for any initial allocation of funds. Among such programs which
can rarely develop *cost recovery' activities meeting these criteria are:
most secretarial and business education programs; masonry, plumbing and
electrical installations programs; and certain parts of electronics
programs. The moro common instructional programs which can meet the above
criteria are those such as: automotive mechanics, auto body, welding and
metal fabrication, furniture and cabinet making, food service programs,
garment making, agricultural production programs, and certain kinds of
crafts activities.
9.       The process of identifyins apRropriate cost-recovery activities
meeting the two criteria listad above (para. 8) would include, among othor
things, the preparation of an inventory of required initial stock and its
estimated costs. Price quotations for the initial stock would be obtained
from two or more local suppliers and details and specifications for the
cost-recovery aspect of the activity would be clearly defined.
10.      Details of the cost-recovery consumables revolving fund, including



49 -                           ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 3
legal "pects and initial deposit of money into the funds, would be
developed by the VTE advisor, in conjunction with the local Project
Managers, with advice from the PIT Project Coordinator oad other CDB staff
as appropriato. The system established would be standardizsd among thc
project's beneficiary states.
11.      Regional coordination of the cost-recovery program would exist
only to the extent that the PIT would keep all participating countries
informed about innovative and successful activities.



- 50 -                         ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
OECS REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Regort
Proiect Action Dates and Monitoring Indicators
Item                                             Completion Date
Construction/Renovation
1.  Construction drawings finalized                    March 30, 1988
2.  Bid documents sent for CDB Review                  March 30, 1988
3.  Advertise and issue documents                      May 31, 1988
4.  Receive bids                                       August 31, 1988
5.  Complete bid analysis                              September 30, 1988
6.  Award construction contracts                       November 15, 1988
7.  Initiate construction                              January 1, 1989
8.  Complete construction                              June 30, 1990
Equipment and Furniture a/
1.  Equipment and furniture lists finalized            December 30, 1988
2.  Specification and cost estimates completed         March 30, 1989
3.  Bid documents completed                            April 30, 1989
4.  Advertise and issue documents                      June 1, 1989
5.  Receive Bids                                       August 31, 1989
6. Complete bid analysis                               September 30, 1989
7. Award contracts                                     October 31, 1989
8.  Receipt and installation of equipment
and furniture                                      August 31, 1990
Technical Assistance
1.  Terms of reference for consultants                 March 31, 1987
2.  Appointment of Project Cordinator for PIT (54sm)  March 20, 1987
3. Architect (18sm)                                    September 30, 1987
4. Contracting of consultants
Vocational and Technical Education Adv. (48sm)  September 30, 1987
Procurement Specialist (36sm)                    November 30, 1987
Education Finance Specalists (12sm)              Doecember 31, 1987
Manpower Specialist (24sm)                       January 1, 1988.
5. Fellowships bi
Voc. and Tech. Education Supervisors             September 30, 1988
Instructors (short term)
Group I                                        September 30, 1988
Group II                                       Septembor 30, 1989
Instructors (long term)
Group I                                        June 30, 1989
Group II                                       June 30, 1990
Maintenance Technicians                          June 30, 1990
a/ Equipment and furniture will be purchased in tranches.  These dates,
therefore, indicate expected completion of all items in each
procurement stage.
b/ Dates for fellowships indicate expected completion of training.



NMAu 14
Page 2 of 2
Monitoeinm Indicator.
Snd of Year X C l&tl.on Targe: Ets timat    Actuul)
Prol]ct Item                   .. L            C0         CY         CY91        43 an        CY"
Conebruetl2n
1   tchal  Collos
St. Lucia                                       40      So l          1$ /
St. Vlncont/Qronadin.    1                      40/        SO/        198/'
2. Sr. Sconderx Schools
onio                                            401i(2)  // 100/
St  Kitts./JNeve         (1                                   /
St. Luci a                                                 a1 1/ 6/C  )    NAC 
St. Vincent/Gr.nsdine      )                                SO 1/         t
Number Complotod                                 S/          6/         7/A   )
S. Jr. S ecndary c holo
3o-mr"Tco- n                                    40{t/                 1"0/
St. Klite .fievis        t2                     4/t        so/        100/t
Number Comploted                                 S/)    9/             it/t  )
Equ1omen/tFurnituro Procure _nt
1. Flrt Trnche                                 4S/( )   to/   )
2. Second Trnse                                             MY/    )    Os/(  )
8.  Third Trencho                                          40/        i8/    )    1/(  )
F.l lablP Training
VTE Supervliors                      1/8    )
Instructors (Short-Term)              I/( )         310/
Instructor (Long-Toro)                              So/        100/(
Maintonance Techniclnos                                        11/ 



-52-            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 1 of
>- 1-:-y-                                       ^
_ E I -
* _1 .fl.                 
-N __        _    _    _    _    _    __   ,3 
|-    ____             ___       _1-___
X l|*E ________
i3 I |hSW--4'
E- _                                              
-                                               13
i  '*Sa                    }X  X3l



- 53-                         ANN5I
Page 2 of 3
__          _   _   _   _   _   _  _   _   _   _   _~   ~ _  m
I !       _    _ _    _   _    _   _   _    .  _  _. _::_      _
_ S''--' -  - ':s
i ~~ 3   _E-    i                                             - 
*                      . _ _____
g X -X --~I            =     6  ---                ------1 - 
3 0 ] ]   ==_ 141 
S _  =                                                       'D
03~~I   5t  3% 4                                           r



ORGAN1ZATION Of EASTER CAUIBIZA  STATES
REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EVUCATION flOJECT
Inple.eotatioo Schedule - Technical Assistance
Calendar Year                         1987        18         1989         1990        1           1"2          1993        194            '95
IJRD FY 4 Quarter                  81      Ms8         FY89         M90           Y91        FY92        FY93         FY94        FY95
Tenn of teference (completed)
Employmet of Project Mmnager                  -        --       -----------    -                           --
VTE Advisor                       r _        _  _  _ _  _  _ _
Architect----    -                                        ---
Procureent Specialist                  - _   _   _  _   _   _  _   _   _   _
Education Finnce Specialist
anpower Specialist           I I  I I  I
FeIllowship.
VTE Supervisors
Instructors (Short-Term)
Group I
Group 11I6
lnstructors (Long-Term)
Group I
Group II
Maintenance Technicians
Board Presentation                                                             Project Completion
* Indicate  Reviev *nd Approval by Cos                                                                       Closing Date



- 55 -                  ANNUZ 16
~~i   I____
01 tH I Ial



- S6 -
ANN!L- 17
Page 1 of 2
OlCd  REGIONAL VOCRVIONZ IND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
BUilT APPRAIAUL RUM101
Bilaterrl Assistsnce for Treinina Within the eRon 1
Several donor agencies ctr providing training support for the
Caribbean Region an indictod in succeedin paragraphs. As the support hcs
not been uniform nor consIstent In slL of the OECS countries an essessuent
of the regional inpet of such assistance would be difficuLt. Sae
coordInctton of these actions would be an expcted future role of the NfBs
and the proposd RTO. VAls proposed projeat would not conflict with nor
replace any of the various donor agency activities.
British Develoument Division (RD). The BDD training program
provides Individual fellowship trcining w ard on a grant basis for study
at U.E. institutions (UTC asrds) and for study Ln a third country within
the region (VISTM awards). This program provides about 100 U.K.  wards and
cpprouimately 60 VISTS awards each yer for the region.  The EDD awards are
intended to stimuate and sustain soclal and econoumic developmet through
education, thb acquisition of skills and knowledge, and the strengthen"ng
of mopmer resoures in recipient countries.
Coribbean Develogment Bank (CDBI) The CDi training activities
have boen maitly to upgrade regional *kills In project preparation and
pro3ect management and tao iMrove administratlve and technical capabilities
In the water utilities sector.  In addition, s*  CDB projects in ODCS
countries have Included trauinin components.
Canadian lntenational Develument hAe, (CIDA)* This agency,
durin  the past decade, hs supported training at the university level for
about 1,000 prsons. CIDA provides fellowship training for the region
through its Canada Training Awards Project (CUP). Such training awrd
are in support of lal government requests  and CIDA developmet projects
with tmp has on achievin a multiplpLng effect. Priority sectors for CIDS
trainin  support include agriculture; tourism, techical education, end
industrial development.
Euronean Develoment Fund (ED?) . The ED? provides fellowship
training awards for certificate, diplom, ad degree studies In Europe and
in the OECS region. After the EDF training allocation for each country ha
bean determined, the resp*otiwe government distributes the resources
accarding to national training prIorities. Most EDP trainng Is in support
of EDP development projects with about two-thirds devoted to the publIc
sector.
1/ Information Sources Eastern Caribbean Human Resources Development
Sector Assessment, Miranda Associates, Inc. (prepared for the U.S.
Agency for Intornational Development), September 1985.



- 57 -
ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 2
United States Azoncy for International Developmont (USAID). The
USAID tralning prlorities in the region include the promotion of economic
growth, strengthening free political instltutLons, fostering self-rellance,
and the support of cooperative activities and institutions which Lmplement
these objectives. In-countrp public sector management training is beLng
provided through the OECS under the Caribbean RegLonal Development Training
(EDT-I&II) project.  Related training and management consulting services
have aIso been provided for the private sector. The IAC Training
Initiative II project also provides trainLng in support of the USAID
development strategy.
United Nations Development Program (UNDP). Training funds under
this donor agency are allocated through the Food and Agriculture
Organlzatlon (FAO), International Labor Organizatlon (ILO), and the United
Nations Economic, Soclil, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO)" which is
serving the Caribbean through the Caribbean Network of Educational
Innovation for Development (CARNEKD). PAO is providing technical resource
persons from withln the region to train in-country and regionally.  ILO has
assisted witul hotel trainLng and pre-vocational training.  UNESCO has
assisted wvth studies on education and productive work, profiles of
organizations and educational admlnistratlon in the region, and intra-
regional worksahops an selected education Issues.
Partners foxi  he Americas.  This group has been supporting
training ILn the area o.. human resources development in the United St,ates
for the public and prLvate sectors.  In some cases, this training has been
combined with in-country on-site training involving resource technlcians
from the U.S. Such trainLng has Included the areas of business, vocational
education, tourism, infrastructure maintenance training, and computer
training.
United States Peace CoE2s. The Peace Corps provides technical
expertise through volunteer services, primrily in tlhe area of human
resource development, to help nationals acquire skills in their on work
setting. Some of the Peace Corps Volunteers replace country nationals who
are in overseas or extra-regional tralning, while others fill positions for
which technical skills are lacking among nationals.
International Volunteer Service (IVS)e The IVS is involved in in-
country trainiag, utilizing regional resources, usually for a period of two
years. The IMS services have been extended to several OECS countries
through the provision of assistance in small business management,
agricultural productionimarket'Igg, financial management, and youth job
skills training.
Ortanization for Cooperation in Overseas Development (OCOD). This
organLzation responds to needs for development assistance primarily in the
West Indies. It supports basic training In teaching methodology and
upgrading in subject matter for untrained teachers; refresher courses for
trained teachers; continuLng education for young "school leaver.a with
emphasis on job preparation; training of teacher trainers; and training of
special personnel required by minLstries for posts which cannot otherwiso
be fllied.



- 58 -
ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 3
OECS Retional Vocational and Technical Education Proiect
Staff Appraisal Report
Experience with Past Bank/IDA Lendinz
Prolects
1.       The Bank Group's relationship with CDB evolved out of its role as
the executing agency for a UNDP project to provide technical assistance to
CDB shortly after its founding in 1970. In April 1976, the Bank made a
loan to CDB of US$17.0 million (1233-CRG) and a Third Window loan of US$3.0
million (1234 CRG). In December 1979 the Bank group provided CDB with a
US$23.0 million Bank loan (1775-CRG), US$7.0 million IDA credit (960-CRG)
and a US$1.0 million EEC special action credit (37-CRG). In May 1983, IDA
made a SDR6.5 million credit (1364CRG). The Bank and IDAIEEC Funds were
made available to CDB for relending in all sectors in which the Bank Group
would normally lend. These 3perations addressed basically the objectives
oft (a) strengthening CDB's organization to make it a more effective
regional development institution; (b) channeling additional development
funds to the Bank Group member countries; and (c) improving CDB's ability
to appraise and supervise projects. Details regarding subproject
characteristics and performance under the previous projects are given in
the following paragraphs.
2.       Loans 1233-CRG and 1234-CRO.  Loan 1233-CRG was used to finance
nine projects in six countries; four (47X) to national DFCs; three (36%)
for transportation projects and one each for tourism (27Z) and industrial
estates (15%). Loan 1234-T-CRG financed four projects in four LDCs. The
subprojects included electricity generation, ports, sugar development and
mortgage finance. Only six of the total 13 subprojects required the
calculation of economic rates of return which ranged from a high of 65X for
a cruise ship pier.to 8-20% for the others. Grace periods ranged from 10
years for a road project to 2 years for a commercial aircraft purchase.
Repayments periods were from 8-18 years.
3.       Cancellations associated with Loan 1233-CRO totalled US$1.4
million. The two largest cancellations from the loan were for Jamaica
Development Bank (JDB) for US$0.8 million and the Guyana Forestry Road
Project for US$0.3 million. The former was due to the deteriorating
financial condition of JDB, which ultimately was closed down.  The latter
was caused by unfinished work associated with a contractor's dispute.
4.       Loan 1775-CRG, Credits 960 and 37-CRG.  The transportation sector
was the largest recipient (311) of total funds provided under the second
operation. The subprojects in this sector comprised an airport terminal
building in the Cayman Islands, a port project in Dominica to rebuild what
was devastated by a hurricane, repair of flood-damaged roads in Jamaica and
a feeder roads project in St. Kitts. Another 221 went to Barbados and
Guyana for three direct manufact'iring projects, two of which were owned by
the privatr sector.  A mortgage finance subloan for housing in Jamaica and



- 59 -
ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 3
a DFC operation in The Bahamas account for 16%. Two water supply projects,
one in Jamaica and the other in Grenada, represented 121. The energy
sector's share of 101 was for financing one power project each in St.
Vincent and the Grenadines. The subloans for the power project in St.
Vincent were in the form of blended funds from IBRD, IDA and EEC to
complete its financing plan. Other subloans (4Z) were for equity
contributions to three DFCs as part of financial restructuring programs to
revitalize the institutions in Antigua, Dominica and St. Lucia. The
remaining (51) represents an unallocated balance of US$1.9 million (US$1.4
million under Loan 1775-CRG and USEO.5 million under Credit 960-CRO) which
resulted from recent cancellations of undisbursed balances for four
projects. This unallocated balance would be cancelled at the Closing Date
(December 31, 1986) unless CDB utilizes this for financing cost overruns
relating to already authorized subprojects before the Closing Date.
5.       Only ten of the total 16 subprojects required the calculation of
economic rates of return which ranged from a high of 341 for a seals and
packaging project to 12-30X for the others. Grace period ranged from 8-10
years for equity investments in DFCs to 1.5 years for a sugar factory
project. Repayment periods were from 9 to 40 years.
6.       Credit 1364-CRG.  CDB approved four subloans consisting of SDR
1.34 million for a road reconstruction project in Grenada, SDR 1.89 million
for a feeder roads project in Dominica, SDR 1.88 million for a feeder road
project in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and SDR 1.39 million for a water
supply project in St. Lucia. Thus, CDB has complied with the IDA's
requirement that at least 601 of the IDA credit would be allocated to the
first three poorest countries noted above.  However, as of June 30, 1986,
only one subloan (Grenada road reconstruction project) was approved by IDA.
Approval of the other subloans are being held pending satisfetory
clarification of certain issues and CDB's assignment of rights to IDA.
According to CDB's appraisal estimate, economic rates of return for the
four subprojects range from a low of 141 for a water supply project to 21-
311 for the other projects. Grace period for the IDA subloans is on
average 8 years. Repayment period is 40 years.
7.       Of the eight direct subloans made by CDB under the first
operations, it post-evaluated five as successful and three as not
successful. The former were relatively simple projects relying on a single
primary contractor. In these cases construction costs did not exceed
budgets significantly and the economic benefits occurred as predicted.
They included a tourist shopping center development, forestry road, cruise
ship pier, industrial estate and a diesel electric generator. The three
projects with negative ex-post economic rates of return can be
characterized as more complex projects in which CDB had less experience at
the time of appraisal. A project for the purchase of two 'commuter" size
aircraft ran into trouble over opertional and financial management of the
airline. A sugar mill project suffered from a weak implementation team,
improper design, engineering and cost control, and insufficient field
extension services. The cost of a port project was underestimated by a
factor of two. In this last case Bank funds were used to complete the
financial plan, and the investment was justified using a sunk-cost
analysis. Five other subloans under the first operations were for
financial intermediaries; two of these were generally unsuccessful and the



- 60 -
ANNEX 18
Page 3 of 3
DFCs involved have had to be reorgnaized. On balance, performance of
subprojects financed under the first operation has been marginally
successful.
8.       It is premature to pass judgement on the actual performance of
subprojects financed under the second operation with CDB. However, delays
in project implementation caused by the deterioration of economic
conditions in the borrowing countries would adversely affect the
performance of subprojects.
Rate of Utilization of Loans/Credits
9.       In each operation CDB has taken substantially longer to approve
and disburse subloans than antScipated at appraisal. The delays were due
largely to (i) IBRD's requirements that each subloan have a country
guaranteo; (ii) severe economic problems in CDB's largest borrowing
countries which sharply reduced lending to them; (iii) lack of absorptive
capacity in the lesser developed member countries (LDC); (iv) reluctance of
several governments to provide a guarantee for private sector projects; and
(v) availability of large amounts of competing soft funds from other
agencies.
Lessons Drawn from Previous Lending to CDB
10.      Among the lessons drawn in the course of a performance audit of
the first Bank project (loans 1233-CRG and 1243-T-CRG) for CDB, the
following are most relevant to the proposed OECS regional vocational and
technical education project.
(a) A better focused institution-building for CDB program would be
more effective; and
(b) Concessionary treatment of commitment fees can result in
disbursement delays as the intermediary is tempted to draw down
first other resouces which are not subjected to such a favorablo
treatment.
11. Taking into ace.ount the above lessons, the proposed project would
include the following featurest (i) with respect to lesson (a) above,
IDA's institution-building efforts under the proposed project would focus
on improvements in CDB's loan administration and project supervision
(including portfolio review and control) procedures; and in regard to
lesson (b) above, disbursements would be made on a gr  rata basis to ensure
that IDA funds and CDB funds are equitably drawn down as procurement on
project works is made.



- 61 -
ANN   19
Page 1 of 2
OECS REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Proposed IDA Credit Features
1.       The proposed IDA credit would be made to CDB for onlending to the
beneficiary states through its Special Funtd Resources (S8R) operations on
standard IDA terms, except that the beneficiary states' payments to CDB
would be made on a quarterly basis. As such, the credit operation would
not result in a liability to CDB since the SIR are segregated from CDB
assets. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by CDB's borrowers in
accordance with CDB's Charter, and consequently subloans would be expressed
in 8DR's . CDB wovuld assign to IDA its rights In respect of contracts
under which its loans are made with IDA resources. All payments by CDBI,
including those to tho project beneficiary states, would flow through a SIR
account, which CDB would create for funneling the proposed IDA credit. The
beneficiary states would share, under the proposod credit, the CDB costs of
onlending the IDA funds (including costs of central project administration
and supervision (par.. 3.12). Under the provious IDA credit to CDB (1364-
CRS), the subborrowers were not charged commitment fees by CDB (nor CDB by
IDA) until disbursement for each of their subloans (not Identified before
IDA credit signing) were authorized by IDA. In the case of this proposed
lending, the subprojects have already been identified and appraised by
CDBIIDA and the IDA credit would be presented to the IDA Board only after
CDB agrees to act as financial conduit for IDA and as Executing Entity.
for this purpose, it would act as agent on behalf of the project
boneficiary states. Considering these factors, under the proposed lending,
CDB's commitment fee payments to IDA would be due starting with the
effectiveness of the IDA credit.
2.       The following legal framework would apply to the proposod londing
operation:
(a) IDA would negotiate a development credit agreement with CDB,
stipulating the project beneficiary states; the project would be
divided into two parts, one being the overall regional component
(the costs of which would be distributed among the beneficiary
states proportional to the costs of their country components
(para. 3.12) and the other part being divided into five distinct
country components (subprojects) to which country-related
conditions to be required by IDA would be attached (In the
agreement between CDB and the country in question).
(b) CDB has obtained authorization from its Board for CDB to act as
financial conduit for IDA funds and as a Coordinating Entity, and
for this purpose, it would act as government agent on behalf of
the five project beneficiary countries, according to the
negotiated terms;



- 62 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 2
(c) for effectiveness of its credit agreement with CDB, IDA would
roquire, Inter alia, offectivoness of at loast three of the CDB
sub-loan agreements with the project beneficiary states in order
to ensure achievement of regional project objectives and
assignment of CDB's rights under such sub-loan agreements to IDA
(para. 4.4(a)). There would be no cross-default clauses in these
agreements (i.oe., events for suspension of the IDA credit
disbursements, if country-related, would be limited to the country
concerned); and
(d) if, at the time of IDA credit effectiveness, any remaining
beneficiary state loan agreements with CDB havo not been made
effectivo, the IDA credit proceeds allocated for those states
would be cancelled unless CDB, IDA, the OPEC Fund, and the project
countries whose loan agreements are effective reach an agreement,
to be in place on or before the effective date, that would enable
the late-comer(s) to continue participating in the project.



- 63 -
ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 7
OECS REGIONMt VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
CDB: THE INTERMEDIARY BORROWER
Introduction
1.       The Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) would be the borrower of the
proposed IDA credit and would relend the credit proceeds to the beneficiary
states under IDA terms. It would be responsible for supervision of overall
project implementation at the regional and at the country level, while
responsibility for physical execution of subprojects would rest with the
respective project countries. In addition, the CDB would lend
US$2.7 million from its Special Funds resources in support of the proposed
project and would act as administrator of the proposed loan from OPEC Fund
(SAR para. 3.18).
Constitution, Objectives, Management
2.       CDB was established in 1970 by 16 regional members, Canada and the
United Kingdom as nonregional members, and with additional financial
assistance from the USA, a nonmember. Venezuela joined the CDB in 1973,
Colombia in 1974, Mexico and Anguilla in 1982 and France in 1984. CDB's
Charter provides that each member state shall subscribe to shares of CDB
capital stock and that the regional members must hold not less than 602 of
the CDB shares. The authorized CDB capital, as of December 31, 1986, was
US$349.6 million of which US$347 million had been subscribed. Of the
subscribed amount, US$80.2 million was paid up and the balance is subject
to call when required by CDB to meet it obligations.
3.       According to its Charter, CDB's main objective is to contribute to
the harmonious economic growth and development of its member countries in
the Caribbean and to promote economic cooperation and integration among
them, having special and urgent regard for the needs of the less developed
members (LDCs) in the region. In fulfilling this objective, CDB is
required to assist its regional members in coordinating their development
programs, providing appropriate technical assistance and financing for
projects and programs. CDB has been designated as an associate institution
of the CARICOM and plays an increasingly important role in coordinating
discussions concerning the region's economic problems.
4.       The Board of Governors, as the highest policy-making body of CDB,
delegates certain functions to the Board of Directors which comprises 14
members. The Board of Directors is responsible for establishing general
policy and directing operations of the CDB, including loan and investment
approvals. The President of CDB also serves as Chairman of its Board of
Directors. In response to recommendations from an independent management
study undertaken in 1982/83, CDB introduced some important organizational
modifications in the past two years to consolidate project-related
activities. At the end of December, 1986, CDB had 206 staff (including 102
professionals).



- 64 -                              ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 7
Operational Policies
5.      Within the framework oZ its Charter, the Board of Directors has
established the broad guidelines governing CDB's lending and investment
operations and financial management. CDB's policies have, since December
1982, been amended to: (a) introduce a v&riable interest rate on Ordinary
Capital Resources (OCR) loans approved after April 1, 1984; (b) charge a
preparationlfront-end fee equivalent to 12 on all OCR loans approved after
January 1, 1985; (c) raise the minimum size of a direct loans from
US$100,000 to US$200,000; (d) require that disbursement be suspended after
4 to 6 months of arrears; and (e) establish accounting policies for non-
performing loans; i.e., non-accrual and general provisioning policies
(para. 17).
6.      The CDB Board, in October and December 1986, approved: (a) a
reduction in the period of arrears, from six to four months, before
suspension of disbursements; and (b) adoption of a specific provisioning
policy against sovereign debt portfolio. These changes were to strengthen
CDBts loan administration procedures. In addition, CDB in consultation with
IDA established or revised policies on: (a) loan charges; (b) accumulation
and maintenance of adequate reserves; (c) overall lending limit; (d) single
country exposure limit; (e) liquidity management; and (f) overall borrowing
limit.
Lending Operations and Portfolio
7.      From its inception in 1970 to December 1986, CDB's total approvals
(net of cancellations) of financing operations reached US$599.7 million in
loans, contingent loans, grants and equity investments. Net cumulative
loan approvals amounted to US$549.0 million (or 91.62 of total financing
approvals); contingent loan approvals, US$2.6 million (0.42); grant
approvals, US$46.0 million (7.71); and equity investments, US$2.0 million
(0.3%). Cumulative disbursements totalled US$416.7 million, or 69.51 of
net approvals at the end of 1986.
8.      CDB's operations are of two typess (i) ordinary operations and
(ii) special operations, including trust fund operations. Ordinary
operations are at CDB's risk and are financed from OCR which consist of
share capital, retained earnings and funds borrowed from other multilateral
development banks or the market. Special operations include loans made at
concessionary rates (2-6% p.a.) for high priority projects mainly in the
LDCs. These operations are financed from the Special Funds Resources (SFR)
consisting of Special Development Fund resources (SDF) and Other Special
Funds (OSF) established by donor countries and IDA at no risk to CDB.
Trust Fund resources are those managed by CDB on behalf of donors for a
fee, with credit risk borne by the fund, which at present consists of the
Venezuela Trust Fund (VTF).  As of December 31, 1986, CDB's operations
were accounted for (on the basis of cumulative approvals) by OCR 31.0S, SFR
66.1% and VTF 2.9%. CDB's annual loan approvals by the two major source of
funds during the period 1983-86 were as followst



- 65 -                             ANNEX 20
Page 3 of 7
Table 1: CDB: ANNUAL LOAN APPROVALS (Gross)
(US$ million)
1983 (No.)  1984 (No.)  1985 (No.)  1986 (No.)  1983-86(No.)
OCR           30.5         17.3        22.8          24.2          94.8
SFR           15.8         43.9        19.0          35.8         114.5
Total         46.3(22)    61.2(22)    41.8(13)       60.0 (18)    209.3(75)
Average
Loan Size    2.1          2.8         3.2            3.3           2.8
The economic difficulties being experienced by several CDB borrowing member
countries since 1983 were reflected in the high level of loan cancellations
(US$14 million) in 1984, the substantial decline in loan approvals in 1985,
and further large cancellations (US$22.2 millions) in 1986.
9.      For the period 1970-86, the transport sector accounted for 28.3% of
total CDB lending, with manufacturing (including DFC) contributing 27.52,
agriculture 14.61, power and water 92. Infrastructure projects all
together made up 542 of total lending. Over the same period, the LDCs
received 54% of CDB's total financing. At the end of 1986, loan approvals
(both OCR and SFR) for Jamaica represented 21% of CDB's cumulative net loan
approvals, 9% each for Barbados and Belize, about 8% each for St. Lucia and
St. Vincent and Grenadines, 72 each for Guyana and Dominica, and the
remaining 312 for other ten countries and regional projects. CDB's OCR
loan portfolio totalling US$97.5 million at the end of 1986 remained highly
concentrated in two countries--Jamaica US$32.9 million (or 33.8% of CDB's
total OCR loan portfolio) and Guyana with US$16.9 million (or 17.32).
Barbados and Cayman Islands had outstanding OCR loans of US$16.0 million
(or 16.42) and US$9.7 million (or 102) respectively. The remaining 22.5%
consisted of loans to 13 other countries with each country accounting for
less than 52 of CDB's loan pottfolio.
10.     The quality of CDB's loan portfolio, both in terms of project
implementation and debt service in arrears has declined since 1982. The
number of 'Problem loans' in 1982 accounted for 36% of the total, reaching
48% in 1983 before declining to 402 in 1984 and further to 382 in 1985.
Although the above figures suggest that the deterioration of the portfolio
is slowly being reversed it is premature to conclude that there is, in
fact, a sustained improvement. Most of the CDB loans (excepting 27 private
sector loans) were made to Governments for projects; thus, deterioration in
debt service performance in those countries will continue to affect the
status of CDB public sector projects. CDB recognizes the importance of a
periodic (twice a year) review of its portfolio by managers of each Project
Division/Unit as a basis for formulating effective supervision work
programs and action for dealing with problem cases and for assessing the
progress being made in fulfilling the necessary supervision functions.
With the assistance of the Bank (LCPII) supervision mission, CDB developed
and successfully tested a practical analytical framework for such reviews
in February 1987. CDB's supervision manual adopted on March 20, 1987 calls
for such reviews at least twice a year.



- 66 -                           ANNEX 20
Page 4 of 7
11.    CDB's project supervision capabilities are being strengthened.
Manpower requirements for adequate supervision were reviewed recently and
measures have been taken to increase staffing. The recently adopted
supervision manual and proposed divisional portfolio reviews at least twice
a year would provide a basis for strengthening the supervision functions.
The Arrears Problem
12.     CDB has been confronted with a fairly widespread arrears
problem. However, by refusing to approve new loans to the countries
involved until arrears are cleared, it has managed to keep its borrowing
members (with the exception of Guyana and Antigua and Barbuda) from
accumulating substantial protracted arrears. Arrears to CDB from these two
borrowing members exceeded two years at the end of 1986. As of the same
date, overall interest and principal in arrears (US$21.2 million)
represented 6.62 of overall loan portfolio, including arrears on OCR loans
(US$12.5 million) at 12.8% of total OCR loan portfolio. The bulk of the
arrears was related to public sector loans (i.e., 'sovereign debt'
portfolio). In 1985 CDB placed its loans to Antigua and Barbuda and
Guyana in non-accrual status. CDB's exposure in Antigua and Barbuda
(US$11.3 million including US$3.5 million from OCR) and related arrears
(US$3.3 million including US$1.4 million on OCR) were relatively small. The
Guyana arrears situation has had a significant negative impact on CDB's
profitability in 1985 and 1986. CDB's exposure in Guyana totalled
US$34.8 million (consisting of US$16.9 million under OCR, US$17.0 million
under SFR and US$0.9 million under VTF), and the Guyana arrears totalling
US$13.2 million represented 62.3% of total overall arrears.
13.     At the end of 1985, CDB put all overdue loans to Guyana and Antigua
and Barbuda in non-accrual status and reversed interest and other charges
on loans to these countries accrued in 1983 and 1984. In accordance with
the recently adopted specific provisioning policy (para. 6(b)), CDB has
made provision of about US$3.8 million (including US$2.2 million under
OCR), representing overdue principal from Guyana and Antigua and Barbuda at
the end of 1986.
Financial Position and Financial Results
14.     After experiencing steep growth in 1981 (26%), CDB's OCR total
assets grew at a less rapid rate (10.4% in 1982, 6.6% in 1983, 6.0% in
1984, 2.8% In 1985 and 5.8% in 1986), reaching US$161.6 million at the end
of 1986. During this period, the structure of OCR assets has changed with
the gradual decrease in liquid assets in both relative and absolute terms
and with the increasing level of non-earning assets (including non-accruing
loans of $22.1 million). However, CDB's liquidity position still romained
comfortable. The growth in CDB OCR assets was financed almost entirely
through the increases in paid-in capital and, as a result, CDB's OCR
capital structure remained strong with the total debt to equity ratio of
0.6 : 1.
15.     CDB'e OCR net income had been relatively stable at around $3.5 -
3.9 million during 1981-83, but dropped sharply to $1.6 million in 1984,
due to restatement of the previously reported net income ($3.1 million) to



- 67 -                            ANNEX 20
Page 5 of 7
reflect the non-accrual policy.  OCR net income for 1985 rose to $3.4
million even after non-accrual of interest ($1.9 million) on certain loans
and loan loss provision of $3.5 million, thanks to the large windfall gain
of $4.5 million on foreign exchange. On the basis of reported net income,
OCR debt service coverage remained above unity (1.7 times for 1984 and 2.0
times for 1985). Even without the large windfall gain for 1985, OCR debt
service coverage would be above unity (1.5 times) despite an incresse of
debt service requirements (from $5.6 million in 1984 to $7.7 million in
1985). In 1986, OCR net income dropped to $0.9 million due mainly to non-
accrual of interest ($2.04 million) on loans to Guyana and Antigua and
Barbuda and specific provisions of $3.2 million made against these loans
and private sector loans. However, OCR interest coverage, on the basis of
reported net income, remained above unity (1.7 - 1.8 times in 1981-83, 1.3
times in 1984, 1.5 times in 1985 and 1.2 times in 1986). OCR debt service
coverage in 1986 was 1.5 times. The CDB Board of Directors has recently
approved measures which would compensate in due course for losses resulting
from the Guyana and Antigua and Barbuda provisoning (i.e., paying of
shareholders' maintenance of value obligations established at the end of
1986 by the end of 1987, the cashing of non-interest bearing demand notes
representing portions of shareholders' paid-in capital by the end of 1988,
and a general share capital increase in the future). These measures would
help CDB improve OCR profitablity in due course.
16.     SFR total assets increased from $210 million at the end of 1981 to
$332 million at the end of 1986. Liquid assets, which remained stable
during the period 1981-85 at around $55 million, increased to $66 million
in 1986 and accounted for 20X of SFR total assets; SFR loan portfolio
represented 64% of total assets. The balance (162) consisted of
receivables from contributions and other assets. SFR assets were financed
by donors' contributions (92%) and reserves (6%) with negligible liability
(2%). At the end of 1986, non-accruing SFR loans amounted to $31.5 million
or 15% of SFR loan portfolio. Against this, SFR reserves and accumulated
SFR provisions totaled $24.5 million at the end of 1986.   SFR net income
decreased from $5.2 million in 1984 to $3.4 million in 1985 and further to
$3.2 million, due mainly to nonaccrual of interest on certain loans and
large provisions made in 1985 and 1986.
17.     As prescribed in its Charter, CDB maintains entirely separate
accounts for OCR and for each of SFRs. Since inception, Price Waterhouse &
Co. have been CDB's auditors. None of their reports has been qualified.
In 1985, CDB, without objection from its auditors, placed in non-accrual
status all loans on which payment of interest, other charges or principal
was overdue for more than 12 months. Also, CDB introduced a general
provisioning policy whereby it annually charges against income a certain
percentage, to be determined each year, of total "sovereign debt portfolio'
for building up loan loss reserve. In consultation with the Bank CDB
replaced general provisioning against 'sovereign debt' with specific
provisioning policy in October 1986. For private sector loans,
provisioning will be based on estimated shortfall between outstanding loan
balance and most recent estimated value of collateral.
Prolected Overations and Finances
18.     CDB's lending program for the next five years (1986-90), proposed
by its Management, is as follows:



- 68 -                               ANNEX 20
Page 6 of 7
Table 3: CDB: PROJECTED LENDING PROGRAM (19116-90)
(in US$ million)
1986(a) 1987   1988   1989   1990   1986-90
OCR                         20     22     23      23     24      112
SFR                         25     25     27      30     32      139
(of which SDF)            L221   (22)   (24)   (27)   (30)    (125)
Total                       45     47     50      53     56      251
(a)  For actual results in 1986, please see Table 1 in para. 8.
19.      The above OCR lending program does not include structural
adjustment loans nor new OCR lending to Guyana. The projected total OCR
lending for the 1986-90 of $112 million (slightly less than the $117.5
million attained in the previous five years) and the projected level of
annual OCR lendiing volume of about $22.4 million (compared with the average
annual OCR loan spprovals of US$23.5 million in the past five years) are
reasonable.   In addition, a total of $139 million In SFR funds Is
projected to be cormitted, compared with $114.4 million during 1981-85.
SFR loans would represent about 55S of CDB's total lending in the next five
years, reflecting a larger allocation of SFR funds to the OECS, Belize, the
Turks and Caicos Islands, Jamaica, and Guyana. CDB's total lending of $251
million for the next five years would exceed the $232 million lent during
1981-85 because of the projected increase in SIR lending.
20.      In the light of the CDB Board of Director's recent decisions on
the payment of shareholders' maintenance of value obligations and on
specific provisioning, and predicated on the non-receipt of either interest
or principal on loans to countires in arrears to CDB for more than one
year, preliminary projections of CDB OCR's future financial condition and
performance were done. Summarized below aro the projected financial
results for OCR and key financial ratios, on the basis of unofficial CDB
assumptions regarding loan cancellation, arrears, capital contributions and
lending rates:



- 69 -                             ANNEX 20
Page 7 of 7
Table 4: CDBs PROJECTED FINANCIAL RESULTS AND KEY RATIOS
Actual                  Proiected
I1985     1986(a) 1987   1988   1989  1990
Net income (US$ million)         3.4        0.9    1.9    2.8    3.6    4.5
Ratios
Interest coverage                1.5        1.2    1.2    1.3    1.4    1.6
Return on average
total assets (2)               2.3        0.5    1.1    1.5    1.9    2.3
Return on average earning
assets (2)                      2.9        0.7    1.4    1.9    2.4    2.9
Reserves as X of net
loans (2)                      32.7       26.9   28.4   26.5   25.6   25.0
Total Debt to Equity             0.6        0.6    0.6    0.6    0.5   0.5
(a)  Actual (but on the basis of unaudited finacial statements).
OCR not income declined sharply in 1986 for the reasons explained in
para. 15, but thereafter is projected to improve gradually. CDB's
corporate strategy considered by its Board of Directors on the basis of the
management's proposals calls for, among other things, the strengthening of
CDB's OCR performance so as to facilitate CDB's capital market borrowings
on favorable terms.



- 70 -
ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 2
OECS REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.  Reports and Studies Relating to the Region
Eastern Caribbean Human Resources Development Sector Assessment, Miranda
Associates, Inc. (Prepared for U.S. Agency for International
Development), September, 1985.
Upgrading of Labor Market Reporting Systems in the Caribbean Region,
International Labor Office, Geneva, May, 1985.
Unemployment, Labour Market Information (LMI) and Policy Formulation: An
Assessment of Requirements for an Effective LMI System,
International Labor Organization, September, 1985.
Final Evaluation of OAS/AID Regional Non-Formal Skills Training Project,
February, 1985.
The Multi-Island Educational Development Project - A Preliminary
Assessment, UNDP, Barbados, July, 1986.
Plan of Operations for the Caribbean Examination Council Project, Canadian
International Development Agency, January, 1985.
OECS Regional Development Training Programs Final Evaluation Report, OECS
Economic Affairs Secretariat, Antigua, September, 1985.
B. Reports and Studies Relatint to the Beneficiary States
Labour Market Information for Decision-Making in Grenada, Ministry of
Planning (and Department of Labour), Grenada, October, 1984.
St. Kitts and Nevis Economic Memorandum, IBRD, April, 1985.
St. Vincent and the ,renadines Economic Situation and Selected Development
Issues, IBRD, October, 1984.
Economic Memorandum, Grenada, IBRD, May 1985.
Grenada Updating Economic Memorandum, IBRD, September, 1986.
Performance and Prospects of the St. Lucian Economy, IBRD, May 1985.
Dominica Priorities and Prospects for Development, IBRD, April 1985.



-71-                              ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 2
St. Christopher and Nevis, Education Sector Survey, UNESCO, May 1982.
St. Lucia, Education Sector Survey, UNESCO, April 1982.
C. Reports and Documents Relating to the Prolect
Selected Staff Working Papers
Description of the Project
Manpower Projections
Enrollments and Graduates by Country and Specialization
Instructor Requirements
Project Cost Tables
Terms of Reference for PIT Staff and Consultants
Country Policy Statements on Implementation of Cost-Saving Measures



IBRD  10611R3
r                    8
I.'>                                             THE CARIBBEAN AREA
cl 9      . -    aREAr A8ACO I.
rA              tS 3                                                Organization of Eastern Caribbean States Members (OECS)
PROIENCL ELEUTHERA ,          -                   ANTIcUA Caribbean  Development Bank Members
)$        1 Y\ CAT .                            -  -- International Boundaries
ANDHOS tS WAOYT.lNGS 1. "100 50  0                                         100    200    300    400
.>\LONG I."                                                      MILES
C                          '   A $       AyLvAGUaN.u                           100  0   100 200  300 400 500 600
(.                      AC% ISI           ACSI                                       KILOMEERS
_Kt          t    ACO 9 c
GREAT INAGaJA I.      F  rURKS IS.
200
CAYMAN 13.                             HAITI) D~~~~~~~OMIINICAN                  VIRGIN IS. IR),K
RIEPUBLIC                          IUS.    ANGURIiA
ST, MARTIN       OIARIIIII,A
*/c J                                              tJMAICA                                                     PUERTORtCO    ST. kl-r rs       AN___iUA
E L 3ELg                                                                                                               AND Nr VIS     M,(JNTs I 8tRH AA 
*r      L                                                                                                                                                  GUADELOUPE
)GUATEMALA-                                                                                                                                                         LDMINICA
r,_  HONDURAS                 _                                                                                                                          MARTINIQUE
$,T. VINGCI NYAH8AI'OS
INICARAGUA                                                                                 ARUBA
CU    8AO  rRERr NADA
BONAIRE
MARGARITA           TO"AGd
10COS-k{ RINI/AD                                                                                                                                        laNA
1PANAMA
CANAL/
I ~~~~~~ 
CARIFT4E5DSAC5I  lROTMIE                                 A         
la ] S]<g<e] a <                              2                           l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V E N L Z (J F L At
ANTIGUA    4S4 291 232  61  is JS   91. 321 SS$   17 4S  \__                                                                             C.UYANA 
|8ARADC2   214 1116 1   857 1020 570  I  254 177 
2 171 1259 1847 1716 17i.  _M 2222 2283 ___ __    _ _ _ 1                                                                    (                                    =)                    !!
.ENADA __4 322 97 271 1225 2         62 r__,40 we odf The WaV8e                       C    O      L  O        M       B      I    A?
GUYANA     353 534 SOT 99  897 1170                   cm,12mI FM0 dwral .) ow
JAMAICA     11231 232 29 -9S  991                     802 M mo0do ot1h,B4m0.flB
of The Wm" SW*8 eMd 818
MONTSERRAT  492 329 2 8  51                           t      Fe.&Ce.PoIwl                                                                                      _
ST. KIlTS   517 352 294                               o'Iirnmv8 a                                                                                          L. .J B  R  A Z    IL
230 _-        -- _'.                             6,w'.irewt ovpwe of                                                   ,                               '      
_T_Lu  IA  _210 _  148. ,,bo                                                                                                r             ,
921T1.9? 2l A77                                                                                                                                                                                 907
_                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~APRIL 1987



