Doument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C  A:  -t"sA ('S,'
Report No. P-4430-CRG
REPORT AND RECOMKENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
I NTEHNATIONAL DIEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DTRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
oF SDR 4.8 MILLION
To THE
EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES
FOURTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
April 2, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
The currency unit is the East Caribbean Dollar.
EC$1.00 - US$0.37
US$1.00 - EC$2.70
LIST OF ACRONYMS
AGFUND   -      Arab Gulf Fund
BDD      -      British Dsvelopmont Division
CARICOM  -      Caribbean Community
CGCED    -      Caribbean Group for Cooperation In Economic Development
CrDA     -      Canadian International Development Agency
CDB      -      Caribbean Development Bank
CXC      -      Caribbean Examination Council
ECCB     -      Eastern Caribbean Central Bank
EDF      -      European Development Fund
ILO      -      International Labor Organization
LMIS     -      Labor Market Information System
MOE      -      Ministry of Education
MOL      -      Ministry of Labor
NTB      -      National Training Board
OECS     -      Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
OPEC     -      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PIT      -      Project Implementation Team
RTB      -      Regional Training Board
UNESCO   -      United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
UNDP     -      United Nations Development Program
USAID    -      United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
EASTERN CARIBBEAN STQ'ES
FOURTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPKENT BANK
REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNrCAL EDtJCATION PROJECT
I.  IDA CREDIT AND PROJECT SUtMARY
Borrower/
Intermediary:      Caribboan Development Bank.
Beneficiary
States:            Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and
St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
Amount:             SDR 4.8 million (US$6.0 million).
Terms:             Standard IDA terms.
Onlending Terms:   Each of the 5 beneficiai  states would receive the
amount of IDA funds for thich it is eligible on the same
standard IDA terms provided by IDA to CDB, except that
the beneficiary states would pay CDS on a quarterly
basis; each beneficiary state would bear the credit and
foreign exchange risks for its portion of the credit.
The IDA commitment fee of 112% on the undisbursed
balance, which would begin to accrue on the
effectiveness date of the IDA credit or on a date 210
days after board presentation date, whichever Is
earlier, would be paid by the respective beneficiary
states. CDB's liabilities to IDA in respect of the
credit would be limited to amounts paid to CDB by sub-
borrowers in respect of their individual subloans. CDB
would assign to IDA its rights to contracts for subloans
made with IDA resources.
Cofinanciers:      Cofinancing for all equipment and furniture under the
proposed project (US$2.8M) would be provided by CDB
while 44% of the civil works (US$2.5 .) would be
cofinanced by the OPEC Fund.
Project
Description:       The proposed project would improve the quality and
quantity of trained manpower in the beneficiary states
by: (a) improving the quality of facilities and
instruction, (b) expanding training capacity, and
(c) enhancing sector management. It would include
construction, equipment and furniture for technician
training programs of 5 technical colleges; vocational
education programs of 7 senior secondary schools; and
prevocational education programs of 10 junior secondary
schools serving 80 feeder schools; plus, for each
project school, an initial stock of consumable
supplies/spare parts to be used in equipment maintenance
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnroae
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iI -
and in repair service programs (with coat-recovery).
The project would also include technical assistance in
support of training program development effort. (102
staff months of consultant services and 632 staff months
of fellowship training), establishing in each project
state a labor market information system with inter-
regional linkages (24 staff months), and conducting
feasibility studies on cost-saving/cost-recovery
macures in the education sector of all beneficiary
states (12 staff months).
Benefits and       The project Is expected to generate signlficant benefits
Risks              for the five participating countries by: (a) improving
national and subrogional planning procedures for human
reosources development; (b) developing training
capability and capacity, with the ultimate goal of
assuring adequately trained manpower for selected
subsectors of industrial development; (c) enhancing
sector management; and (d) incroasing worker
productivity. The risks are: (a) there is a possibility
that only 3 or 4 of the 5 countries may ultimately
participate In the project, in which case, the full
benefits anticipated would not be realized sad (b) there
may be considerable variability in implementation rates
among the countries, thereby causing delays in
implementation of project activities common to all of
the beneficiary states, particularly, technical
assistance and procurement of goods. While delays due
to project implementation complexities cannot be ruled
out, the probability of less than 5 countries
participating is low due to the strong commitment
expressed by all countries to it. Also, the expected
strong leadership from the Project Team in the CDB would
help to minimize any implementation/management problems.
Estimated Project Costs by Countries: a/
(including central project administration)
(US$ Million)
Local     Foreiz       Total
Dominica                                        0.5         1.0         1.5
Grenada                                         0.4        1.0          1.4
St. Kitts and Nevis                             0.6        1.3          1.9
St. Lucia                                       1.0        2.6          3.6
St. Vincent and the Grenadines                  0.8        2.2          3.0
Total Base Line Costs (1986 Prices)             3.3        B.1         11.4
Physical Contingencies                       0.3        0.8          1.1
Price Contingencies                          0.1        0.4          0.5
Total Project Cost:                             3.7         9.3        13.0
aI Net of taxe3 and duties.



- iii -
Project Financing Plan
Local      ForeiRn        Total
- ---- (US$ Million)--------
Governrmsnts             1.7          0.0          1.7
IDA                      0.9          5.1          6.0
CDB                      0.6          2.2          2.8
OPEC Fund                0.-5         2.0          2 $
Total           3.7          9.3          13.0
Theme estimates exclude taxeS from which the project components are exempt.
Estimated IDA Credit Disbursements:
uS$ Million
IDA FY       1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Annual         0.6    1.0    1.5    1.5    1.0    0.4
Cumulative    0.6    1.6    3.1    4.6    5.6    6.0
' Of Total   10.0   27.0   52.0   77.0   93.0  100.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Prolect
Completion Date:   June 30, 1993
Staff
Appraisal Report: Report No. 6490-CRG, dated April 2, 1987
Map: IBRD No. 10611R3



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT  qSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT IN
AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$6.0 MILLION
TO THE CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
1.       I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed IDA
credit to the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) to finance a multi-country
regional vocationalltechnical education project in five out of the seven
members of the Organization of the Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) for the
equivalent of SDR 4.8 million. The CDB would relend the proceeds of the
proposed IDA credit on the same terms except that the five beneficiary
states, namely Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St.
Vincent and the Grenadines, would pay CDB on a quarterly basis and each
state would bear the financial and foreign exchange risks of its portion of
the credit. Standard IDA tern would apply, except that the IDA commitment
fee of 1/2% on the undisbursed balance would be paid by the beneficiaries to
CDB for payment to IDA, which would commence at the effectiveness of the IDA
credit, or on a date 210 days after Board presentation date, whichever is
earlier. CDB would assign to IDA its rights to contracts for subloans made
with IDA resources.
PART I - THE ECONOMIES
Introduction
2.       Separate economic reports have been prepared and circulated to the
Executive Directors for five OECS countries: Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts
and Nevis, St. Lucia and St. Vincent and the Grenadines, based on Bank
missions during 1985 and 1986.2 A report entitled 'Caribbean Group: Current
Situation, Issues and Prospects", which was prepared for the meeting of the
Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (CGCED) has also
been circulated to the Executive Directors (October 17, 1986).
Recent Economic Performance - A Reaional Perspective
3.       The OECS is a common market formed in 1968 and belongs to the
larger 13-country regional integration organization -- Caribbean Community
(CARICOM). The basic premise of CARICOM is the creation of a protected
regional market within which regionally produced goods move freely. The
OECS countries also share a common currency (the East Caribbean dollar) and
1/ "Dominics: Priorities and Prospects for Development" (No. 5421-DOM),
April 15, 1985; "Economic Memorandum on Grenada" (No. 6292-GRD),
September 5, 1986; "Economic Memorandum on St. Kitts and Nevis" (No.
6500-CRG), December 24, 1986; "Economic Memorandum on St. Lucia' (No.
6585-SLU), October 10, 1986; and "Economic Memorandum on St. Vincent and
the Grenadines" (No. 6449-STV), November 25, 1986.



a central bank. The East Caribbean dollar i. linked to the US dollar (at
EC$2.7 - US$1.00 since July 1976) and, notwithstanding the recent declinq of
the US dollar, has come to be overvalued in varying degree. in each of these
countries, depending on their trading patterns. Any realignment of the
exchange rate would be possible only by a unanimous decision of all member
states. The benefits to the common market and currency arrangements are
accompanied by limits on the countries' freedom to act independently In
trade and nonetary policy. The brunt of economic management has
consequently fallen on fiscal policy.
4.       Growth performance in the 1980s for the five countries of the OECS
has been mixed, both over time and among countries. While moat of the
countries attained average GDP growth of 31 to 5Z, much of that growth is
attributable to the largely externally financed reconstruction and
rehabilitation activities following natural disasters in 1979 and 1980. The
world recession took its toll in 1983 and several islands registered
negative growth from which some bounced back strongly while others recovered
more slowly. The rate of economic recovery depended on the main commodity
exported by each country and the exchange rate behavior of the main export
markets. Banana exporting countries such as Dominica were negatively
affected by the depreciation of the pound sterling until February 1985,
while tourist centers such as Antigua and Barbuda benefitted from the
appreciation of the U.S. dollar.
5.       The economies exhibit common performance characteristics.  The
balance of payments current accounts show substantial deficits, though some
improvements have been recorded in recent years. External debt does not
pose problems, and the ratio of interest and amortization payments to
exports are below 15% in all countries. However, the ratio of debt service
payments to Central Government current revenues is significantly higher,
especially in Dominica and Grenada. Fiscal performance has shown an
improving trend in recent years, in most cases the result of improved public
sector operations; nevertheless, budgetary deficits are still prevalent.
Increases in the consumer price index have slowed considerably (to 21-3Z) in
the last two years, influenced by the decline in international inflation.
Manufacturing is largely undeveloped, accounting for less than 10X of GDP.
Unemployment is one of the moat serious social problems afflicting the
subregion. In some countries, the number of unemployed as a proportion of
the labor force is estimated to be about 252 or more. Provided below are
brief country-by-country assessments and a review of the policy issues which
need to be addressed. The Policy Dialogue Mission reports and the updating
economic memoranda prepared by the Bank for the OECS countries discuss the
policy issues in detail.
Country Assessments
6.       Dominica's economy was in a recovery phase during 1980-84 following
devastating hurricanes in 1979 and 1980. In 1985, growth slowed to 1.0%
with the completion of the roads project, but recovered to 4% in 1986 as a
result of a particularly strong performance in agriculture. Increases in
the consumer price indez have slowed considerably, averaging 2% in both 1984
and 1985 and 3% in 1986. Public sector finances have strengthened
significantly since 1980, reflecting stabilization efforts supported by an
IMF extended arrangement and continuing prudent public sector policies.



- 3 -
Whereas in 1981182 the public sector showed a current account deficit of
3.5% of GDP, in 1984185 it registered a surplus of 2% of GDP. Substantial
pressures, however, still exist on the fiscal system &a a result of recent
wage increases in the public sector. The main policy issues are the
promotion of public sector saving. and the need to develop a diversified and
competitive economic structure. The balance of payments current account
deficit, which was 35% of GDP In 1981, declined to 142 of GDP in 1983 and
rose to 21% In 1985. Dominica's development efforts in the last few years
involved a rapid accumulation of external debt. The debt outstanding and
disbursed now stands at 512 of GDP. Given its relatively weak balance of
payment. situation and its projected debt service obligations over the
medium term (11% of exports and 15% of Government revenue), the country
remains dependent on highly concessionary capital flows for most of its
investment financing, and can only be considered marginally creditworthy for
borrowing on non-concessionary terms. Dominica's medium-term prospects,
given successful implementation of the structural adjustment program now
being undertaken, are modestly favorable and would be expected to result in
annual GDP growth rate of 3.5% to 4.0% over the medium term.
7.       After declining by nearly 3% in 1983, primarily because of
political instability, GDP in Grenada rose by 2% in 1984 and by about 4% in
1985 and 1986. Inflation was about 2% in each of the last two years. The
main policy Issue relates to improving the financial situation of the public
sector. Current expenditures and revenues of the Central Government have
been roughly in balance over the last few years, but the fiscal situation
deteriorated sharply in 1986, with the current deficit reaching noarly 6Z of
GDP. In early 1986, the Government adopted a comprehensive tax reform
program, replacing most taxes with a Value Added Tax. However, starting-up
problems in the administration of the new system as well as several tax
exemptions and preferential rates resulted in lower than expected revenues.
On the expenditure side, the Government did not implement in 1986 a planned
pualic sector retrenchment program that would have reduced Central
Government employment by nearly 20Z. In 1984-86, there was substantial
budgetary support by USAID, and capital expenditures have been financed,
mostly by external grants. This assistance is expected to decline in the
coming years, implying a need to begin a process of adjustment in the fiscal
sector. Further measures are also needed to improve the incentive system
and the allocation of resources by reducing quantitative restrictions on
imports and limiting domestic price controls. The balance of payments
exhibits a basic disequilibrium with a large resource gap (302 of GDP)
covered largely by external grants. External debt stood at US$47.5 million
at the end of 1985. The debt service was 16% of exports or 22% of
Government revenue, and these ratios are projected to decline to 9% and 16%
respectively in 1990. Grenada's credF;worthiness for nonconcessional
lending is currently weak.
8.       GDP growth in St. Kitts and Nevis has averaged 1% p.a. in 1983-85
compared to over 5% in 1980-82 because of bad weather that affected both
sugar and non-sugar agriculture, and a slow-down in construction, in the
transport and telecommunication sectors and in government services.
Inflation was about 2% p.a. in the last two years. The financial situation
of the public sector deteriorated sharply in 1985, with the current deficit
of the Federal Government doubling to nearly 71 of GDP; and the burden
increased in 1986, when the domestic debt doubled to nearly EC$120 million.



Consequently, Interest payments on both domestic and foreign debt would
absorb about 252 of current revenues. Therefore, the most critical policy
issue faclng the country is the urgent need to improve the finances of the
public sector and halt the rime in the public debt. This will require the
formulation and implementation of a public sector adjustment program,
consistent with the recently completed five-year development plan. Another
issue of critical Importance Is the improvement of efficiency in the sugar
sector. External debt stood at about US$20 million at the end of 1985, and
debt service was 42 of exports and 9% of current revenues. However, given
the poor fiscal situation and uncertainty regarding the future of the sugar
industry, St. Kitts and Nevis' creditworthiness is currently soverely
limited.
9.       During 1982-84, real GDP in St. Lucia grew by an average of 42.
The strong economic performance continued in 1985-86 when GDP grew by 6%.
The economic perfonrance in 1985 and 1986 was led by ;rowth In agriculture,
manufacturing and tourism. The rate of inflation as measur-ed by the CPI
declined from more than 172 in 1980-81 to 22 in 1986. Unemployment remains
high, although It appears to have declined somewhat with the recovery in
economic activity; it is officially estimated at 18-202 of the labor force
(from an estimated 222 three years ago). The public finances have improved
noticeably and public sector savings rose from virtually zero in 1982 to
more than 6% of GDP in 1986. Similarly, the deficit in the current account
of the balance of payments has narrowed from 122 of GDP during 1983-B5 to 6%
in 1986. St. Lucia's debt service payments remain manageable (it stood at
2.9Z of exports of goods and non-factor services and 5.02 of Central
Government revenue in 1986). The total outstanding and disbursed debt was
only 17Z of GDP in 1986. The main policy issues facing the economy relate
to the relatively weak public sector finances and the buoyancy of wage
increases in the public sector. A program is in place to reorganize the
budget division of the Ministry of Finance to improve monitoring of
expenditures. With respect to wage policy, the Government has recently
established a tripartite committee (public sector, private sector sad trade
unions) to develop guidelines for wage negotiations in the public sector.
Assuming the successful redresn of the current fiscal situation,
continuation of appropriate sector policies and no external shocks to the
economy, GDP in St. Lucia could grow at 4-51 in the medium tern. The above
considerations, however, imply that creditworthiness for non-concessional
borrowing is limited.
10.      The economy of St. Vincent and the Grenadines has performed
moderately well since 1980, with GDP growth rate averaging 4.6% during 1980-
1985. GDP growth was sluggish In 1986, estimated at 2.5%, as a slight
setback in agriculture and construction occurred following a rainstorm in
the latter half of the year. The rate of inflation declined from 82 in
1981-83 to 21 in 1984-86. The public sector finances improved significantly
during the past four years, with public sector savings increasing from about
3% in 1985 to 72 in 1986. The Improvement resulted largely from the good
financial performance of the Central Government, which compensated for the
relatively poor financial performance of the public enterprises.
Substantial improvements in the balance of payments also occurred and the
leficit on the current account narrowed from 232 of GDP in 1980 to under 10%
in 1986 on account of strong improvements in exports. Because of the low
level of the total debt outstanding and disbursed (estimated at 282 of GDP
in 1985) and its concessional terms, the debt service to exports of goods



- 5 -
and non-factor services war only 42 in 1985 or 82 of Central Government
revenue. Despite the improved management of the economy, the supply
responae has been weak and whae is needed is to improve productivity and
output, and to boost exports. Other policy issues include the continuation
of efforts to strengthen the finances of the public enterprises and the
formulation of programs to r%duce the high level of unemployment in the
country. The Government expects ita ongoing Investment program to generate
job opportunities in the short term, while It establishes a skills training
program to equip labor for long term employment.  On the baom  of the
moderate economic performance of the recent past and assumption relating to
prudent management of the economy, improved performance of non-traditional
agricultura, manufacturing and tourism, and Inflow of project-related
external capital on a timely basis, it is projected that the growth rate of
GDP over the medium term would average about 5Z. St. Vincent and the
Gronadines could be considered creditworthy for limited non-concossional
resources.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
11.      The Bank Group lending strategy in the five OECS countries has been
to finance infrastructure, agriculture and power projects. The Bank Group
has channelled resources to the OECS countries through the Caribbean
Development lank (CDB) and has assisted directly only in cases where the
projects proposed were beyond CDB's financial or technical capabilities.
The Bank has provided under this approach two IDA credits totalling US$14
million to CDB, and one US$3 million Third Window operation in 1976 which in
addition to financing specific projects have also helped to strengthen CDB's
institutional capacity to appraise and implement investment projects. The
Bank expects to continue working closely with CDB in cofinancing development
programs in the OECS countries.
12.      IDA has also made four direct credits totalling US$18 million
between FY82 and FY87. The four operations, amounting to a total of US$8.0
million to Dominica for two projects US$5.0 million (Road Rehabilitation,
FY82), and US$3.0 million (Power, FY87), US$5.0 million to St. Vincent and
the Grenadines (Hydropower, FY84) and US$5.0 million to Grenada
(Agricultural Rehabilitation and Crop Diversification, FY85).
13.      The OECS countries have also benefitted from participation in the
CGCED; the Group has functioned under Bank leadership as an aid coordination
mechanism for the region. Through the work of the CGCED, the Bank has
conducted a dialogue with the Governments regarding their development
priorities and economic policies. Economic reports and project lists and
profiles have been prepared, submitted to donors, and discussed at country
subgroup meetings which have generally been held at the time of the
Caribbean Group meeting at 18-month intervals. In the context of the
preparation of these reports, Bank staff have maintained a dialogue with the
Governments on the formulation of the Public Investment Program. The
country subgroup meetings have focused attention on the central issues of
economic performance and priority financing requirements. The CGCED has
also promoted regional activities which have benefitted all recipient member
countries; these activities have included technical assistance programs for



- 6 -
energy, tourism, transportftion and securing of financing for private -sIctor
investment projects througn the establishment and financing of the operation
of the Caribbean Project Development Facility.
14.      The broad principles of the Bank's lending strategy In the five
OECS countries are spelled out in the Board document entitled 'Terms of
Lending to Small Island Economlo Graduating from IDA" dated November 18,
1985. The paper recognized that, while the OECS countries are above the IDA
cutoff point, they are not yet creditworthy to borrow from the Bank. Thus,
thoy face a transition prob?om moving from IDA to full Bank eligibility. To
facilitate the transition, the Board agreed that the projects already in the
pipeline for FY86-87 would be processed as IDA credits. For the IDA8 period
fY88-90, It is expected that some of the countrles would be conmidered
creditworthy for a limited amount of IBRD lending in which case they would
benefit from a blend of IBRDIIDA resources.
15.      The proposed Regional Vocational and Technical EducatLon project,
which aime at expanding the capacity and upgrading the quality of vocational
and technical education systems in the five OECS countries, fits within the
Bank'. overall strategy for accelerating economic growth and moving the OECS
countrLes toward creditworthiness.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Overall Development Context
16.      Unemployment, within the 18-20% range, is prevalent in most of the
OECS countries, with unskilled workers --especially young people--
suffering the brunt of the problem. At the same time, most OECS countries
report severe shortages of trained manpower, along with low rates of
productivity among existing workers. Despite relatively high quantitative
performance of the OECS education systems at the primary and general
secondary levels, most school leavers in these countries are not well
prepared for employment. The shortage of appropriate jolb skills among
existing skilled workers and technicians in virtually all soectors of
economic activity, combined with the resulting low rates of worker
productivity, presents an increasingly serious constraint to economic
development.  In addition, private enterprises in the various economic
sectors tend to be very small and types and levels of worker skills which
they require fluctuate widely. This requires in the OECS countries
broadly-oriented training programs to develop job skills with greater
ranges of applicability and mechaniLms which determine, and periodically
update, information concerning training needs within the countries and the
region.
Overview of Education in the Region
17.      While the OECS countries do not have a unified and coordinated
regional education system, their education structures are virtually
identical, reflecting their common colonial past. Primary school consists
generally of seven years (grades 1-5, plus 2 years of preschool education)
with enrollments, as a regional average, approaching 100% for the age group



- 7 -
(ages 5-11).  Secondary school enrolluenta (grades 6-12) range from 222 of
the age group (ages 12-18) In St. Lucia to 542 In St. Kitts and Navin. Tho
lower enrollment at th. secondary level has been due partially to the
limited number of available speces and to the fact that, in most of the
OECS countries, admilsion at this level is gained only by examination.
Governments in these countries are making special efforts to increase
acoos to secondary education through program expansion and restructuring.
While student participation in secondary education Is low, the gul3itv of
gnral oducatlon at both levels is relatively high.  The OECS countries
are seeking to improve and expand education opportunity at the secondary
level with assistance from bilateral sources and, particularly, the
Caribboen Examination Council (CXC), an organization with representation
from each country, which focuses on the common aspects of curriculum
improvement throughout the region. These efforts, in addition to impeioving
overall quality of education in the region, will improve concurrently the
quality of st.udents entering the vocational and technical education
programs.
18.      Students fe£ling to gain admission to secondary school. in tha
OECS countries are allowed to remain In the "all-mt-_rimsary-ochools"
through grade 9 or 10, although at present relatively few students choose
that option. As a basis for subsequent occupational study and job skill
dovelopment, these schools Include limited offerings in prevocational
education, usually provided on a 3-hours per day, 2-day per week schedule
in specialized training centers which serve a number of feeder schools.
The prevocational education programs are designed to develop in the early
'teen year." an awareness of occupations, Including use of tools and
equipment and the development of basic work skills, habits, and attitudes.
The OECS Governments propose to expand these prevocational programs to
serve more of the youth who otherwise grow up not knowing about work
possibilities and without a foundation for job preparation. To improve the
current system/structure of education, all DECS countries have initiated
junior secondary schools which accept a limited number of students from the
upper levels of the all-age-primary schools and offer them basic, pre-
vocational education along with the traditional general studies in a
comprehensive type of curriculum. Some of the larger secondary schools
operate as comprehensive schools also, offering opportunity for vocational
skills training. In all of the project countries, efforts are under way to
implement structural reform within the educational system and to update and
improve school curricula and grade-level articulation.
19.      The tertiary level of education includes programs for the
preparation of primary and general secondary school teachers, plus limited
offerings of first- and second-year university-level courses prodided by
the University of the West Indies Extra-Mural Studies Department. Only
St. Lucia offers preservice preparation of teachers for vocational and
prevocational subjects. Other OECS countries send their candiddtes abroad
(mostly to Jamaica) for teacher preparation in this area. Most OECS
countries have post-secondary technical colleges for the preparation of
technicians. However, as a means of improving administrative and
operational efficiency and strengthening program quality, several of these
colleges are now being brought under a community college structure with two
divisions: academic and technical.



- 8 -
The Vocational and Technical Education Subsectors
20.      Vocational education programs of the secondary schoolsJtraining
centers concentrate primarily on the preservice preparation of in-school
youth for entry-level employment as semi-skilled and skilled workers.
However, they also offer adult evening courses as in-service training In
such specializations as demand warrants and this would increase under the
project. Training specializations at this level include building trades,
metalwork, electricity (equipment repair), auto mechanics, home economics
(tourism, hotels, garment making, etc.) agriculture, and clerical/
stenography. The preservice day-school programs, generally 3 years in
duration (grades 9-11), accept students from both within, if comprehensive
secondary schools, and from surrounding "feeder" schools for approximately
6 hours of practical skills training per week (2 days of 3 hours each).
General education and other normal education support is provided in the
feeder (home) school. Adult evening courses vary in weekly contact time
depending on the type of course and clientele needs.
21.      Technical Education was initiated by most of the OECS countries
during the early 1970s when small 2-year, post-secondary technical colleges
were established to provide job preparation for youth of age 16-plus and
for adults. These colleges offer training programs of greater scope and
depth than the vocational schools and typically provide instruction in such
areas as building trades, cabinet and furniture making, automotive, general
metals, electrical installation, radio-television repair, air conditioning
and refrigeration, tourism and commerce, and, where not provided elsewhere,
in home economics/tourism, secretarial science, and agriculture. Adult
training programs are in considerable demand and are provided by all
colleges, normally as evening offerings. As with vocational education,
because of r- ious space and/or equipment limitations, technical education
programs are presently inadequate for the growing needs of the business,
industry, agriculture, ard service sectors in all OECS countries.
Issues in Vocational and Technical Education
22.      A major constraint to industrial development in the OECS region is
the low quality of training programs and the resulting low level of skills
proficiency among the work force. Graduates of training programs are
inadequately prepared for employment and, because of their shortcomings,
product quality and worker productivity remain low. As a result,
industries of the OECS countries find it increasingly difficult to compete
successfully in the market place. This situation results, at least in
part, from the fact that voca.ional and technical education programs in the
OECS region have not yet attained the necessary standards required for
preparation of quality graduates. Training programs (both preservice and
inservice) for the preparation of skilled workers and technicians in the
region are suffering from poorly qualified teachers, inadequate and
outdated instructional equipment, unsuitable training facilities, and
training curricula and instructional methodology which generally need to be
up-dated and made more relevant to employer needs. Resolution of these
problems must receive special attention in Governmental plans to support
industrial development efforts in the member states.



23.      Inadeauate vocational and technical training capacity to meet
long-term needs for human resources development also causes growing
concern. Total employment in the projoct beneficiary states in 1983 was
approximately 123,000 workers, of whom about 16,000 (13%) were estimated to
have been employed at the skilled worker and technician levels. No
official figures are currently available from the countries on long-term
manpower needs; however, IDA staff estimates indicate an increased domand
over the next decade at a rate of about 3 percent per year to allow for
economic growth and about 2 percent per year for attrition and normal
employee turnover. Thus, it is estimated, based on a country by country
sectoral analysios that during the decade of 1987-96, there will be a
continued total need among combined economlc sectors in the project
beneficiary states for an average of about 1,050 newly trained workers per
year at the skilled and semiskilled worker and technician levels.
Current preservice training output of about 600 newly-trained workers per
year at these levels is clearly insufficient to meet the long-term
development needs. In addition to the inadequate capacity for preparing
now workers, inservice training opportunities for existing workers are
considerably less then those needed for industrial development. In
response to identified training needs, individual and organizational
demands are increasing for part-time inservice training of employed adults,
generally in evening courses, as a means of improving their job skills and
increasing worker productivity. The need for such training is especially
acute among the approximately 16,000 skilled workers and technicians
currently employed in the project beneficiary states. Employer
contributions to inservice training are almost non-existent due to the
small size of most enterprises.
24.      The OECS countries generally lack an integrated approach,
internally and regionally. to manpower planning and development and to
providing special training courses to meet regional needs in cases where
the costs of offering courses nationally are prohibitive. In response to
individual country concerns, ministries of education in the OECS countries
are establishing National Training Boards (NTBs) with representation from
the public and private sectors, including both employers and workers, for
advising the respective ministries on manpower training needs and curricula
content. Additionally, the International Labor Organization (ILO) has
assisted some OECS countries (notably Grenada) in establishing preliminary
labor market information systems (LMIS) to support planning for such
training. However, this initial effort needs to be strengthened through
cooperative arrangements with the NTBs and direct involvement from
employers in each respective country. It also needs to be expanded among
the OECS countries into a common-based LMIS, with intra-regional linkages,
-which allows for regional approaches to manpower planning and development.
The regional aspect of the training coordination concern would be addressed
in this proposed project.
Education Finance
25.      The project beneficiary states have experienced varying degrees of
difficulty since their recent independence in meeting the recurrent costs
of their Governmental operations. They have generated inadequate
surpluses, relying on external grants and loans to finance a large
proportion (if not all) of their capital investments. The 1985 current



- 10 -
surpluses of the central Government budgets in these countries amounted to
0.52 of GDP in Dominica, 0.72 in Grenada, and 4.82 in St. Vincent and the
Gronadines, with a 0.9% deficit in St. Lucia and a 6.7% deflcit in St.
Kltts and Pavis. Because the education sector absorbs a large portion of
Governmental funds, special efforts are being made to economize to the
extent possible while still maintaining a viable education system. The
public coats of education in the OECS countries are relatively high,
accounting for between 152 and 242 (with an average of 18.62) of the
Governmental budgets (1984-85), and between 3% and 6.42 (with an average of
4.52) of GDP. The budgetary annual percentages compare with an overall
average of 16.92 for all countries in the Latin America and Caribbean
Region, while the average percentage of GDP is approximately the same as
the overall regional average.
26.      The costs of vocational and technical education in the project
beneficiary states, except for minor student fees, are financed through
regular budgetary appropriations to the respective Mlnistries of Education.
Generally, only the technical colleges have separate allocation categorles
in the Governmental budgets. They therefore have greater flexibility and
incentive for implementing innovatlve approaches to cost reduction. Over
the period 1981-1985 the education proportion of total Governmental
expenditures in the project beneficiary states has remained relatively
stable, but Governments are now finding it increasingly difflcult to
maintain, let alone to increase, this share. Any provision for new or
expanded programs will have to come from curtailment of some other
services, andlor through increased cost-effectiveness and cost-recovery
measures in the education sector. The proposed project would stimulate
development of initiatives for increased cost-effectiveness and cost-
recovery in education.
Government Strateties for Development of Vocational and Technical
Education
27.      Major themes of Government strategy for human resources
development throughout the project beneficiary states have been increased
output and higher quality of newly-traLned workers, improvement of job
skills among those already employed, special training for the unemployed,
and imprn-ed mechanisms, both within couatries and regionally, for
determining training needs. Current plans of the respective Governments
call for:
(a) increasing the capacity of vocational and technical education
programs and the provision of preservice training in a broader
range of job skills with greater job relevance for a major portion
of the 13-16 year age group to ensure their leaving the education
system better prepared for effectLve employment;
(b) provision of inservice training during non-working hours for
employed workers;
(c) provision of courses for out-of-school youth and unemployed adults,
with a more equitable distribution of training opportunities among
special needs groups; and



- 11 -
(d) strengthening the institutional base for human resources develop-
mont, including improvement in the quality and provision of basic
education and prevocational education.
Some assistance for attaining the objective under (c) and (d) has been
provided by UNESCO and several bilateral donors, including a multi-state
project financed by UNDP and the Arab Gulf Fund (AGFUND), which was
implemented in the region during the October 1983 - December 1985 period.
The main objective of the project was to establish a prevocational skill
learning program for the junior secondary age-group (12-15 years) in
secondary and all-age primary schools as a base for subsequent acquisition
of more advanced vocational skills. UNESCO and ILO assisted in
implementation of the project. There have been other sources of foreign
assistance for limited support of vocational and technical education and
occupational training, though these efforts too have been minimal, leaving a
continuing substantial void in the subsector. In general, NGO support in
the beneficiary states tends to be sporadic and not well focused on long-
term initiatives in the education sector. Coordination of these activities
is mostly under the Ministries of Education. This proposed project would
build upon and complement accomplishments of the UNESCOIAGFUND project and
other similar activities in the sector by consolidating all vocational and
technical training efforts under a single coordinated system.
Bank/IDA Strategy for Development of Vocational and Technical Education in
Prolect Beneficiary States
28.      The proposed project would be the Bank's first education lending
operation in the OECS countries. Bank/IDA strategy in the vocational/
technical education subsector, in conformity with the Governments'
priorities, focuses on supporting the project beneficiary states' efforts to
increase labor productivity and industrial output and to improve the quality
of goods and services. It calls for expanding and upgrading skills training
to meet critical manpower needs in the industry, commerce, agriculture, and
service sectors, while addressing issues related to increasing quality and
efficiency in training programs. This strategy would also support skills
training for various disadvantaged groups, such as school drop-outs, along
with skills training leading to self-employment or income supplementing
opportunities for low-income individuals and families and for the
unemployed. In view of the serious financial constraints in the education
sector, the Governments' adoption of improved efficiency, cost effectiveness
and cost recovery measures In the sector would be encouraged. The education
systems within the project beneficiary states, which originate from their
common historical past, are similar and offer good scope for a regional
development approach.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
29.      The proposed project was identified and prepared by the five
beneficiary states with assistance from UNESCO. It was jointly pre-
appraised by IDA and CDB in August/September 1985, and IDA completed



- 12 -
appraisal in January 1986. Post-appraisal discussions were held by IDA and
CDB with the project beneficiary states in October of 1986 to resolve
outstanding issues. Negotiations were held in Barbados during the week of
March 23-27, 1987 with participation by representatives from IDA, CDB, and
the project beneficiary states.
Project Objectives and Scope
30.      The proposed project would focus on improving the quality and
quantity of trained manpower in the project beneficiary states by seeking
to: (a) improve the quality of instruction; (b) expatnd training capacity;
and (c) enhance sector management. It would initiate a regional approach to
improving vocational and technical education systems within the five OECS
countries/beneficiary states, throughc (a) expansionfrehabilitation of
vocational/technical school facilities, including purchase of new equipment
and addition of new classrooms and shops; and (b) technical assistance to
improve the quality of vocationall technical education and to conduct
feasibility studies for policy improvements in education, including
education finances, increased efficiency of the system, and enhancement of
cost recovery. Individual subproject components of the beneficiary states
are presented in Annex IV; the following paragraphs detail their
contribution to achieving project objectives.
Improving the Quality and Relevance of Instruction
31.      The project would include upgrading and updating curricula, course
content, instructional aids, training staff, and instructional evaluation
procedures/standards under leadership of a Vocational and Technical
Education (VTE) Adviser to be employed under the project. Staff upgrading
would be accomplished through fellowships abroad for about 59 vocational
and 23 technical instructors plus 4 maintenance technicians, as a means of
upgrading instructional procedures and methodology. Apprenticeship
training programs would be initiated on a pilot basis at the senior
secondary and college levels and, in general, would require a full-time
equivalent of about six months direct, on-job experience in the
occupational field for which training is being received, though the pattern
would vary depending on individual country conditions. Students
participating in the work practice phase of the program would be paid a
minimal stipend by the host employer. The pilot programs would extend over
a four-year period and those which prove to be successful would be expanded
and replicated in other schools to the extent possible and appropriate.
The apprenticeship program would be linked to a graduate placement program
to assist graduates in obtaining first-time entry-level employment. As is
common practice, individual instructors would be responsible for
coordinating employment arrangements. Additionally, entrepreneurship
training courses would be offered on a pilot basis, initially in the
technical colleges, to assist individuals in learning to establish and
manage small enterprises and to seek sources of venture capital for initial
development and operation.
32.      In addition to the usual preservice training in the project
schools, special emphasis would be given in evening classes to the training
of unemployed adults and out-of-school youth in broad-based "clusters of



- 13 -
related skills," thus providing needed flexibility in meeting the demands
of the labor market for semi-skilled workers with a variety of job skills.
Cooperative apprenticeship and "day release" training schemes with industry
would be expanded within the project achools to more rapidly and
efficiently upgrade the skills requirements of employed workers.
33.      All project beneficiary states are establishing NTBs to assist in
determiring local training needs and to advise the respective Ministries of
Education on curricula content and relevancy to actual employer/job
requirements. Sub-loan agreements between CDB and the beneficiary
countries would require each beneficiary country to certify to CDB, no
later than six months after credit effectiveness, that its respective NTB
is operational and to provide names, periods of appointment, areas of
expertise, and employer affiliation of its members. Under the project, the
NTBs would be strengthened and become involved to a greater extent in
maintaining up-to-date training programs which are more responsive to
employer and trainee needs. The NTBs would help to establish both formal
and informal institutional contacts with the agriculture, industry, and
commerce sectors and would assist in obtaining feedback on Job performance
of training programs graduates. They also would provide guidance, through
the Ministries of Education, to their respective Governments for
establishing or expanding the labor market information systems for project
beneficiary countries. The NTBs would be linked to a proposed Regional
Training Board in order to enhance coordination of manpower information
systenon and training programs on a regional basis.
Expanding Training Capacity
34.      The proposed project would help to expand training capacity and
improve the quality of existing facilities so that the vocational/technical
education systems can respond more effectively to training needs of
individuals and employers. Construction, equipment and furniture would be
provided for: (a) replacement of facilities and equipment for one technical
college (St. Lucia), partial renovation of existing spaces and provision of
equipment for three technical colleges (Dominica, Grenada, St. Vincentl
Grenadines), and provision of equipment only for one technical college (St.
Kitts/Nevis); (b) provision of new or expanded training facilities and
equipment for vocational programs of 7 senior secondary schools/training
centers and for prevocational programs of 10 junior secondary schools
serving students from about 80 feeder schools; and (c) provision of an
iniitial stcck of consumable supplies (including scpplies for repair shops),
at an average cost of about US$60,000 per project beneficiary state, for
use in project-assisted schools on a revolving cost-recovery basis.
Equipment to be procured in the project would include spare parts for
maintenance. Sub-loan agreements between CDB and participating countries
would require that no later than June 30, 1988, the respective beneficiary
countries would provide to CDB a formal plan for regular maintenance of
instructional equipment and facilit'es for their individual vocational and
technical education programs. Planned training capacities for the
respective sectors in each participating country are based on the current
projection of manpower needs over the next decade. However, as the
programs will be relatively broad, there will be a degree of flexibility
for adapting to changing manpower demands over the long-term. Upon
completion of project implementation, the additional training capacity to



- 14 -
be provided would require an increase in instructional staff in the region
of about 50 vocational instructors, 13 technical instructors, and 2
maintenance technicians, a major part of the expected increase in recurrent
coats. An adequate number of technically qualified individuals are
available within the project beneficiary countries to meet these additional
requirements. However, they would need refresher courses in their
technical specializations and updated knowledge on instructional
methodology. This would account for a sizeable portion of those to receive
special instructor training under the project's fellowship program.
Enhancing Sector Management
35.      Labor Market Information Srstem (LMIS).  The project beneficiary
countries, with assistance from a project manpower specislist(s), would
establish in their respective Ministry of Education or other appropriate
Ministry, a LMIS for conducting labor marketijob analysis studies. The
LMIS would collect, generate, and analyze information on population trends,
the labor force, wage rates and earnings, labor mobility and turnover,
manpower and training needs, training capacity, etc. Processing of this
information would be accomplished by use of a microcomputer to be purchased
under the project for each participating country. Such information would
be disseminated to various government agencies for planning and training
purposes. The NTBs, operating under the Ministry of Education, would be
directly involved with this activity, mostly in an advisory capacity.
Preliminary work in such an effort, including completion of job analysis
studies, has already been initiated in Grenada. In addition, the ILO has
conducted a number of seminars in the region to assist in preliminary
reviews of needs for such activities. A similarly qualified organization,
or individuals, would be contracted in accordance with IDA guidelines for
hiring consultants, to provide the manpower specialists for establishing an
effective labor market informatLon system with regional linkages in all
project beneficiary countries. IMIS representatives from participating
countries would meet periodically on a regional basis to ensure regional
coordination of the manpower system.
36.      Regional Training Board.  The project would include a review by
the VTE Advisor, working closely with the OECS Secretariat, of the scope,
responsibility and authority of the individual country National Training
Boards and expected requirements for a proposed Regional Training Board
(RTB) to operate under the proposed project in close cooperation with the
OECS Secretariat. A subsequent draft report with recommendations based on
the review would be submitted to the OECS countries, OECS Secretariat, CDB,
and IDA for comments and approval. The OECS countries would implement,
through the Secretariat, the recommendations relative to establishing the
Regional Training Board and initiating its program of work. Membership on
the RTB is expected to comprise the technical education officer in each
country plus one representative from the respective NTBs. Resources for
the six-year period of project implementation would be provided under the
project to cover the costs of personnel and administrative support (OECS
coordinator and clerical staff member at one-third time for six years of
project implementation), materials, supplies, printing, etc., plus travel
and operational costs for meetings of the Regional Training Board and for
representatives of the labor market information systems of each country.
Such funding would be made available on an annually declining basis to



- 15 -
enable individual countries to integrate the coats into their annual
budgets for its continuation. It is envisaged that the RTB would have the
following purposes: (i) planning, programming and implementation of
training specializations which would be uneconomical for a single country
to undertake. With cooperation of individual country technical education
officerst region-wide needs would be indicated, much as course syllabi
development, special inservice instructor training, improvement of
institutional management, seminars on effective and economic cost recovery
techniques for reducing net costs of consumable supplies, and other
priority needs; (ii) standardization of curricula, testing, skilled worker
certification, and regional infrastructure programs. Specialized courses
presently organized in an ad hoc manner in the various OECS countries
attract students from other member countries. To maximize benefits from
this type of training, some common curricular elements are required; (iii)
organization and establishment of regional arrangements for production and
procurement of educational materials; i.e., textbooks and essential
equinment; (iv) regionalization of the manpower labor information system
whica would be implemented under the project on an individual country
basis. Though restrictions exist relative to labor movement within the
region, it does happen on an informal basis.
37.      Cost-savings in Education. In view of current financial
constraints in the project beneficiary states, the Governments concerned
are seeking ways to ease the situation without sacrificing their basic
education systems and the quality of their education. Aware of the need,
some Governments have already been considering certain measures, including
the feasibility of combining the technical college with the general college
to form a comprehensive community college under a single administration.
This has already been done in Dominica and St. Lucia. General education
courses in the college would then be shared by both groups (technical and
general), with a resulting decrease in course duplication, concurrent with
a decrease in total administrative costs.
38.      The proposed project would make provision for conducting, in all
project beneficiary states, broadly based feasibility studies aimed at
cost-savings and cost-recovery in education. These would include studies
to determine the feasibility of: (i) improving training efficiency in the
technical and vocational school programs by increasing class size where
possible and by merging some technical and skill courses which are common
to several training specializations and thus increasing the student-teacher
ratios; (ii) initiating student fees in the technical colleges and
providing scholarships and student loans to those unable to pay; (iii)
initiating cost recovery schemes through training program services (auto
mechanics, radio-television repair, etc.); and (iv) providing textbooks on
a cost recovery basis with students paying a user's fee. Two education
finance specialists would be provided under the project for six months each
to assist each project beneficiary country in conducting the cost
recoverylsavings studies in accordance with terms of reference acceptable
to CDB and IDA. During negotiations, CDB obtained and provided to IDA a
statement describing each country's policy on implementing cost-saving
measures in the education sector. The proposed studies would provide the
basis for implementing such policies. Feasibility studies on cost-savings
and cost-recovery possibilities would be completed and provided to CDB and
IDA for their comments by December 31, 1988. Sub-loan agreements between



- 16 -
CDB and the beneficiary countries would require the countries to inform CDB
and IDA by June 30, 1989 regarding the measures which they propose to adopt
as a result of the studiea.
Technical Assistance
39.      The proposed project would include a comprehensive technical
assistance package for fellowships and project-related consjltants'
services, the latter of which would be contracted under a single firm.
This technical assistance would include common elements serving the needs
of 5 countries and has been designed in a way to ensure it's provision in a
cost effective manner. The consultants' services would be as follows: (i)
vocational-technical education advisor to assist and supervise refinement
of curricula, course syllabi, institut"onal management policies and
planning procedures, and national and regional training board policies and
procedures (48 staff-months); (ii) procurement specialist for preparation
and implementation of procurement actions for project equipment and
furniture (equivalent of about 36 staff-months); (iii) manpower planning
specialist for helping to establish a labor market information system in
each project country (equivalent of about 24 staff-months); and (iv) an
education financial specialist (total of 12 staff-month.) to help conduct
feasibility studies on cost recovery in education in all beneficiary
states. An architectfconstruction engineer would be provided by CDB for
review and advice on, and approval of, project civil works designs and
construction (18 staff-months); The project consultants and CDB specialist
would comprise a Project Implementation Team (PIT), to be headquartered at
the CDB in Barbados, which would work under the direction of a Project
Coordinator. Costs of the PIT, which would be included in the total
project costs, would be borne by each project beneficiary state
proportional to its subproject's costs, as presently estimated. Fellowship
training abroad under the proposed project would be provided for
instructors, supervisors, and equipment maintenance specialists '632 staff-
months). Terms of reference for the proposed technical assistance
specialistsffirms; qualifications and criteria for selection of fellowship
candidates; a plan and schedule for fellowship training; qualifications for
the Project Coordinator and the local Project Managers; and dates for
actual employment of the technical assistance specialists after credit
effectiveness have been reviewed by IDA and were confirmed and agreed
during negotiations. CDB would recruit and contract, on behalf of the
beneficiary country Governments, the technical assistance firm described
above for assignment to the CDB's PIT under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. CDB selection and country approval of the technical
assistance firm and confirmation of appointment of the CDB architect/
construction engineer would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Project Costs and Financing
40.      Investment Cost Estimates.  The total cost of the proposed
project, which would be exempt from taxes and duties, has been estimated at
EC$35.1 million or about US$13.0 million equivalent, of which US$9.3
million equivalent (722) would be in foreign exchange. Estimated project
costs have been grouped according to: (a) the direct in-country component;
i.e., five distinct subcomponents (subprojects -- one for each country),
including the estimated costs for civil works, goods, and fellowships, and



- 17 -
(b) the regional component, the costs of which would be distributed among
the beneficiary states proportional to the cost of their respective in-
country components, as presently estimated. If less than five project
boneficiary states ultimately participate in the proposed project, the
proposed credit allocations for in-country components pertaining to non-
participating states would be cancelled and adjustments would be made as
necessary in the estimated per-country costs of the PIT and other regional
services.   The costs of these regional components, to be included under
the proposed credit, would be distributed among the remaining beneficiary
states proportional to the costs of their country components: i.e., civil
works, goods, and fellowships.
41.      Basis of Cost Estimates.  All cost estimates are based on October
1986 figures. Cost estimates for civil works in the respective countries
are based on costs of similar structures recently constructed. Equipment
and furniture costs are based on costs of similar equipment and furniture
recently procured in the area. Costs of technical assistance are estimated
on the basis of similar services being used in the region. Foreign
exchange costs are estimated at 801 for civil works and for equipment and
furniture and 1002 for technical assistance. Physical contingencies would
amount to 102 of total base costs. Price contingencies (calculated as an
average for all participating countries) have been used for both local and
foreign costs as follows: 32 for 1987, 1% for 1988 through 1990, and 3.51
for 1990 through 1993. The same price contingencies have been used for
both local and foreign costs as, historically, inflation rates in the OECS
countries have been, on average, similar to those in the United States.
42.      Financing Plan.  The financing plan for the total estimated
project cost of about US$13.0 million equivalent would provide for lending
on a joint basis by IDA and the OPEC Fund and on a parallel basis with
CDB. The CDB would finance 100% of the equipment and furniture costs while
the OPEC Fund would finance 44% of civil works costs. IDA financing would
cover the remaining 561 of civil works and all technical assistance.
Additionally, there will be counterpart contributions totaling US$1.7
million equivalent by the project beneficiary states. The proposed IDA
credit of US$6.0 million equivalent, co be channeled through CDB, would
finance about 462 of total project ct'sts. including about 542 of foreign
costs. The CDB would lend separately to the project beneficiary states a
total sum of US$2.8 million to finance about 222 of the total estimated
project costs, including about 24% of the foreign exchange costs; the OPEC
Fund would lend US$2.5 million which would finance 19% of total project
costs, including 222 of foreign costs. A condition for effectiveness of
the proposed IDA credit would be that all conditions for effectiveness of
the corresponding OPEC Fund loan agreements, other than effectiveness of
the corresponding IDA credit agreement or of the CDB loan agreements, have
been met. (The OPEC Fund Governing Board approved its portion of the
project loan on November 19, 1986). The remaining project costs would be
financed by the beneficiary state Governments.
43.      As in the case of the proposed project's recurrent costs, the
project beneficiary states' abilities to contribute their shares of the
project's capital costs during the proposed project's implementation



- 18 -
period, FY1988 through 1993, weill depend on their continued willingnoes to
attribute to the project a high priority in their budgetary plans and to
arrange their investments accordingly within the public sector during the
project implementation period. However, a portion of local implementation
costs (local project manager, professional support staff, and, in some
cases, local architects) are for individuals already employed by the
respective governments and thus will require, for the most part, only
adjustments and reassignment of existing staff. The project beneficiary
states' share of the proposed project's capital cost, about US$1.7 million
on a regional basis (including contingencies) and to be contributed over
the next six years, would amount to an average of about US$60,000 per year
per country. This would be equivalent (on the basis of their average 1983-
84 budgetary data) to less than 4% of their current annual capital
expenditure. While this indicates that there should be no serious problem
for the beneficiary states to meet their shares, there may be some
difficulty in individual country cases. Should such problems arise, IDA
would review them in its annual economic dialogue with the countries and
during project supervision to ensure that budget allocations are made in
advance for this purpose. Furthermore, CDB sub-loan agreements with the
countries would require assurances from their respective governments that
adequate counterpart funds for project implementation would be provided in
each annual budget.
Commitment Fees
44.      To achieve the project's objective it is essential that the credit
become effective for the majority of the countries concerned as rapidly as
possible. The credit would become effective when at least three countrie'
have completed the general conditions for credit effectiveness, the
technical assistance firm has been contracted, and the architect/
construction engineer formally appointed. Countries which have not met
these conditions by September 30, 1987 would be dropped from the project
and their credit allocations cancelled. To avoid penalizing fast moving
countries, which could not draw upon the credit resources because of
administrative delays in other countries, it is recommended that the
comitment fee be charged only upon credit effectiveness, as was the case
under the Third CDB Project (Cr. 1364-CRG), or on a date 210 days after the
board presentation date, whichever is earlier.
CDB: The Intermediary Borrower
45.      The Caribbean Development Bank would be the Intermediary Borrower
of the proposed IDA credit and would relend the credit proceeds to the
beneficiary states under IDA terms, except that the beneficiary states'
payments to CDB would be made on a quarterly basis. The legal framework
would be similar to the pattern established under the previous IDA credit
to CDB (Cr. 1364-CRG, May 1983). The CDB, established in 1970, has matured
into a capable regional development bank. It has a particularly important
role to play in channeling external resources to countries like those in
the OECS which experience problems in mobilizing resources directly because
of their small size. The economic difficulties of some member countries
led them to accumulate arrears to CDB; to deal with the situation, CDB has
adopted appropriate policies on suspension of disbursements, non-accrual
and provisioning. Only two countries are currently subject to such



- 19 -
measures and CDB'. strong capital base and abundant liquidity should allow
it to weather the difficulty. In consultation with IDA, CDB is in the
process of taking measures to strengthen its policies and procedures,
particularly in supervision and portfolio control aspects. In this regard,
CDB adopted on March 20, 1987 a revised supervision manual and developed
and successfully tested a new divisional portfolio review system. Adoption
of these measures, provision of the technical assistance consultants, and
establishment of the PIT in the CDB, should enable CDB to act as an
effective coordinating agency for the project.
Implementation and Supervision
46.      Each country would bo fully responsible for implementing, with
cdvice and assistance as appropriate from the project's technical
consultants, its respective in-country components, and each has appointed a
local Project Manager (PM) for this purpose. CDB would be responsible for
coordination and supervision of the overall project, including
implementation of the regional component; i.e., technical assistance,
procurement, and implementation, in conjunction with the OECS Secretariat,
of the proposed RTB. The CDB has established for this purpose the PIT,
headed by a full-time, IDA approved, Project Coordinator (PC) reporting
administratively to the Senior Manager of the CDB's Project Services
Division (PSD) in the Projects Department, and comprising, in addition to
the PC, the Senior Manager of PSD an architectlconstruction engineer from
CDB's Infrastructure Division, and the technical consultants to be
contracted under the project. CDB, as agent for the project countries,
would arrange for procurement of furniture and equipment, with each
decision in this respect being made only after the local PMs have been
given two weeks to object. The same procedure would be used in contracting
the technical assistance firm. The PC would be responsible for planning
and programming of consultant activities, coordinating with local Project
Managers, budgeting project credit funds, making field visits to assess
effectiveness of implementation, and resolving outstanding issues, as
necessary. As current project supervision activities in CDB are a normal
function of its Project Services Division, the Division's capabilities in
this regard would be enhanced through its PIT responsibilities under the
project. The Project Coordinator would be the main point of contact
between IDA and the project beneficiary states for all of the project's
country related matters. In thio regard, the Project Coordinator would
maintain strong communication and working linkages with the individual
Project Hanagers in each of the project countries. Under this arrangement,
IDA would retain normal supervision responsibility to help ensure that
resources allocated for the project are used effectively. Any subsequent
replacement of the Project Coordinator would be subject to IDA concurrence.
To assist the Project Coordinator and project consultant advisors, two
support staff (one full-time and one part-time for a total of 90 staff-
months) would be included in the PIT. Costs of the Project Coordinator and
support staff services would be shared by the project beneficiary states as
part of the regional component.
47.      The project consultants (VTE advisor, education finance
specialist, procurement specialist, and manpower specialist), and the
project architect/construction engineer, working under direction of the
Project Coordinator, would provide leadership and advice to the



- 20 -
beneficiary states on project implementation and would represent the CDB in
project supervision. The project architect/construction engineer would
review and approve construction plane and be responsible for supervision
(from an overall project viewpoint) of all project civil works.
Individual country consultants would provide on-mite supervision of project
construction as a normal part of their architectural contract. The project
procurement advisor with assistance from project managers in the respective
countries, would be reoponmible for assisting the countries in preparing
procurement lists and opocifications of all furniture and equipment for
institutional expansion and improvement and for handling subsequent
procurement of all subproject goods and PIT services. The Project
Coordinator would coordinate activities of all the consultants and review
for approval project-related procurement actions by the project's
procurement advisor. The interaction of tlie technical assistance
consultants and IDA staff with the variouw CDB staff; i.e., architects,
procurement staff, disbursement staff, project supervision staff, etc. is
designed to enhance CDB'o institutional capability for project lending and
supervision. Though CDB would have overall supervision responsibility, IDA
and CDB would collaborate closely in this aspect of project implementation.
After a joint IDA/CDB initial start-up mission, joint supervision missions
would be conducted annually, normally led by CDB project supervision staff
with support from IDA staff. Interim supervision visits would be made by
CDB staff as appropriate and necessary.
48.      Each project beneficiary state hao appointed a local Project
Marnager (with qualifications acceptable to CDB and IDA) who would be
responsible for project implementation in the respective country concerned,
with direct line authority from the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Education. Subsequent appointments of individuals to the position of
Project Manager would be subject to the sAme conditions as the initial
appointment; i.e., qualifications acceptable to CDB and IDA. This
requirement would appear in the agreements between CDB and each project
country. The Project Managers would be responsible for: (a) ensuring that
necessary annual budgetary appropriations are requested for the project
component In the country concerned; (b) liaising with the CDB Project
Coordinator; (c) overseeing development of architectural designs, (d)
approving equipment proposals made by the PIT for equipment, furniture, and
consultant services; (e) assisting, as necessary, the procurement
specialist on matters of procurement and installation of relevant equipment
and furniture; (f) maintaining local financial records and preparing
withdrawal applications for the CDR to request disbursements from the IDA
credit proceeds; (g) timely recruitment of local staff; and (h) nomination
of fellowship candidates.
49.      The project preparation work in all five project beneficiary
states is well advanced. Preliminary architectural drawings for new
construction and extension works have been completed and are satisfactory
to IDA.   All new construction would be located close to existing buildings
and acquisition of new sites will not be required. Preliminary furniture
and equipment lists and the outline specifications have been prepared.
Detailed final lists, specifications, and bidding documents would be
completed after the vocational technical education advisor and the
procurement specialist begin employment. These implementation activities
are expected to be carried out in accordance with an Action Plan for



- 21 -
Project Implementation and an Implementation Schedule, both of which have
been agreed by IDA. The specific country subprojects are essentially self-
contained and, while it is desirable to maintain the project components
intact in all five project beneficiary states, the deletion of one or two
country subprojects would not seriously harm the overall project. However,
a condition for offectivenons of the IDA credit would be evidence of
Government authorization for subproject execution, effectiveness of at
leart three of the CDB subloan agrsoments with the project beneficiary
states in order to ensure achievement of regional project objectives, and
rnsignment of CDB'o rights under such loan agreements to IDA.
50.      The proposed project would have an implenmtation period of six
years. The project would have no large-scale construction items (mostly
renovationlextension), though it would Involve several parties and levels
of action and the beneficiary states have had limited experience with IDA
project requirements. On the other hand, all proposed project items are to
an advanced stage of properation, the CDB Project Coordinator and the
architect are experienced in project work, and experienced consultants will
be employed under the project to assist the countries with major
implementation tasks. Furthermore, the beneficiary country Governments
have expressed a strong desire to implement the project quickly.
Considering these factors, the proposed six-year implementation period,
though less than the Region profile of eight years, is considered
reasonable. On that basis, project completion would be June 30, 1993 and
the closing date would be set at December 31, 1993.
Procurement
51.      Contracts for civil works (the largest expected to be in the order
of US$800,000) would be awarded by individual countries under local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA which would allow
foreign contractors to compete. Civil works contracts in excess of
US$500,000 would require prior review and approval by IDA. Equipment,
furniture and other materials to be procured would be grouped, to the
extent possible, to form attractive bid packages and would be procured in
accordance with CDB procurement guidelines. Bid evaluation would be
accomplished by the PIT/CDB procurement specialist(s) after which the
procurement recommendations would be submitted to the five local project
managers who would be given 2 weeks to express objections, if any.
Contracts for technical assistance would be awarded in conformity with IDA
Guidelines for the hiring of consultants with each country having a
reasonable time period to object to proposed technical assistance firms.
Disbursements
52.      The OPEC Fund financing of project civil works will cover
US$500,000 equivalent in construction costs for each of the 5 participating
countries. The proposed IDA credit disbursement for civil works would be
made on the basis of 100% for all construction costs beyond the OPEC Fund
allocation up to the limit of total project funds allocated for civil works
of each project component in each respective country. The remainder of the
proposed IDA credit would be disbursed on the basis of 100 percent for
fellowships, the PIT, and consultants. CDB financing would cover 100% of
project goods. Disbursements against civil works and fellowship contracts



- 22 -
with a value up to US$20,000 would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Related documents would be retained by CDB and the
beneficiary states, am appropriate, for review by IDA staff during
supervision visits. Withdrawal requests for all other expenditures would
be fully documented. To facilitate timely withdrawal of the credit
proceeds, CDB would open, maintain, and operate a Special Account
(including six sub-accounts) with a bank acceptable to IDA and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. Based on the estimated diaburmement
schedule, the initial amount of deposit to the Special Account would be
US$600,000.
Accounting. Auditing and Evaluation
53.      Fach project beneficiary state would maintain a separate budget
account ^or Its subproject's civil works component. Procurement of
equipment, furniture, other materials and technical assistance would be
processed centrally by the procurement advisor in the PITICDB. Project
accounts in CDB and In each country would be audited by Independent
suditors, accoptable to CDB and IDA, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistent with the Bank/IDA March 1982 Guidelines.
CDB would provide to IDA, within six monthe after the end of each fiscal
year, an audit report covering each country's project account(s) and the
Project Special Account, including a separate opinion by the auditor on
disbursement. against statemnts of expenditure.
54.      To assist in determining the effectiveness of project
implementation procedures and the success of project training programs, the
CDB and IDA would make an interim assessment of project implementation
performance on or about September 30, 1990 an part of a joint mid-term
review mission. The CDB Project Coordinator would draw upon project
consultants and the proposed Regional Training Board to assist in designing
and implementing a project monitoring and evaluation program for the
project beneficiary states.
Project Benefits and Risks
55.      The proposed project is expected to make significant contributions
to institutional development in the respective project beneficiary
countries and, perhaps of equal importance, to loint planning of regional
trgini    ctivitiLes in the OECS area. National planning would be
strengthened and regional planning would be initiated to provide a
mechanism for offering selected regional training activities which might be
uneconomical for individual countries to undertake on their own. This
would be accomplished through the provision of a vocational-technical
training advisor and short-term consultants under the project to work with
the participating c untrieo individually and collectivoly. The regional
design of the project would enable the project beneficiary states to
procure equint and sexvices cheaper through quantity buying, to share
common services nd to pool technical expertise for mutual benefit.
Through sach a regional approach, the countries concerned would also
maintain and further develop the cosmatibility of their institutions and
policies in the vocational and technical education field, with potential
benefits in terso of labor mobility and cost effectiveness. Quality of
instructlon in each country would be improved through upgraded facilities,



- 23 -
suitable equipment and training materials, improved course content, and
upgraded instructors and administrators. Relevancy of instruction would be
improved through the creation and/or strengthening of National Training
Boards, improving formal institutional contacts with industry, expanding
job-analysis studies and obtaining feedback of on-the-job performance of
graduates.   Development of a labor market information system in each
country would improve efforts for planning human resources development
activities. The major quantifiable benefits of the project, from a
regional viewpoint, would be an additional annual output of about 65
technicians, 425 semi-skilled workers from secondary schools and 570
upgraded adult workers which would help to meet the requirements of the
labor market. It is estimated that approximately 10 percent of the
training to be provided under the project would be directed toward
developing job skills of the unemployed thus serving the relatively poorer
segments of society within each country. Particularly, the project would
include training components which would enhance women's employment in
garment-making, commercial cookery, and the tourism-related trades.
56.      Through its close collaboratlon with the CDB in financing and
supervision of the proposed project, IDA would extend its institution-
building effort related to CDB through a new sector (vocational/technical
education and training). By working together with IDA staff, the CDB staff
would gain experience in dealing with a relatively comprehensive
vocational-technical education project--an experience which could be of
value should CDB decide to pursue lending in the oducatior. sector in the
future.
57.      The risks associated with the execution of the proposed project
are based on the fact that successful implementation of the project would
require coordinated efforts within the five project beneficiary states and
by CDB. While project components in each country would be essentially
self-contained, all beneficiary states would share common procurement and
technical assistance under the project. The risks are: (a) there is a
possibility that only 3 or 4 of the 5 countries may ultimately participate
in the project, in which case, the full benefits anticipated would not be
realized and (b) there may be considerable variability In implementation
rates among the countries, thereby causing delays in implementation of
project activities common to all of the beneficiary states, particularly,
technical assistance and procurement of goods. While delays due to project
implementation complexities cannot be ruled out, the probability of less
than 5 countries participating is low due to the strong coamitment
expressed by all countries to it. Also, the expected strong leadership
from the Project Team in the CDB would help to minimize any
implementation/management problems.



- 24 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
58.      I recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
April 9, 1987
Washington, D.C.



- 25- 
Pupulatin (10001 95 1191$)                                                                                       ANN2E  I
llP psr capita:  5s1160 (19851                                                                            page  I of  1O
_IINICA - ECOMINiC  ArA
bwnt
lulS SIR. at                     Irneth Rate (ii
current prices)                        -...
INBS              193I     1q92      19N      1964     1995
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
___ __..._____
Crss  omutic Product            95.3              10.0       4.1      3.0      t.7      2.0
Agriculture                   23.2              21.9       2.4      1.0      5.7     -1.3
Industry                      6.3               15.9      17.5      1.1      2.1      8.2
Services                      49.7              -0.6       0.S      2.8      7.0       1.3
Consuqtion                      92.0               5.4      -4.2     -0.8      3.3      10.1
Gross Inveitmnt                 27.1             -30.2      -7.9      9.1     30.3    -10.5
Exports of GNFS                 37.5              51.3      2b.3      3.9     10.7    -3.7
leports of 6IfS                61.4               -5.9     -2.0       0.4     14.2      2.7
Cross heustic Savings            3.3
PRICES
GW  at n.p. dfliter (1977 : 100)               160.1    167.8    179.1    196.3    197.7
Exchange rate (ECSJUSSI                           2.7       2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7
Share of GDP it abrket Prices (11              Avrqa  knnual Increase IZ)
(at current prices) a/                       [at cmstant price)
1981     1982     1933     1984      1985            1911-93  1983-85  1981-95
Gross Domestic Product                           100.0    100.0    100.D    100.0    100.0                 5.7      3.9       5.2
Agriculture                                     27.1     25.6      24.6     23.9     24.3                8.1      1.8       5.7
Industry                                         6.4      7.6       7.2      b.4      6.4               11.2      3.9      9.8
Services                                        52.1     50.9      51.7     52.9     52.2                0.9      3.7       2.1
Coasptie.                                        110.0      97.3    90.0      91.1     96.6               -2.6      6.6       1.9
Gross Investment                                  33.4      21.2     28.2    33.9      29.5                0.0      9.0       3.9
Exports of flfS                                   35.2      43.9    45.1    41.9       39.4               14.5      3.2       9.7
Imports of 611S                                   78.7      69.5     63.3     41.9     64.5               -0.9      8.3       3.7
Cross Doeestic Savings                              .        2.7     10.0      8.9       3.4
As 2 of S6P
1991     1993      M9S
PUILIC FINANCE
Current Revenu                                  50.4      51.8     54.4
Current Expenditure                             59.7      51.9     50.9
Surplus  t1l or deficit (-I                     -9.3      -0.1      3.5
Capital Expenditure                             18.5      17.5     19.1
Foreign Finamcing (net)                         23.0      19.4     17.3
a/ Cuonents are expreuu   at factor cost and mill not add to GOP at earket price  due to exclusion
of net indirect taes and subsidies.



- 26 -
SKI
Popalatiim reElOs U (IMU
W  per caitAi UNItS (1MU                                                                               Pagm  2 of 10
ifiB    - ECI IIC ETA
burt            Caautl, f 4orAgw   basl laruae II
Itg ala. at    tlrchudi. trio  (1)            (at cnutaat  pricul
corrat prical    lat cwist pricial 
ms ~         n        tin            zuzt-n  is-u twi-n
ERTEEIIINN Tl
HrcbaUndia Ieuti Euwur                24.2             INO.6    66.0              10.5      6.3      5 2
as                                   13.3             *.7    I0.l                4.1      7.2      5.7
lthlr                                12.9             51.3    49.2              14.4    -1.3      510
Parchouim   apwitm                     17.2            260.0   106.0              -1.5      7.7      3.6
Fad                                  12.1             21.2    22.                ...       ...
Chclcals                              1.3             11.5    11.4               ...      ...
Iadaactwd heS                        11.0             29.4    27.2               ...      ...
Capital WWI                          12.4             I7.      22.5              ...
rIlty                                11.6             14.4    11.3               ...
Jul     29"2    I23       mei   2I5
Pricn e1m1 * 1001
Eapart Price 1..                                     117.1    131.2   173.2   154.1   117.1
Imat Price 15n                                        644.4   161.4   161.6   141.7    16.2
Twa of Irade 15n .9.9    9.    107.4                                             3.6    A.
Jul     1932    196       193      291
ULE   (F PAIITS                                       fin aillim  of U 1S     e at cwruut pricU)
Eperbt  MIC                                             2LS      31.7      5.7    31.9    37.5
ofl suci Nrchmii                                       19.1    24.5    27.5    25.1    2l.4
lmwrts. S                                               12.0    SD. 1    50.1     3.9    61.4
of diicha trcludia                                     49.71    U.       47.1    55.1    57.2
Hut Factor SEuices                                      4.4      -0.1    -1.3    -2.7    -S.0
Irmsfsrm  a)                                             Le       4.1      5.0     1.3      6.5
Carrt kcout hkl e                                      -23.3   -14.6   -10.9   -13.4   -20.4
Nract IRveatat                                           0.0      0.2      6.2     2.3      1.7
Public Capital (lat)                                    12.3    14.0       9.0    17.1    17.1
but.                                                   9.4      LU1      4.6     1.      14.4
Lt    Disbursement                                     3.4      Lw       5.7    L5        5.3
bArtizatim                                             0.7      0.7      1.1      2.4     2.3
Coaacial  tks Inuth                                      0.7    -1.1    -2.4       3.0    -0
itt. Capital                                            11.3      1.E      4.5    -4.1      2.1
Cnam   in *Eurv    - * inure)                           -2.6      6.2    -0.4      0.2    -0.2
EITEt WUlTfL E mT
tra   lisharat                                          13.0    14.7    10.1    19.9    29.9
official  raht l(pulic capitl)                         9.6      5.1      4.4    14.1    14.4
Lns                                                    3.4      L.       5.7     5.3      5.3
Fsttrfal ht hutstaio I DsIbwwd bI                       11.9    24.1    3.9    32.7   35.4
Mt Service
Tal SErvica Paatc                                      1.1      1.4      2.1     4.4      4.3
Payts at     2 of (aprtII,   S                         4.9      4.1      7.1    12.0    11.5
Arawg  latarnt late Itl                                  2.7      3.2      4.4     5.1      4.7
a/ Privato trausfars aly.
hi Ecuws. dekit to the 1IF   d ECCA hat imclua publicly guarataa  dot.



- 27 -
Popuiatiaf  ('N:1 10I   1195)
W   per caitau   U976 11(195)                                                                                Paqe 3 of  10
U11S - EfIIC IOTA
meet
IUSt ek. at                      Setb  abt  IlI
currnt pricnl
1965              1931     1967       133         19     35 m
Gross Damstic Pruduct          96.6                3.0      0.4     -2.9       2.0      3.7
Agriculture                  15.7               15.3   -13.7       2.2       0.2    -10.2
Industry                      5.7               33.3    IZ.5   -11.3    -11.,        17.6
Service                      75.0                3.1      6.7     -3.5       4.1      '.1
Cmsmwtmi                       3.0                 ...      ...       ...      ...      ...
Gross la Htmt                  33.6                ...      ...       ...      ...      ...
Exports of W1f6                51..                                   ...      ...      ...
leorts of 6lFS                 77.7                ...      ....                        ...
Gross Dbntic Saings             7.5                                   ...      ...      ...
PRICES
GO  at np.. deflator 11990 * 101                309.5    117.3   124.2    132.7    137.6
Exchange rate (ECIIJI                             2.7      2.7      2.7       2.7      W
Sh_e of W   at   r    irW cus !U              IvorawhAn h       lncrare (1)
Eat curret price) a/                         (at cntat pricel
1931     1932     1113    19"        195             Im-3   193          191-5
Gross heestic Priuct                             160.0    100.1    10.0   166.0    1A.0                    1.3      0.9      2.7
Agriculture                                     21.9     13.      11.7      16.1     16.3               0.       -2.7     -1.7
Industry                                         7.5      3.3      6.4      5.6       5.9                .1      -2.9      1.5
Services                                        7LA      73.1     74.3      76.3     77.1                1.4      2.4      t.O
Conswm tion                                       93.3     91.3    101.4    101.0      92.2
Gross Invstmt                                     67.9    50.9      41.6      32.9     34.3                         ...      ...
Exports of UlFS                                   53.3     47.7      47.2     44.9     5.5
laprts o4  RS                                     94.5     96.9     93.1      78.8     U.6                 ...      ...      ...
gross Destic Saving                                6.7       1.7    -1.4      -1.0      7.3                ...                ...
As e of W
1911     193      193
PIIILIC F INMICE
Current Rern                                    31.1     41.3      49.3
Current Expeniture                              32.1     33.       30.2
Surplus 141 or deficit I-l-0.2                            7.7      11.2
Capitel Expenditure                             37.1     42.6     33.9
Foreign Finaning (nt)                           36.4     32.1      23.7



- 28 -
Populatin  VMN), 100 (1915)
P Pr citat.l 1s21  (nn93)                                                                                Page 4 of 10
1M"  - ECEIC DATA
Anut            Cpel tam of              Avaerap. haul 1creU  IUI
(UN  ell. at   lHrchudis  trade i7             lat CitHt pricel
currnt rices)       t curreat pricESl        -
295              131      2935                 193 1 2933-35  232-6
EITEIL  TIIE
lHrchadilu  Dooeatic Exports           22.D             20O.0   200.0               14.1     7.1      0.4
Isnaaa                                3.1              19.3    11.1              -5.3    -7.5    -3.7
atlmr                                 I.v             m*0.1    n5.a               20.4   12.1       14.4
herbmldie Ipwts                        69.1             100.0    1o0.0              71.3      3.6     t2
Food                                 17.1              24.5    24.5                ...     ...      ...
Ohicals                              LI                9.0      3.                ...     ...      ...
hrlactwed Coos                       10.3              133      14.1               ...
Catal Goods                          23.3              14.7    19.1                ...      ...
eter                                 22.9              39.4    32.9                ...     ...      ...
tnt11    was    19u       aim.    t
Priem IIYOO * 1001
Export Price Iain                                      *iJ       0.5    71.5    79.0    79.6
Ierit Pfics lIidn                                    20.5   "9.         9.5    94.1    95.5
Trn      rmle lde                                        .      31.2    76.1    63.3    63.1
1331    132      2333     114      2935
ISAIE   OF PAVNENTS                                    lIn SIlIls of l6 dtll rs at curret pricn)
Exports, MS                                              39.6    31.2    N.E    41.3    51.6
f tAcict Ulrchadia                                      19.4    13.5    11.1    IL7        Z2.5
lmpwrts,  FS                                            70.2    77.6    71.2    70.7    11.6
oS mili llsrchadiu                                      12.4    65.1    64.6    57.1    69.7
Ut Factor Services                                       -5.0    -5.4    -4.8    -1.6    -2.3
Trafes a1                                                10.4    11.0      16..    11.7      3.4
Currest kcomnt hulce                                    -25.2   -33.3   -29.4   -20.3   -2D.4
Direct 1.vntmt                                            0.0      2.9      2.5      2.3      2.5
Public Capital (t)U                                      19.1    25.4    24.2    2L4        29.4
Grats                                                  12.5    15.9    16.1    24.6    28.9
LoAn   ioburseent                                       U.      10.1    15.2       6.3      4.6
Imutizatim                                              0.7      D.       1.1      3.0      4.1
Other Capital                                             4.4      6.7      2.3   -11.3    -2.3
Chap in    rve (-   incresul                              1.0    -0.2    -0.1        0.4    -0.2
EZTEIRI CE?IIL     D Bt
6r.s Dslwnrunt                                           23.6    26.0    25.3       31.9    33.6
Official Grats (plhic capital)                        12.5    135.9    10.1    24.6      3.9
LoDs                                                    3.2    10.1    15.2        7.3      4.7
Exters  kbt Ihatstalinq & Dishrsd h/                     13.0    26.6    40.7    42.1    45.2
lt Service
Total Service Payuts                                    1.5      2.4      2.6      1.2    10.5
Payets as Z Sf Exports, EM                              3.1      6.3      6.3    17.9    20.3
Avrwae Interest Pate 11                                   4.4      3.4      3.6      4.6      2.2
a/ Private transfrs ely.
b/ Excludn debt to the IIF ad ECU but iscluds publicly guarantend dit.



- 29 -
Population (1'0001: 42 (1IM51
OW per capita: USS11I60 095)                                                                                Page 5 of IU
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS - ECONOMIC DATA
l1u0 elm. at                     Iromth Rte (12)
currnot price)      -------
195               1911     1m       3913     1994    I5
*AriMn  accuIurs
Gross bomstic Product          69.7                4.0    -1.0      -0.3      3.9      2.1
Agricuiture                   b.9               5.2       0.0    -11.4      4.3    -2.5
Industry                      9.3             -10.1      9.9   -11.1       11.7    -9.0
Services                     42.5                9.9      7.3      4.0      1.6      3.7
Consumption                    91.1              25.1       5.9     10.9    -2.3      -3.7
tross Investmnt                 8.5             41.1        1.9   -13.2      -.1      71.4
Exports of GWS                 42.1               19.6   -13.6      -1.     23.7      7.9
Imports of GINS                63.0               17.6    -1.6      11.5      5.5      4.4
Grms Dmstic Savino'           -12.4                 .      42.7     52.6   -IL9    -21.9
PRICES
GOP at m.p. deflator 11977  4101                146.6   156.2    153.0    16.3    172.0
Enchange rate CECt/IISSI                          2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7
Shae of IIP at larket Prien  1I)              Averwa  Anul Increau II
fat current pricn) a)                       Eat constant prices)
1901     1992     1993     1984     1s15                 19113-33  2934   19,1-3
Gross Domestic Froduct                           100.0    100.0    100.0   190.0    100.0                0.9       1.9      1.7
Agriculture                                     9.1      12.7     10.1     11.2     10.0              -5.0    -6.0       -2.7
Industry                                       12.1     12.0      12.2    13.1      12.1              -0.6    -3.3      -2.4
Services                                       50.6      61.9     63.5    60.5      61.9               1.7       3.2      5.1
Consumption                                      117.4   123.2    134.5    124.9   118.1                 23.9      1.2      6.7
gross Investmnt                                  10.9      10.5      9.0      7.5     12.4             -29.9      11.0   -11.5
Exports of GI1S                                  69.4      56.1     53.3     59.2     61.3                0.6      9.5      6.3
Imports of 61Ff                                  97.6     09.9      96.9     91.1     91.7               89.      7.1       7.3
6ross Dowstic Savinps                           -17.4   -23.2   -34.5   -24.9   -19.1
As Z of MP
1991    1983      1915
PU0LIC FINACE
Current Revnue                                 39.2      33.5     32.0
Currmnt Exapeditue                             43.2      31.1     35.0
Surplus (4) or deficit f-I                     -5.0    -4.5    -3.3
Capital Expnditure                              9.4       8.4     15.3
Foreign Finncing (net)                          3.0       3.7      4.2
a/ Componots are eKprness  at factor cost ad will noi add to GDP at urket price due to exclnsimi
of net indirect taxes and subsidies.



- 30 -
Pplatim     ' l um    a-
N   e  apial mites 11l1l                                                                              Pp *       of o U
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS - UCOOKC EATA
Alat            Cupultim  of            Avag basl l1m    ElI
(I1S SIa. at    WlrIUSU trail I               fat casat pim)s
iwtrt pricel    Eat tenet pricl
29               22        9 11110m1N-S3I 2103IS 1102
,,,,,,...__.
Hhrcheuilu Iatic Epets                17.2             16.0    16.6              -7.2    4.1       -4.2
h,ar                                 I.E              LI       12.2             -7.1    4.7    -4.7
thr                                  L1               37.2    6.1              -7.5     IlI    -I.4
hrchauiiu  igeWte                     53.6            1NO.0    26.0               5.9      7.9      5.6
Fad                                 1.6               19.5    22.6               ...       ...    ...
Ealcals                              4.1              LI       1.6              ...      ...      ...
aafaturui hi                         9.2              34.1    15.3               ...     ...      ...
Caital hIns                          9.6              26      11.9               ...       ...    ...
ethr                                10.1              16.4    16.6               ...       ...    ...
101     L"2       M       i   lWl I"
rien ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ a    itS7 *t   a    a
Epert Price I.i.                                     Ut? Ur           23.0    131.7     2 134.4
lpel Prime lSa                                       26.5  123.7   13.L    132.5  123.3
Term o  Trmim  aim                                   2#3.1    12.1    "9.    10.1   260.1
lLAC  N lIMITS iEl Slime e                                              " iSets at cwrSt pricne
Earts, 110                                              UL      34.2    31.7    u.s       aI
of Sucl       ihadiso                                  2L3    21.0    IL.7    20.5    IL7
laoWt, IFC                                             54.6    53.0      t.6     5.6       3.0
ef Sichi mchmdIm                                      47.6    44.3    51.4    51.9    5L
ht F ettr Irvlce                                        0.9      0.1      1.0      .I    -1.4
Trades aJ                                               6.7      Li       7.6     9.!    10.6
Carrat kcmt hlss                                       -6.2      9.3   -17.3   -11.1   -11.7
Slic Capital Intl                                        1.1     2.1      2.7     1.5      3.6
Grats                                                  1.6     2.3      LI       1.E     3.2
[so kflrit                                             0.4     0.4      6.2      4.0     0.1
bartizatim                                             0.2      .2      0.2      0.3     0.2
Caineial lt    utl                                      3.5    -1.2       1.2    -4       4.2
ither Capital                                            1.1     7.3    ILS       I0.3     0.3
thag  ia buem  I- a iecrusel                            4.1      0.7    4.1    -3.3        0.6
simlM rwITL a er
fram  iehuast                                           2.0      32       Lo       7.9     6.1
Official rats Iplic cpItl)                            1.6     2.3      2.7      1.E     Li
Isam                                                   1.2     0.9      1.1      L.i     3.0
Eblweal lSt htstaaii   I lIers  ti                     11.4    11.4    12.6    17.1    29.1
hit ervice
Ital  ervice Payr ets                                0.6      0.7      0.7      1.2     1.5
Payats t    Il  f EaWte, WI                            1.3     1.4      1.7      2.3     2.9
ArW   Eterst late 121                                   3.3      3.!      3.!      LI      5.6
a/ Privab traifws nly.
bhitcls  itt tl tls IN    i a CM ht ialui pubicly gwatha iset.



- 31 -
ibJEI I
tplatime ('0001: 137  195I                                                                                                 _
W   pwr capita: U111210 11M51                                                                                  Page  7 of 10
ST. LUIA - ECIIIUIC DATA
Amnt
IV"  .1n. at                       tllh Rate IlI
current prices)
1M 5              1111      1912     VuS       1914    I5
............ ..................... .u_.. ............ .. ..... _. .    .w ._ _._....... . .. _.__.. _.. __.__.... . ...........  _ _. -------- -. -... __ -- - --------
NATIlONL ACCENTS
Eros hnetic Product            170.3                1.2       2.1      4.0      4.4       7.2
Agriculture                   21.4              -14.9      33.0     14.1      U.0      12.3
Industry                      13.1               -1.I       I.1      4.5      0.0       2.5
Service                      109.3                4.0      -0.5      2.9       .I       6.9
Cmmptios                       155.0                ...        ..      ...       ...
Urons lnvestmt                  57.0                ...       ..       ...       ...      ...
Exports of CIFS                  .3                 ...                ...       ...
Imports of GNF1                135.1                ...       ..       ...       ...      ...
tross  uestic Savings           15.2                ...
PRICES
SW  at o.p. deflator 11977   101                 123.0    145.1    117.4    171.6    177.3
Euchange rate IECSJUII                             2.7       2.7      2.7      2.7       2.7
Uwe of WP at arhkt Pricm  (2)                   Averae Annual Incrreas  (2)
(at current price) a/                         (at castat pricesi
1911     1922     1133    1936       IM15             1911-33  191-IS  1911-15
Gross hcntic Prodct                               100.0    100.0    10.0    100.0    110.0                  L2.       5.9       6.2
Aqricultwrc                                       8.3      10.0     12.4      11.2     12.7               15.1     11.7       9.5
Industry                                          1.5      3.3       3.5      8.1       7.7                2.1      3.0       1.0
Services                                         19.4     68.2      45.4     66.2       4.2                1.8      4.0       3.1
sptios                                             90.4     91.1      90.9      0.1      91.1 
krss Inestmt                                       57.4      43.0     33.5     34.5      33.5
iports of 1FS                                      53.0      54.9     53.2     5.        54.3                          ...      ...
Ieorts of ClfS                                    101.0     39.1      77.5     01.1      79.4                ...
gross  omtic Savigs                                 9.4       3.3      9.1      9.9       1.9                          ...      ...
AsmI of I
1911     nsi      ams
PUILIC FIICE
Currnt Rnue                                      49.0     57.4      57.6
Current Expediture                               47.3     S5.2      53.4
Surplus (  or dficit (-1                          1.7       2.2      4.3
Capital Expnditre                                12.5       9.4      LI
Foreip Fiameig (Int)                              3.7       4.9      0.4
a/ Coapiuts ae eprnsd at factor cat ad will not ad  to  IP at mrket prirn de to enclusion
of net indiret taxes   sd usidies.



- 32 -
Pe                                                                                                       Nj<|.|llzn}r.  8 of  l0
IT. 11CIA - EC1IIC IATI
_lmmuat....      Ceeplog tim of          Avwale bus  Inerease uit
4III We. at      ierhmdle, trade (1?           lat mutmtut pricnl
cwru,1 pricer      lat curust priceul
nm                ii lm                   M-1 1        -]    u  w
krcMiue lestic Experts                 47.5             I.0    100.0                -1.      3.4      4.5
kman                                 30.2              40.3    61.6               12.6    20.1      17.1
Dtbr                                 17.3               9.7      6.4              -9.      -2.1    -4.5
bercauewImpte                         125.4             110.4    IW0.               -3.7      Li        .1i
Feu                                  21.2              20.4     z1.1               ...
CImecals                             14.6               9.6     I.7                ...      ...      ...
hmlactered led                       39.7              34.2    33.                 ...      ...      .
Capital Seso                         32.4              1I.9     1.41               ...      ...
thur                                  1.3              135.7    i.4                ...      ...
1111     LM|     IM)      1N4      IM|
ice. illSl * 251
EsWpt Price lad                                       135.6    114.2   121.6   1iS.7   ii1.0
'pet Pce ldO                                          300.5     ".3       .5      ".3    95.5
1em  of Trade 1i                                      35.l    335.3   126.2   122.1   3ILS
1291    3932      95       Me    1915
'ALM1   IF RIIENS                                      Ih milims u  UI dollars at crael prienl
spertm, MIB                                              15.5    13.0       .A    95.5    97.6
of Sict a HIrchdiw                                      41.2    41.6    47.5       47.1    52.0
lmpwtse  ClFB                                           137.0   127.5  137.2   133.1   139.4
o  elicit HuchJwi.                                     129.2   313.3    1N3    £11.    125.0
.t htetr lerien                                          -2.1    -3.4       0.5     4.3    -0.3
Tralerg a                                                13.6     13.5     17       14.1    21.5
Curert kct halmce                                       -50.0   -36.4   -20.1   -23.1   -20.6
Direct leamtt                                            3.2   72.5    12.0         12.0    II.7
Public Capital  I)                                      10.1    11.4    10.0        9.5    30.7
ltrt.                                                   7.3      5.6      7.3      3.4      L4
Lom  IA    eut                                          3.4      6.9      3.4      2.2      3.2
ieutizatiu                                              0.6      1.3      0.7      1.1      e.1
Cmm_rial Dit. (iotl                                      -2.9     4.7      -.5       2.7    -6.I
Other Capital                                             4.2   -4.7        3.7      0.6    -2.3
ChMe 3m eee   -s erael                       *.4                  4.1      4.1      -0.3 -    0. I 1
EnTW  CAIr^L M N
ame Oiu-brt                                              10.7    12I    10.7    30.6    11.6
Officil Irate (pulic c'pitdl                            1.3      5.L      7.3      6.4      6.4
Le                                                      3.4      69       3.       2.2     L2
External kht Ohteteiau   I bisned hI                     24.4    25.5    27.4    26.2         J.7
Debt Service
Total Service Paymes                                    1.3      2.0      1.3      2.0      2.5
Peyet  n I ef Experts.  1i                              3.7      2.5      2.2      Li       2.
berq   lSweeat  bte (11                                   Ll       3.5      4.4      3.3      1.2
.f Private trameere only.
hf Ecludn ddt to tie N  ad J    iC  but iKcia publicly quarutmd debt.



- 33 -
AMNEX I
Population 1 00Cs: 110       0).....
SW  por capitat U2S1140 11995!                                                                                     PoRe  9  of  10
ST. VINCENT & THE GRENADINES - ECONOMIC DATA
Amunt
IUSJ mIn. at                       Grosth late 171
current pricesi      ------------------------------------------
2995               1911      1912      1913     1984      1915
._._......_....._..._..........__. __... _._.___.. ____ ._.._ ....._._.. _.__........ ....... ...........................
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
............ ...............
Gross Domestic Product          101.6                 6.3      9.0       1.1       4.9       0.9
Agriculture                    16.3                41.1      5.b       4. E       .6       0.6
Industry                        7.5                 I.9      6.0       2.4       0.B     -0.9
Services                       60.7                 2.4      5.9       5.5       2.7       2.3
Conswption                       86.9                -2.1      13.7      6.2      -4.6      -4.0
GrDss Investment                 30.8                -0.9       6.1     15.4      -9.0      24.1
Exports of 6NFS                  19 0                 5.9       7.0     15.?      26.0      12.1
Imports of GIFS                   5. 1               -4.9     12.1      16.8       6.3      11.4
Gross Domestic Savings           14.17
PRICES
SW  at a*p. deflator 11977 a 1001                 106.5    103.2    104.3    114.0    116.9
Eclhanqe rite IECI/USSI                              2.7      2.7       2.7       2.7       2.7
Share of SIP at Narket Pricesm  11               Average Annual Increase 111
lat current pricesl a/                         fat constant pricesl
1991     1982      1983      1984      ISB5             1991-93  1913-85  19BI-95
Gross Domstic Product                               100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                   6.0       3.9       5.2
Aqricultlre                                       14.3      14.2      14.4      14.7      16.1               16.2       6.7      12.7
Industry                                           9.9       9.5       9.9       9.5      7.4                 3.4       0.9   .2.0
Services                                          61.3      60.0      59.6    S.2       59.3                 4.6       3.5       3.;
Consumption                                          93.9     96.9      94.1      8718      95.6                5.B      -0.9       l.a
Gross Investmnt                                      33.2     30.4      31.9      27.0      30.3                1.6       6.6       4.9
Exports of 6NFS                                      62.3     57.5      61.3      70.0      77.8                9.4    12.0        13.2
Imports of SNIFS                                    99.5      94.7      97.3      94.8     93.7                 7.6      11.4       9.1
Gross Domestic Savings                                6.1       SI 5.9            12.2      14.4
As I of GDP
1981     1993      1905
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current Revenue                                   33.4      30.5      36.7
Current Expenditure                                32.3     30.       298.4
Surplus 141  or deficit 1-1                         1.1     -0.2       9.2
Capital Expenditure                                13.3     11.3      13.9
Foreign Financing Inet)                            9.9       ;.8      10.5
a/ Components are expressed at factor cost and mill nt add to GD' at market prices due to exclusin
of net indirect taxes and subsidies.



- 34 -
Ppulatim  I'011 120 (1115
IW  pr capitas HUJO  (IMP                                                                                PatiO lOsf  10
ST, VINCENT & THE CRENADINES - ECONOMIC DATA
A_At             Cempitlm of              Averwe   ONel IMAaMS (1
(HI sIR. at    Nerchadlue trade  I)              at cstant pric"l
curret. pricnl    lat current pricns)
291               INI      l       195211143  21113-03  291121-1
__..... _ ..........  .  __... __......                            .  ....  . _..__...............__..
ci ruou wu
hrchandllse amtic Experts               62.              100.0   200.0               12.0    19.5      15.5
huena                                 26.9              36.9    27.0               11.9     18.0    14.1
Oter                                  43.7              45.1     73.0              12.1     1.1      35.4
lNrcadise lqpwtm                          .              100.0    200.0               7.2    12.1       1.0
Feud                                  22.0              3.1    25.7                  ...     ...      ...
Chemicals                              9.2              11.9    10.1                ...
Muacturd bds                          27.1              21.5    32.3                 ..
Caital See               I6.7                           14.4     19.5               ...      ...      ...
other                                 30.0              13.2     11.7               ...
1911     2932    19        19"3     15
Price  13930 * 100
ExpWrt Price Inds                                      152.7   31.1   155.2    151.3   154.1
lsprt Price le.                                        163.5    363.2    157.    1355.7    13.9
ermse of Trok  mien                                     92.3      .2      9.4      97.5     97.0
2901     1m       na       IM       190
AIES IF PlYIEI1S
Exprits, iSM                                              44.5     47.9    510       69.0    79.0
of uihicha lerchanim                                     29.3     34.3     41.1    54.2    63.7
lepart, IWS                                               U.9      70.      79.7    .E4       1.2
ef hictha lerchndi.                                      5t.2     13.6    70.4    76.6       C.5
Net Faetr Servicn                                         -1.7     -3.7    -2.0    -2.2       -1.5
Tranfers at                                               13.1     11.4     17.0    22.4       9.2
turrat kAcot lalec.                                      -4.0   -20.0    -8.7    -4.4    -4.4
iraet lsamtt                                               0.5      0.       1.0      0.4      0.6
Publil Caital (metl                                        7.3      6.0      5.6      4.7     11.5
6rents                                                   3.4      3.6      3.0      2.5      4.3
tun 3Ishumweut                                           5.0      2.9      L3       2.9      3.4
Amertizatim                                              0.6      0.5      0.7    - 0.7      1.2
Ceercial lekh  (cii                                        0.7      0.9      1.1      1.0      0.6
Other Capital                                             -1.0      2.4      0.7    -1.1    -4.0
Chese in  euvesn 1- a increame)                            0.0      0.1      0.3      0.1    -0.3
EITEAL CAPITAL   IDNU
troes ffhdr_mt                                             1.6      6.4      6.3      5.4     12.7
Official braits (public capitall                         3.4       .b      3.0      2.5      4.3
Lomrs                                                    5.0      2.9      3.3      2.9      3.4
Extenal Mt Ohtsteidq I liebarsd h/                        17.6    11.9      20.5    22.7    29.1
DMt Service
rotal rrvice Payetm                                      1.5      1.5      1.7      L3       3.2
Paymts as I of Experts, E                                2.6      2.3      2.3      2e       3.6
vraw   lntmrnt Nete (U)                                    4.7      4.9      4.6      4.9      3.1
iJ Privnte tramsfs sly.
hi Exclud  deft te tth INF ad ECC   t inldi  publicIy  urteed debt.



_ 35'_
s                               ~~~~~~~~~~NNEX Ix
TAtP$ 0 BAWK GROU? OPERATIONS WITH THE
CARIBErAN DEVELOPMENT BAZN
A.  Statement of -3nk and Third Window Loons ond IDA Ctedeits o  of
Se1tembor 320  1986
US$ Milllon Auount
Loan or                                                      (Los  cancellations)
Credit     Fiscal
No.       Year       Borrovwer    Purpose          Bank   Tw      IDA  Undisburaed
2 loan, fully disbursed                              15.6   3.0
1775       1980          CDB        Relending        23.0                    3.5
960       1980          CDB        Relending                       7.0      0.8
1364       1983          CDB        Relending                      g7.9      7.7
Total                      38.6   3.0   14.9
of which has been repaid   5.8   0.5    0.0
Total now outstanding      32.8   2.5   L  4.9
Total Undisbursed                                   12.0
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of September 30 1986
None



- 36 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Kev Events
(a) Project Preparation: Project was prepared by the respective
beneficiary states with assistance from UNESCO, CDB and IDA.
(b) Appraisal Mission: January 1986.
(c) Completion of Negotiationss March 1987.
(d) Planned Date of Effectiveness: September 1987.
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Actions
Joint supervision with CDB's Project Implementation Team.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) CDB would open a Special Project Account in a bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 52).
(b)  CDB and IDA would make an interim assessment of project
Implementation performance on or about September 30, 1990 as part
of a joint mid-term review mission (pnra. 54).
(c) feasibility studies on cost-savings and cost-recovery
possibilities to be completed and provided to CDB and IDA for
their comments by December 31, 1988 (para. 38).
(d) Conditions for credit effectiveness would be:
(i) evidence of Government authorization for subproject
execution, effectiveness of at least three of the CDB sub-
loan agreements with the project beneficiary states in order
to ensure achievement of regional project objectives, and
assignment of CDB's rights under such sub-loan agreements to
IDA (para. 49).
(ii) CDB selection and country approval of the technical
assistance firm and confirmation of appointment of the CDB
architect/construction engineer (para. 39).
(iii) all conditions for effectiveness of the corresponding OPEC
Fund loan agreements, other than effectiveness of the
corresponding IDA credit agreement or of the CDB loan
agreements, have been met (para. 42).



-37 -
ANNEX IV
g    f 7
OECS REGIONAL VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Descriptions of Individual Country Subproiecto
1.       In the following paragraphs, various components of the propos-d
regional project (subprojects) havo been presented in their particular
project beneficiary country contexts. Limited information on the economic
and education sectors in each country has been included, as necessary, to
place each subproject within the overall sectoral context.
A. Dominica
2.       Dominica a moderately small island country of approxmsately 290
square miles, has a population of 76,500 with a labor force estimsted at
30,500. Active employment currently stand. at just under 25,000, leaving
about 18 percent outside the economically productive sector. Wage levels
remain relatively low compared with other Caribbean and most western
industrialized countries. Heavily dependent on agriculture, Dominica has
experienced severe economic difficulties in recent years. The devastation
by Hurricane David in August 1979, closely followed by Hurricane Frederick
and Hurricane Allen in August 1980, resulted In significant declines in
real GDP in 1979 and 1980. The country is still recovering from these
disasters. The basic development goal is to harness the economy's
productive potential, to stimulate increasing income end exports and to
create opportunities for employment. To helD achieve this long-term goal,
the Government is seeking to improve and reform the education and training
system to make its graduate. more suitable for employment.
3.       The Government of Dominica has set for future development of its
education sector clear objectives and guidelines, focusing on adapting the
system to meeting perceived emerging national needs and to improving those
key factors within the system which influence educational outcomes; i.e.,
curricula, teaching methodology, equipment, and facilities. The country
has 58 primary schools, 6 junior secondary schools, 2 senior secondary
schools,-* teachers college, a technical college, and a sixth form (general
college) program. Although the educational level of Dominicals population
is fairly high, the education system still falls short in meeting the
current training needs of the economy, which are mainly in the areas of
technical and commercial skills.  In the aftermath of a recently
implemented program to increase the literacy rate mong its population, the
Government, with assistance from the Caribbean Examination Council (CXC),
is now attempting to improve the quality of education and training through
reforms in teaching methodology, curricula, and facilities. Special
emphasis Is being placad upon developing ties with local enterprises and
upon diversification of the system to gonerate greater occupational
awareness among young people and to better equip youth and young adults for
successful participation in the labor force.



_ 38-
ANNE IV
Pagej2lof 7
4.       The proposed project would be consistent with the Government'e
foregoing objectives and program for improving quality in its
technical/vocational education and training system. It would provide for
limited renovation of the training facilities of Clifton Dupigney Technical
College, together with the vocational blocks of two senior secondary
schools (Goodwill and Portsmouth) and six junior secondary schools (Grand
Bay, Castle Bruce, Portsmouth, Harigot Weir, St. Joseph, and Goodwill).
Improved and updated equipment would be provided for all the schoola listed
above. Fellowship training would be provided in the Caribbean region
(Jamaica) for 10 vocational education Lnstructore (90 staff-months) and 8
vocational supervLsors (24 staff-months). Internships abroad would be
provided for 4 technical college instructors (12 staff-months).
5.       Much of the emphasis in the Dominica subprojoet would be on
improving the quality sand expanding the capaecity of prevocational education
programs at the junior secondary school level. It Is expected that those
who complete this level of education, rather than going directly to the
labor market, would go on for specialized training in the secondary
vocational education programs, or eventually, in the technical colleges.
It is recognized, however, that some students will leave the system prior
to completion snd enter the labor market as semi-skilled or even unskilled
workers, depending on their points of exit.
6.       At the secondary and post-secondary levels, the sain emphasis
would be on improving quality and output (rather than expanding physical
facilities). Output from both levels combined would be increased by about
70 graduates (30 percent) per year, due mainly to expected increases in
instructional efficiency. All schools listed in pars. 4 above would
provide evening courses for fnservice training for adults. The increased
number of adults to be served is estimated to be about 160 per year
(representing an increase of 80 percent).
7.       Implementation of the Dominica subproject would require no
increase in instructional staff of the Technical College. Vocational staff
of the senior secondary schools would have to be increased by 4 persons and
the junior secondary schools by 5 persons. Additional recurrent cost to be
incurred (EC$241,000) are estimated to be 1.6 percent of Dominica's annual
education budget and 0.3 percent of the Governmental budget. While the
amount involved is not insignificant, it can be met particularly if
appropriate cost-reduction/cost-recovery measures are implemented.
B. Grenada
8.       Grenada, has a land area of 116 square miles and an estimated
population of 92,000. Approximately 28,000 of its almost 34,000 labor
force is actively employed, leving an unmploynmnt rate of about 17
percent. The country'o *oil condition and abundant rainfall make the
island wll-suited for gzowing tropical crops. Thus, revitalization of
agriculture is a keystone of Government efforts to promoto economic growth.
Further development of tourim and manufacturing sectors is also a high
priority In the Government's economLc growth progra.  Exports of goods and
services are projected to rise by nearly 50 percent in real terms between



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 7
1984 and 1990 because of expected higher production of cocoa and bananas,
recovery of exports of manufacturers, and a sharp increase in tourist
arrivals expected to begin in 1987. Improved education and training is a
key element in the country's development plans.
9.       Grenada's education and training system, in some ways, is less
advanced than those in some other OECS countries though efforts are being
made toward improvement with some assistance from the Caribbean Examination
Council (CXC). In addition, special linkages are being established with
employers for increased relevance of instruction. The country has 64
primary schools, 4 junior secondary schools, 17 senior secondary schools
(which also include the lower secondary grades), a technical and vocational
institute, a teachers college, a domestic arts institute, and an institute
for further education (general college).
10.      A manpower survey conducted in 1984 by the Grenada Ministry of
Planning found that a number of occupational skills important to the
country and its development were in very short supply. Prime among these
were skilled worker and technician level skills In the areas of
electricity, electronics, plumbing, welding, and building construction.
The same survey revealed that the education system was not producing
graduates with these skills on the scale required for the country's mediua-
and long-term industrial development.
11.      The proposed project would help move the country's education
system toward a more work-oriented education and training program. The
Grenada subproject would include limited renovation for the Grenada
Technical and Vocational Institute (GTVI) and the Domestic Arts Institute
(DAI), both located at Tanteen, St. Georges, with new furniture and
equipment to complement those which already exist in the two institutes.
The subproject would also include constiuction, furniture, and equipment
for a Multipurpose Training Center (MITC) at La Fortune, in St. Patrick
parish. Fellowship training would be provided in the Caribbean region
(Jamaica) for 16 instructors (144 staff-months), to be shared by candidates
from the aforementioned three institutions.
12.      The GTVI and DAI would focus primarily on improving the quality of
their existing programs. GTVI's capacity would be increased by only 10
graduates per year, to a total of 108, as a result of adding a program in
electricity installation. The DAI would also expand its output only
slightly by increasing output in its home management program by 5 graduates
per year-.-- No additional instructional staff would be required for these
two institutions. As the MTC would be a new institution, it would require
8 new staff members. Additional recurrent costs which Grenada would incur
by implementation of the subproject (EC$186,000) would be 2.3 percent of
the annual education budget and 0.4 percent of the annual Governmental
budget. This additional cost should be manageable.
C. St. Kitts and Nevis                             4
13.      St. Kitts and Nevis has a combined land area of 104 square miles
and a total population estimated at 46,000. The labor force of the two-
island country includes about 17,000 individuals of whom approximately
13,500 are thought to be actively employed. The first half of the current



- 40-
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 7
decade has seen a relatively sharp decline of employment in the sugar
industry (-27.7 percent) with a compensating increase in manufacturing
(28.7 percent). If projected expansion plans within the electronic
assembly and garment subsectors materialize, the level of unemployment
should decrease substantially. The country, as a result of direct policy
initiatives by the Government, has enjoyed considerable success in
attracting enclave manufacturing activities. These operations include
garment ani shoe production, electronic component assembly, and data
processing activities. Furthermore, a number of smaller units (up to 25
employees) have been established over the past three years by local
entrepreneurs in metal processing, handicrafts, furniture, pottery, and
boat building and repair. The Government hopes to strengthen the economy
as a whole by giving special attention to the non-sugar sector. It is
recognized that achievement of this goal will require Improvements in the
education and training system.
14.      St. Kitts and Nevis has a school system whose quantitative
performance is unusually high when compared with those in many other
similar countries. It also is making improvements, with assistance from
the Caribbean Examination Council, in the quality of educational and
articulation among grade levels. The country has ten years of compulsory
education, post-primary enrollment is as large as primary enrollment, gross
enrollment ratio is over 100 percent for the 6-15 years age group; there is
equal participation of boys and girls in the education system; and total
enrollment is equivalent to about 30 percent of the population. The
country has 31 primary schools, 6 secondary schools, two sixth form
colleges, a teachers college, and a technical college.
15.      In order to enable the country to meet skilled and semi-skilled
manpower needs, the proposed project would include for St. Kitts and Nevis
construction of classrooms and shops for two junior secondary school
multipurpose training centers (one in St. Kitts and the other in Nevis) and
furniture and equipment for these two schools plus the St. Kitts Technical
College in St. Kitts. There would also be construction of a new Hotel
Training Unit for the technical college. Fellowships would be provided for
10 vocational instructors (90 staff months), 2 supervisors (8 staff months)
and one maintenance technician (9 staff months). The capacity of the
technical college would be expanded from an average 130 at present to 150
graduates per year. The two multipurpose training centers would increase
their outputs from a combined total of 245 at present to 360 students. The
number of additional teachers to be required would be one technical college
instructoc and 8 teachers for the multipurpose training centers.
Additional recurrent costs to result from implementation of the St. Kitts
and Nevis subproject (EC$360,000) are estimated to be equivalent to about
3.7 percent of the annual education budget and 0.5 percent of the annual
Governmental budget. Thus, the increase in the education budget for St.
Kitts and Nevis would be of considerable magnitude. Benefiting from the
feasibility studies which the proposed project would provide in the
project beneficiary states, the Government would consider wayes to
reduce costs elsewhere in educadion or to introduce cost-recovery measures
in order to make adequate funds available for the proposed subproject.



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Page ) o 7
D. St. Lucia
16.      St. Lucia, with 238 square miles of land area, has a population of
about 131,000. Of its estimated 44,000 labor force, about 33,000 are
thought to be actively employed. A main element of the Government's
strategy for development continues to be diversification of the economy.
Despite some progress in this effort, the economy is still excessively
dependent on agriculture, partiralarly bananas. Even with a reorganization
and modernization of agriculture, it is recognized that the potential for
creating jobs in this sector is limited. The Government's strategy,
therefore, is to encourage industry and tourism in order to attain some
balance in the economy. The new industries attracted so far have been
mainly of the assembly type, so their value has been largely in employment
they provide. Moreover, they are dependent on the CARICOM market, whose
recent trade restrictions have had a repressive impact on their
performance. Tourism has experienced impressive growth in recent years and
the Government plans to expand the sector even further as part of the
diversification effort. While the Government is firmly committed to
establishing and implementing new development policies, it has been
hampered by a scarcity of administrative, professional, skilled and semi-
skilled workers. The Government recognizes that the country's education
and training system must be reformed to produce the kinds of trained people
with the skills necessary to implement its development plan.
17.      St. Lucia, during the last two decades, has undergone a rapid
transformation toward improvement in its education system, both
qualitatively and quantitatively. The country now has 82 priaary schools,
5 junior secondary schools, 6 senior secondary schools, a sixth forn
college, a technical college, a hotel trade school, a teacher training
college, and a technical teacher training college. All tertiary
institutions have been integrated into the Sir Arthur Lewis College, which
also will offer middle-management and first-year university courses.
18.      The Governnent has taken Important steps during the last decade to
correct deficiencies and inadequacies of its education system. These
include raising academic standards, improving the output, and adjusting the
system's orientation, operation and structure to the emerging needs of the
country. Key actions under these areas have been the creation of new
criteria for student evaluation, new junior and comprehensive secondary
schools, preservice primary teacher training, and the consolidation of
post-secondary institutions. These reforms have contributed to a greater
awareness and acceptance of the need for change and have laid the
groundwork for more fundamental reforms which are envisioned, particularly
in the areas of post-secondary education, teacher training, and
occupational education.
19.      The proposed project would conform with the Government's plans for
expand_ng and improving the quality of work-oriented education and
training. It would provide for St. Lucia construction of new classrooms
and laboratory/shop buildings for the Horne Fortune Technical College
adjacent to others on space already owned by the College. Furniture and
equipment would be provided to complement the new facility. The subproject
would also include construction of 2 new classrooms and a workshop, plus



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 7
renovation of one workshop, for the Vieux Fort Senior Secondary School,
along with appropriate furniture and instructional equipment. Fellowship
training would be provided in the Caribbean region (Jamaica) for 9
vocational instructors and one maintenance technician (90 staff-months),
plus one vocat$onal education supervisor (4 staff months). In addition,
internships abfoad would be provided for 5 technical college instructors
(15 staff-months).
20.      Although Ilcreased quality in training would be of foremost
concern in the implementation of this subproject, expanded capacity in
output will also be significant. The annual capacity of the Vieux Fort
Secondary School vocational program would be increased from 140 at present
to 220, while the technical college annual output would increase from 88 at
present to 162. Implementation of the proposed subproject would require 7
additional secondary school staff and 11 technical college staff.
Additional recurrent costs to result from implementation of tie subproject
(EC$641,000) are estimated to be 2.3 percent of the annual education budget
and 0.5 percent of the Governmental annual budget. While these percentages
are not insignificant for St. Lucia, they should be manageable,
particularly with some cost-saving and cost-recovery measures to be taken
In the education sector.
C St. Vincent and the Grenadines
21.      St. Vincent and the Grenadines is a small country of several
islands with a total land area of 150 square miles and a population of
about 114,000 people. Its labor force is estimated to be about 42,000 of
whom 34,000 are thought to be actively employed. Though the economy
experienced a slow-down in the early part of the present decade, there have
been some improvements since 1983. Continued improvement in the economy
and ultimate achievement of economic growth rate projections for the long-
term will require expansion of activities in the agriculture, export
manufacturing and tourism sectors. The Goverment plans to encourage
development of the private sector in the industrialization process in an
effort to reduce unemployment. Development of the education and training
sector is seen as a key ingredient of industrialization within the country.
22.      As is the case with other countries in the OECS region, St.
Vincent and the Grenadines is attempting, through several measures,
including assistance from the Caribbean Examination Council, to increase
the quality of its education and training system. It is concerned about
preparing its youth for contributing positively to society; thus, the
development of employment skills among its young people is a key element in
the Government's plans for educational reform.
23.      The proposed project would assist the Government in achieving the
goal of having a highly skilled labor force with more individuals prepared
to participate actively in it. The St. Vincent and the Grenadines
subproject would include limited renovation of teaching facilities in the
St. Vincent Technical College, located in Arnos Vale, the Girls Business
School in Kingston, and Richmond Hill Home Economics Center. In addition,
furniture and equipment would be provided to complement those which already
exist in these schools. Construction, furniture and equipment would be



_ 43 -
ANNEX IV
FPag e' of 7
included for 2 new multipurpose training centers to be located in Carapan
and Georgetown, for serving junior secondary feeder schools. Fellowship
training would be provided in the Caribbean region (Jamaica) for 12
vocational instructors (108 staff-months), S vocational and/or technical
supervisors (20 staff-months)p and 2 equipmnt maintenance tcchnicians (18
staff-months) who would service and maintain instructional equipment of all
vocational and technical schools in the country.
24.      Output of the technical college would be increased by about 30
graduates per year, with the addition of new program in electrical
installation and radio-television repair and by expanding the existing
busin ess studies program. The Home Economics Center would double its
output to about 240 individuals per year by expanding training program in
foods and nutrition and clothing and textiles, supporting expeeted
increased employment in tourism and the garment industries. No additional
Instructors would be required for the Technical College, Hoe Economics
Center, and Girls Business School, although the 2 new multipurpose training
centers would need * total of 12 teachers. Additional recurrent costs to
be generated for St. Vincent and the Grenadines by the proposed subproject
(EC$134,000) vould be 2.1 percent of the annual education budget and 0.4
percent of the annual Govermental budget. This additional cost should be
manageable.



Iz
GRAN
W  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a-  ---- .0 
o a' 
tt ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~tl WALII. .li  AtAIAV 
Vlnr.NCr ->11> Li ti-riIL ElTA 1 .
ANI)IIOS ~ ~    ~    ~    ON 1,fa     .0A )
&                                ^KACLINS 1.
°                 HGREAT INAGUAI .
CAFMAN IS.                                                                      -
JAMAICA                                               r'I
N,           |         BELIZE
GUATEMALA -'
HONDURAS
'NICARAGUA
Cos~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
90'                                         CO538. ~~                                             ~". _--
¾ ,               PANAMA                                                    /
~-               r-CANAL
CARIFTA/OECS DISTANCES IN  AIR ROUTE MILES                         f      P   A
_      u G  |  *
_  _         Ul   F    I          u        e a               0_
.r-c    z          -     m
*  .    .     ~~~~~~~ .3         0 
ANTIGUA        454  293  232   63   35  991  991  555  1235  1749  320
BARBADOS       214  116  115  358  357 102 0  5 70  158  254.  1773
BELIZE        2171 1189 1847 1716 1742  758 2528 2133 1913   _                      e".6 gaff k
DOMINICA       358  179   97  17G   I SO 1155  715  153                     Mr mms disaw or NM
GRENADA        I         I           la 7 4  12  4 2 9      91 1M5 466  n l  tus   d of T    O       l *
GUYANA         353  534  557  895  857 1770                                CGuporshoa The d     orwnufim
_                                                                    use _4   __ _d  did he boudrn  bm
JAMKAICA      1413 1131 1089  953  9_                     o 4               on o nuda nrot ,p on N
*    --       --                                              parf af Thu WorlSW  a-id 
IONTSERRAT   490  329  26B1  51                                            kftnmulFh h       nv   wn
ST. iiTrs    517  355  294                                                  of any Mrnha or any
ST. LUCIA      230   5                                                     sWc .M      t   er  ot
ST. VINCENT  177                                                                               80°
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 10611R3
THE CARIBBEAN AREA
Orgonization of Eastern Caribbean States Members (OECS)
AN II(iUA Caribbeon  Development Bank Members
-.-- International Boundaries
100 50  0       100    200    300    400
MILES
* UMAYA(IUANA t.                     100  0   100  200  300 400 500  600
tz ,_CAICO}S It,                              KILOMETERS
20"-
HAITI, DOMINICAN                          VIrICIN ISAtw.)
I REPUBLIC                            A.s.a    NCIS  UILLA
ST, MARTIN      IlAIiRUIDIA
PUERTO RICO     ST KIlTS        ANTIGUA
AND NI:VIS
MONTSE RRAT
GUADELOUPE
DOMINICA
MARTINIQUE
ST. LtiCIA
ST. VINCENT         BARBADOS
ARUBA
CURAgAO                                   GRENADA
BONAI RE
MARGARITA           rOBAGO
rRINIoAD             lop
!
t  V  E N   E  Z  U  E  [  A(
GLUYANA
M   B  I  A                                                                           >
<B R A Z  IL L-_f.
APRIL 1987



