OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1785 CRG
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Caribbean Development Bank -
Regional Vocational and Technical Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Dated                                , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1785 CRG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            4                , 1987, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (the Borrower), a regional development
public organization established as a bank and operating under an
Agreement entered into at Kingston, Jamaica, on October 1969 by
the Governments of the several States and Territories which were
signatories thereto.
WHEREAS (A) Each Eligible Country, as the term is defined
in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement, and the
Borrower, having satisfied themselves as to the feasibility and
priority  of  the Project described    in  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement, have requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Borrower with
the  participation,   including  financial  assistance,  of  the
Eligible Countries, and is aimed at fostering the cooperation and
regional efforts in the education sector by the member countries
of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (tie Organiza-
tion);
(C) for the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower will
make available to each Eligible Country a portion of the proceeds
of the Credit, all as provided in this Agreement; and
(D) the OPEC Fund, as the term is defined in paragraph (f)
of Section 1.02 of this Agreement will further assist each
Eligible Country in financing the Project;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "Generai Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "Organization"  means   the  Organization   of  Eastern
Caribbean States as established by virtue of the Treaty entered
into in Basseterre, St. Christopher, on June 18, 1981 by the
Governments of the following States and Territory: Antigua and
Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and Montserrat;
(b)  "Eligible  Country" means   any   state  that, on   the
Effective Date, or on a later date as determined by the
Association, is a member of the Organization and, as a member of
the Association, is listed in Schedule 6 to this Agreement,
as such schedule may be amended from time to time by the
Association;
(c) "Government" means the government of an Eligible
Country; provided, however, that, if the context so requires for
purposes of this Agreement (including the General Conditions),
the term includes the Government of any country that at one point
in time was an Eligible Country even if it later ceased to be so;
(d) "Sub-project" means a specific development project
consisting of activities aimed at enhancing education services
in one of the Eligible Countries, to be carried out by the
Government of the Eligible Country in question, utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan, and which is described in Part B of
the  Project;   "Dominica  Sub-project"  means   the  Sub-project
described in Part B.1 of the Project; "Grenada Sub-project"
means the Sub-project described in Part B.2 of the Project;
"St. Kitts and Nevis Sub-project" means the Sub-project described
in Part B.3 of the Project; "St. Lucia Sub-project" means the
Sub-project described in Part B.4 of the Project; and "St.
Vincent and the Grenadines Sub-project" means the Sub-project
described in Part B.5 of the Project;
(e) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made out
of the proceeds of the Credit by the Borrower to a Government for
the financing of: (i) a Sub-project to be carried out by such
Government; and (ii) such Government's Share, as the term is
defined   below;  "Sub-loan  Agreement"   means  the  contractual


﻿arrangement entered into between an Eligible Country and CDB
pursuant   to Section 3.01 (b) (v) of this Agremeent providing,
inter alia, for the terms and conditions under which a Sub-loan
is to be made; and "Government's Share" means the portion or
portions to be shared by each Government of the cost of
expenditures under Part A of the Project to be financed with the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to
Category (4) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as the method or methods for such apportion-
ment are stipulated from time to time under the corresponding
Sub-loan Agreement;
(f) "OPEC Fund" means the OPEC Fund for International
Development established by the States Members of the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries by virtue of the Agreement
signed in Paris on January 28, 1976, as amended;
(g) "Prior Credit", "Special Action Credit" and "Preceding
Credit" mean, respectively, the credits provided under: (i) a
Development Credit Agreement between the Association and the
Borrower dated January 9, 1980; (ii) a special action credit
agreement between the Association, as Administrator of the
Special Account established with funds contributed by members of
the European Economic Community, and the Borrower, dated January
9, 1980; and (iii) a development credit agreement between the
Association and the Borrower dated May 27, 1983;
(h) "Charter" mea,is the Agreement of October 18, 1969
establishing the Borrower, referred to in the Preamble to this
Agreement, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(i) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending
and investments policy approved by the Directors of the Borrower
on December 18, 1970, as modified from time to time in compliance
with the provisions of the Agreements referred to in paragraph
(g) above of this Section;
(j) "Policies and Procedures Manual" means the Borrower's
manual of policies and procedures dated September 1977, as modi-
fied from time to time in compliance with the provisions of the
Agreement referred to in paragraph (g) above;
(k) "Foreign currency", for the purposes of any Sub-pro-
ject, means any currency other than the currency of an Eligible
Country;


﻿-4-
(1) "Special Account" means the account to be established
by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; "Dominica Sub-account", "Grenada Sub-account",
"St. Kitts and Nevis Sub-account", "St. Lucia Sub-account",
"St. Vincent   and   the  Grenadines  Sub-account"  and  "Project
Implementation Team Sub-account" means each of the Sub-accounts
of the Special Account to be opened pursuant to such paragraph
and Section in respect of each of the Sub-projects described in
Parts B.1, 2,    3, 4 and 5 of the Project, and in respect of
Part A of the Project, respectively, and "Sub-account" means
unless the content indicates otherwise, any one of the aforesaid
sub-accounts; and
(m) "Project Implementation Team" means the team esta-
blished by the Borrower for purposes of Part A of the Project as
referred to in the Borrower's paper BD/187, the head of which
team will report directly to the Senior Manager of the Borrower's
Project Services Division.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. (a) The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Cre6it
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to four million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 4,800,000).
(b) The Credit shall be part of the special funds resources
of the Borrower, as defined in Article 9 (3) of the Charter and,
consequently, shall be funnelled through a special fund, other
than special funds established by the Borrower for purposes of
the Prior Credit, the Special Action Credit and the Preceeding
Credit, to be established for the purposes of carrying out the
Project. Except insofar as this Agreement requires otherwise, the
utilization of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
the Charter prescribing how slich special funds resources shall be
utilized.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Borrower,


﻿- 5 -
on behalf of one or more Governments, or directly by a Govern-
ment, both on account of withdrawals made by such Government or
Governments under a Sub-Loan or Sub-loans to meet the reasonable
cost of goods and services requized for the Project in respect of
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a bank accept-
able to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. The Special Account shall have 6
sub-accounts, one each for the Dominica Sub-project, the Grenada
Sub-project, the St. Christopher and Nevis Sub-project, the
Saint Lucia Sub-project and the St. Vincent and the Grenadines
Sub-project respectively, and one more for Part A of the Project.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower s&hall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
the Effective Date or, if so determined by the Association, from
December 3, 1987, whichever is earlier, to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the
Credit Account or shall be cancelled; provided, however, that,
the commitment charge shall not accrue before a date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
any Government or in the territory where the Borrower is located;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time
be designated or selected ,ursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿-6 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1997, and ending
March 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 2007 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not utilize, or permit the utilization
of, the proceeds of the Credit to co-finance projects financed by
the proceeds of any other loan or credit made or extended by the
Bank or the Association.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
and conduct its operations and affairs with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices, with qualified management and personnel and
in accordance with the procedures described in the Policies and
Procedures Manual. The Borrower shall provide each Government,
promptly as needed and in accordance with the terms agreed
therewith, the funds, services and other resources for the
Project committed by the Borrower to the Government in question
pursuant to sub-paragraphs (iv), (v) and (vi) of paragraph (b)
below.


﻿-7-
(b) The Borrower shall enter with each of the Governments
into contractual arrangements by means of which the Borrower
shall cause each of the Governments to take such action on such
Government's part as shall be necessary or convenient to enable
the Borrower to carry out the Project including, without limita-
tion: (i) to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required from each Government for
the carrying out of the Project; (ii) to provide, without limita-
tion to such Government's obligations pursuant to (i) above, all
resources required for (A) the execution of the corresponding
Sub-project, and (B) covering such Government's Share, such
resources to include, but not to be limited to, the proceeds of
the loans made to such Governments for the Project by the OPEC
Fund pursuant to (iii) below, by the Borrower, out of its own
resources, pursuant to (iv) below, and by the Borrower, out of
the proceeds of the Credit, pursuant to (v) below; (iii) to
enter with the OPEC Fund into contractual arrangements for the
borrowing therefrom and utilization for purposes of financing
civil works under the Project, of freely convertible funds
that will amount to not less than the equivalent of $500,000, in
the case of Dominica, the equivalent of $500,000, in the case of
Grenada, the equivalent of $500,000 in the case of St. Kitts and
Nevis, the equivalent of $500,000, in the case of Saint Lucia,
and the equivalent of $500,000, in the case of Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines; (iv) to borrow from the Borrower, and utilize
for purposes of the Project, freely convertible funds that will
amount, to not less than the equivalent of $430,000, in the case
of Dominica, $347,000, in the case of Grenada, $352,000 in the
case of St. Kitts and Nevis, $876,000,in the case of Saint Lucia,
and $795,000 in the case of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines;
(v) to borrow from the Borrower in terms satisfactory to the
Association including those stipulated under Section 3.02 of this
Agreement, and to utilize for purposes of the Project, the pro-
ceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Government
in question in the corresponding Category of the table set forth
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (including a
portion of the proceeds allocated to Category (4) of such table
equal to the applicable Government's Share), as such table and
Schedule may be changed from time to time pursuant to the pro-
visions of this Agreement, or by further agreement between the
Association and the Borrower, acting on its own behalf or on
behalf of the applicable Government or Governments; (vi) to
appoint the Borrower as agent of the Government in question, on
terms and conditions that shall be substantially similar for
every Government and adequate to enable the Borrower to comply


﻿-8-
with its obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section, both
for purposes of hiring consultant services on behalf of each of
the Governments in order to assist the Project Implementation
Team in performing its tasks under Part A of the Project and for
acquiring, also on behalf of each of the Governments, the goods
required for the execution of the corresponding Sub-project; and
(vii) to execute the corresponding Sub-project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordOance with appropriate practices and
to procure all goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed totally or partially out of
the proceeds of the Credit relent to the corresponding Government
pursuant to sub-paragaraph (v) of this paragraph, in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each of the contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Association and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obliga-
tions under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the objectives of
the Project. To that end, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate
or waive any substantive provision of such contractual arrange-
ments concerning the matters referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section or any provision thereof concerning the payment of prin-
cipal of, and service charge or other charges on, any Sub-loan,
without the Association's concurrence and shall cause each of the
Governments not to amend, abrogate or waive any provision of such
Government's contract with the OPEC Fund entered into for pur-
poses of the Project pursuant to paragraph (b) (iii) of this
Section, without the Borrower's concurrence.
Section 3.02. For the purpose of carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall relend to each Government the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the corresponding Eligible
Country under the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and
such Government's Share of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
to Category (4) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of such
Schedule. Such relending shall be made under Sub-loans which
shall be denominated in SDR determined as of the respective dates
of withdrawal from the Credit Account and repayable in amounts
equivalent to the value of the currency or currencies withdrawn
from the Credit Account for the purpose, expressed in terms of
SDR determined as of the date, or the respective dates, of repay-
ment. The grace period shall be approximately ten years and the
repayment term shall be approximately fifty years for each
Sub-loan; provided, however, that neither the grace period nor


﻿-9-
the last matutity under any Sub-loan shall extend beyond a date
15 days earlier than the first payment date set forth in Section
2.07 or a date 15 days earlier than the last payment date set
forth in Section 2.07, respectively. Repayment of a Sub-loan
by the Government in question shall be in installments: (i) pay-
able not more frequently than quarterly or not less frequently
than semiannually; (ii) equivalent, in their semiannual aggre-
gate, to one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of the principal
amount relent under the Sub-loan in question and outstanding
during the first ten years of the repayment period thereof; and
(iii) equivalent, also in their semiannual aggregate, to one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount outstanding
during the remainder of such period. The Government in question
shall pay to the Borrower a service charge at the rate of three-
fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time and a commitment charge on the same terms and conditions of
the commitment charge payable by the Borrower to the Association
as set forth in Section 2.04 of this Agreement on the principal
amount of the Sub-loan not withdrawn from time to time. All pay-
ments under a Sub-loan shall be made, in the currency specified
in Section 2.08 of this Agreement or in such other eligible cur-
rency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to Section 4.02 of the General Conditions and,
either semiannually or quarterly, on dates thirty days, and
thirty and one hundred and twenty days, respectively, before each
of the dates set forth in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. It shall be a condition in all contracts or
agreements for Sub-loans that the Government agree that the
rights of the Borrower under such contracts or agreements shall
be assigned by the Borrower to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obli-
gations under agreements under which funds have been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower for relending,
investment or management. The Borrower shall promptly inform the
Association of any action which would have the effect of assign-
ing, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision
of, any such agreement.
Section 3.05. (r) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain the
Project Implementation Team until the Closing Date or, if the
Borrower's right to mixake withdrawals from the Credit Account has


﻿- 10 -
not been terminated on or before the Closing Date, until a later
date to be determined by the Association; (ii) ensure at all
times the ability of the Project Implementation Team to perform
the tasks described under Part A of the Project; (iii) maintain a
member of the Borrower's staff as head of the Project Imple-
mentation Team (the Project Coordinator) and provide the Project
Coordinator with such resources as shall be necessary to enable
the Project Coordinator to perform the functions of such posi-
tion; and (iv) provide the Project Implementation Team with the
services of the consultants hired by the Borrower, on behalf of
the Eligible Countries   for purposes of Part A of the Project,
and ensure that such consultants report directly to the Project
Coordinator.
(b) The Borrower shall provide the Project Implementation
Team with the facilities and staff, including support staff,
required for the performance of the functions described in Part A
of the Project, particularly Part A.2 (b) of the Project, and
shall not replace the Project Coordinator or the Senior Manager
of the Borrower's Services Division, without providing the
Association a reasonable opportunity to express its views on the
qualifications and experience of the person proposed for any such
replacement.
(c) The   Borrower   shall,  on   behalf  of   the  Eligible
Countries, hire the person referred to in Section 6.01 (c) (i) of
this Agreement within thirty (30) days from the Effective Date,
and the remainder of the consultants whose services are required
for carrying out Part A of the Project, within 150 days from the
Effective Date.
Section 3.06. Wherever the Borrower shall request any change
in the allocation of Credit proceeds in respect of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, or in the
distribution of the Authorized Allocation, as defined in para-
graph 1 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, it shall be deemed,
subject to the proviso to Section 5.04 to the General Conditions,
that the Borrower is acting under a valid power of attorney
conferred by the Eligible Country or Countries in question.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that, by a date not
later than one year after the E'fective Date, the education
finance consultant or consultants to be hireu by Lhe Borrower for
purposes of Part A.1 (c) of the Project have completed a report
on their findings and recommendations for purposes of that Part


﻿- 11 -
of the Project and furnished such report, for comments, to the
Borrower, IDA and the Sub-project Manager in each Eligible
Country.
Section 3.08. Without limiting the generality of the
provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower and the Association shall, on or about September 30,
1990 undertake a joint interim assessment of the performance of
each Eligible Country in respect of the implementation of the
corresponding Sub-project with a view to making recommendations
for corrective actions, if warranted. The Borrower shall take all
such action on its part so as to ensure the input of the Board
referred in Part A.3 of the Project, if established by then, in
the preparation of the aforesaid report.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts, including separate accounts for
each Sub-loan, and records adequate to monitor and record the
progress of the Project and of each Sub-project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the Borrower
and of the special fund to be established pursuant to Section
2.01 (b) of this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this Section and the Special
Account, and its financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements), for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii)   furnish  to  the Association, as    soon  as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year: (A) certified copies of its aforesaid
accounts and financial statements for such year as so audited;
and (B) a certified copy of the report of such audit by such
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the said records,
accounts, financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 12 -
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain or cause to be retained, until at least
one year after the completion of the audit for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures; and
(iii) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure sub-
mitted during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the
Borrower which, in the judgment of the Association, would mate-
rially affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfac-
tory to the Association as shall be necessary to protect itself
against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of
exchange between the currencies used in its lending and borrowing
operations.
Section 4.04. The Association and the Borrower shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the administration,
operation and financial condition of the Borrower and any sub-
sidiary, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning   such   administration,   operations  and   financial
condition.


﻿- 13 -
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the records referred to in Section
4.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Charter or the
Statement of Policy or the Policies and Procedures Manual which
would materially and adversely affect the operations or the
financial condition of the Borrower;
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower or of the fund to be established
pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) (i) the Bank or the Association shall have suspended in
whole or in part the right of any Government to make withdrawals
in respect of any loan made by the Bank to, or with the guarantee
of, the corresponding Eligible Country, or under any development
credit agreement between such Government and the Association,
respectively, or (ii) the Borrower shall have suspended in whole
or in part the right of any Government to make withdrawals under
any loan agreement between such Government and the Borrower,
or (iii) any Government shall have failed to make payment of
principal, interest, service charge or any another amount due to
the Borrower, or to the Association as assignee thereof, under a
Sub-loan, or (iv) any Government shall have failed to make any
payment due to the Bank in consequence of any guarantee or other
financial obligation of any kind extended by the Bank to any
third party with the agreement of such Government; provided,
however, that any suspension of the right of the Borrower to make


﻿- 14 -
withdrawals from the Credit Account based on this paragraph shall
be limited to that part of the Credit intended to be used to
finance one or more Sub-loans to the Government or Governments in
question;
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been creat-
ed or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial situation or
the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or the
carrying out of the Project;
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of an Eligible Country to withdraw
the proceeds of any loan made to it by the
OPEC Fund for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(B) any   such loan or any     loan made by the
Borrower to a Government for purposes of the
Project shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Association that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Eligible Country
or Government in question, or the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under or related
to such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Eligible Country
or Government in question from other sources
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association and the Borrower and provided, fur-
ther, that Sub-paragraph (i) (A) of this paragraph
shall apply only in respect of that part of the
Credit intended to be used to finance one or more
Sub-loans to the Government or Governments in
question; and


﻿- 15 -
(g) that any Government shall have agreed to replace the
Borrower as loan administrator in respect of any of the loans
referred to in paragraph (f) (i) (A) of this Section without
the Association's concurrence; provided, however, that this
paragraph shall apply only in the limited fashion stipulated in
paragraph (f) (ii) in fine of this Section.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) or (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur;
(b) any event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(c) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion consisting of paying monies on the part of a.iy Government
under any Sub-loan Agreement; and
(d) any event specified in paragraph (f)(i)(B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the contractual arrangements: (i) stipulated under
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement between the Borrower and at
least each of three Eligible Countries, and (ii) referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement, between each of
the same three Eligible Countries and the OPEC Fund, have
been entered into in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, and that the Association has received evidence,
satisfactory to the Association, that the execution thereof on
behalf of the Borrower and the Government in question have been


﻿- 16 -
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
Governmental action, respectively, and that all conditions, if
any, other than the effectiveness of this Agreement and precedent
to the initial disbursement for the Project thereunder, or to the
effectiveness thereof, as the case may be, have been fulfilled;
(b) that the Association has received an instrument in form
and substance satisfactory to the Association, whereby the Bor-
rower assigns to the Association the Borrrower's rights under
each of the Sub-loan Agreements with three Governments referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section subject to and in accordance
with the provisions of the Assignment Agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Borrower; and
(c) that: (i) the person that will provide the services
required for purposes of Part A.1 (a) of the Project has been
selected by the Borrower and approved by the Sub-project Manager
in each Eligible Country; and (ii) the person that will provide
the services for purposes of Part A.2 (b) of the Project has been
appointed by the Borrower in form and substance satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished tu the Association, namely, that the Borrower shall
have received on behalf of each applicable Government an opinion
satisfactory to the Association showing that the corresponding
Sub-loan Agreement with such Government has been duly authorized
or ratified by such Government and is legally binding upon such
Government in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date of September 30, 1987, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 17 -
For the Borrower:
Caribbean Development Bank
P.O. Box 408
Wildey
St. Michael
Barbados, W.I.
Cable address:                      Telex:
CARIBANK                           WB2287
Barbados
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By               A
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
By/j/               Authorized Representative


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a) Dominica              60,000           14%
Sub-project
(b) Grenada               70,000           16%
Sub-project
(c)  St. Kitts and       370,000           52%
Nevis Sub-
project
(d)  Saint Lucia       1,030,000           75%
Sub-project
(e) Saint Vincent        720,000           67%
and the
Grenadines
Sub-project
(2) Fellowships:                                100% of foreign
expenditures
(a) Dominica             130,000
Sub-project
(b)  Grenada             120,000
Sub-project


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(c)  St. Kitts and        90,000
Nevis Sub-
project
(d)  Saint Lucia         120,000
Sub-project
(e)  Saint Vincent       120,000
and the
Grenadines
Sub-project
(3) Unallocated:
(a) Dominica              30,000
Sub-project
(b) Grenada               30,000
Sub-project
(c)  St. Kitts and        70,000
Nevis Sub-
project
(d)  Saint Lucia         170,000
Sub-project
(e)  Saint Vincent       110,000
Sub-project


﻿- 21 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)  to be Financed
(4)  Consultants' ser-                         100%
vices for the
Project Implementation
Team and other
expenditures (includ-
ing expenditures for
salaries but excluding
expenditures for
goods) of the Project
Implementation Team
1,560,000
TOTAL                 4,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of an Eligible
Country for goods or services supplied from the territory of any
country other than that of an Eligible Country; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of an Eligible Country or for goods or services
supplied from the territory of an Eligible Country; provided,
however, that if the currency of such Eligible Country is also
that of another country from the territory of which goods or
services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such
goods or services shall be deemed to be foreign expenditures.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: at the regional level:
(i) to enhance coordination amongst countries within the Eastern
Caribbean sub-region in vocational and technical education and
matters directly related thereto, such as development of regional
training programs, curricula standardization, common instruc-
tional material, and testing and certification of proficiency;
and, at the level of each Eligible Country: (ii) to upgrade
quality and job relevance of vocational and technical education;
(iii) to expand the training capacity for vocational and tech-
nical education; (iv) to improve efficiency and effectiveness of
the vocational-technical education system; and (v) to develop the
capabilities for establishing and maintaining a labor market
information system as a tool for determining manpower and
training needs. The aforesaid notwithstanding, it is further
recognized, as an objective of the Project, that the activities
thereunder in pursuit of the aforesaid Eligible Country level
objectives will be performed with a view to maximizing the
regional impact of the Project.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A:
1.   Establishment  and  operation   of  a  unit   (the  Project
Implementation Team) that will be located at the Borrower's
premises and that will hire, on behalf of Eligible Countries,
the services of the consultant services listed below. The Project
Implementation Team will, inter alia, by means of the utiliza-
tion of such services, undertake to facilitate for each Eligible
Country the attainment of the following results:
(a) Refinement of curricula, course syllabi and institu-
tional management policies and procedures, and development of
national and regional training board policies and procedures.
These tasks will require about forty-eight (48) staff-months of
vocational-technical education consultant services.
(b) Establishment in the Ministry of Education or Labor,
as the case may be, of each Eligible Country, of a labor market


﻿- 23 -
information system for the preparation of labor market/job
analysis studies and development of a system of intra-regional
links for the sharing of such information. These tasks will
require   about  twenty-four   (24)   staff-months   of  manpower
specialist consultant services and the arrangement of meetings of
representatives   of  each   Eligible   Country's   labor  market
information system for the purpose of strengthening such
intra-regional links.
(c) (I) Determination of the feasibility of:
(i) improving training efficiency by increasing
class size where possible and by merging
courses which are common to several training
specializations   and  thus   increasing  the
student-teacher ratio for such courses;
(ii) establishing a system of student fees at the
post-secondary level and student loans for
those unable to pay said fees;
(iii) establishing cost-savings and cost-recovery
schemes through on-the-job training programs
that  would  provide   paid  repair  services
rendered by the instructors and trainees;
(iv) providing textbooks to students that would
pay a user's fee therefor; and
(v) other cost recovery schemes; and
(II) putting into effect one or more of said schemes.
These tasks will require about twelve (12) staff-
months of education finance consultant services.
2.   In addition to its activities under 1 above, the Project
Implementation Team will:
(a) Design and implement procurement procedures, including:
(i) grouping of goods and preparation of bidding packages, and
tendering thereof on behalf of Eligible Countries, so as to allow
economies of scale stemming from bulk procurement of goods to
be acquired under Part B of the Project while distributing the
costs thereof among the Eligible Countries; and (ii) advise the


﻿- 24 -
J 'llible Countries in matters pertaining to procurement of civil
works contracts. These tasks will require about thirty-six (36)
staff-months of procurement specialist consultant services.
(b) Advise each Eligible Country on architectural design
and school construction works, in respect of facilities included
in Part B of the Project. This task will require about eighteen
(18) staff-months of architect and/or construction engineer
services.
3.   Finally, the Project Implementation Team will also undertake
a central role in preparatory works, including travel arrange-
ments to and from, and meetings in, Saint Lucia, all leading to
the establishment, within the framework of the Organization, of a
Regional Training Board. The Board is expected to be responsible
for developing and implementing cooperative efforts on region-
wide needs such as course syllabi development, special :1n-service
instructor  training, improvement    of  institutional  managers,
seminars on effective and economical cost recovery techniques,
skill training courses on a regional basis which would not be
economically justified for an individual country to develop, such
as diesel fuel injection mechanics, industrial electronics and
commercial industrial electronics and commercial air conditioning
and refrigeration, and other priority needs.
Part B
Within the framework of Part A of the Project, the
activities described in each of the following sub-projects will
be executed:
1.   Dominica Sub-project
(a) Limited renovation of the training facilities of
Clifton Dupigney Technical College and of the vocational blocks
of Goodwill and Portsmouth senior secondary schools and of Grand
Bay, Castle Bruce, Portsmouth, Marigot Weir, St. Joseph and
Goodwill junior secondary schools.
(b) Acquisition and utilization of improved and updated
equipment, including spare parts therefor as required, for all of
the above facilities.


﻿- 25 -
(c) A program of fellowship training in the Caribbean
region for about ten (10) vocational education instructors (about
ninety (90) staff-months) and eight (8) vocational education
supervisors (about twenty-four (24) staff-months).
(d) A program of internships abroad for about four (4)
technical college instructors (about twelve (12) staff-months).
(e) Establishment of a revolving stock of consumable
supplies (including supplies for repair shops) for use in the
facilities in (a) above as a pilot program for the testing and
putting into effect of cost recovery schemes.
2.   Grenada Sub-project
(a) Limited   renovation  of   the  facilities  of  Grenada
Technical and Vocational Institute and of the Domestic Art
Institute, both at Tanteen, St. Georges.
(b) Construction of a Multipurpose Training Center at
La Fortune, in St. Patrick parish.
(c) Acquisition and utilization of furniture and equipment
(including spare parts therefor, as required) for the above
facilities which, in the case of (a) above, will complement the
furniture and equipment already existing.
(d) A program of fellowship training in the Caribbean
region for about sixteen (16) vocational education instructors
(about one hundred forty-four (144) staff-months).
(e) Establishment of a revolving stock of consumable
supplies (including supplies for repair shops), for use in the
facilities included in (a) and (b) above as a pilot program for
the testing and putting into effect of cost recovery schemes.
3.   St. Kitts and Nevis Sub-project
(a) Construction of new classrooms and shops for two
junior secondary school multipurpose training centers, one in
St. Kitts and the other in Nevis.
(b) Construction of a new Hotel Training Unit on the campus
of the Technical College in St. Kitts.


﻿- 26 -
(c) Acquisition and utilization of furniture and equipment,
including spare parts therefor, as required, for the facilities
to be constructed in (a) above and for the Technical College
referred to in (b) above.
(d) A program of fellowship training in the Caribbean
region for about ten (10) vocational education instructors (about
ninety (90) staff-months), 2 vocational education supervisors
(about eight (8) staff-months) and a maintenance technician
(about nine (9) staff-months).
(e) Establishment of a revolving stock of consumable
supplies (including supplies for repair shops), for use in the
facilities included in (a) above and referred to in (b) above as
a pilot program for the testing and putting into effect of cost
recovery schemes.
4.   St. Lucia Sub-project
(a) Construction of new classrooms and laboratory/shop
buildings for the Morne Fortune Technical College adjacent to
others on space already owned by the College.
(b) Construction of new classrooms and workshops and
renovation of workshop space, all for the Vieux Fort Senior
Secondary School.
(c) Acquisition and utilization of furniture and equipment,
including  spare  parts   therefor, as   required, for   the  new
facilities referred to in (a) above and for        the renovated
facilities in (b) above.
(d) A program of fellowship training in the Caribbean
region for about nine (9) vocational education instructors and
a maintenance technician (about ninety (90) staff-months), and
a vocational education supervisor (about four (4) staff-months).
(e) A program of internships abroad for about five (5)
technical college instructors (about fifteen (15) staff-months).
(f) Establishment of a revolving stock of consumable
supplies (including supplies for repair shops), for use in the
facilities referred to in (a) and (b) above as a pilot program
for the testing and putting into effect of cost recovery schemes.


﻿- 27 -
5.   St Vincent and the Grenadines Sub-project
(a) Limited renovation of teaching facilities in the St.
Vincent Technical College in Arnos Vale, the Girls Business
School in Kingston, and Richmond Hill Home Economics Center.
(b) Construction of two (2) new multipurpose training
centers to be located in Carapan and Georgetown for serving rural
secondary feeder schools.
(c) Acquisition and utilization of furniture and equipment,
including spare parts therefor, as required, for the above
facilities which, in the case of (a) above, will complement the
furniture and equipment already existing.
(d) A program of fellowship training in the Caribbean
Region for about twelve (12) vocational educational instructors
(about one hundred eight (108) staff-months), five (5) vocational
and/or technical educational supervisors (about twenty (20)
staff-months) and two (2) equipment maintenance technicians
(about eighteen (18) staff-months) who would service and maintain
instructional equipment of all vocational and technical schools
in the country.
(e) Establishment of a revolving stock of consumable
supplies (including supplies for repair shops), for use in the
facilities referred to in (a) above and included in (b) above as
a pilot program for the testing and putting into effect cost
recovery schemes.
T  P        *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
Civil works in an Eligible Country may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally in the Eligible Country in question, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.


﻿- 29 -
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants, as
described under the Project, whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981. The top ranked consultant
or consulting firm selected in respect of each field of consul-
tant services shall be submitted to the Eligible Countries for
approval. The appointment of the consultant or consultants in
question shall be conditioned to the aforesaid approval unless
the Borrower considers that one or more of the Eligible Countries
are unreasonably withholding its or their approval. The submis-
sion to the Bank of an unqualified notice from the Borrower
informing on the appointment of one or more consultants shall
be deemed a representation by the Borrower that the Eligible
Countries have approved the Borrower's selection of such
consultant or consultants.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Category" means Category (4), or any
of the Sub-categories of Categories (1) or (2), or all as set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
(the Table);
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Dominica Sub-project, the Grenada Sub-project, the
St. Kitts and Nevis Sub-project, the Saint Lucia Sub-project,
the St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sub-projects or Part A of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the corresponding eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 480,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule and to be distributed in the Sub-accounts as
follows: SDR 50,000 in the Dominica Sub-account, SDR 50,000
in   the Grenada sub-account, SDR 70,000 in the St. Kitts and
Nevis Sub-account, SDR 110,000 in the St. Lucia Sub-account,
SDR 100,000 in the St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sub-account,
and SDR 100,000 in the Project Implementation Team Sub-account.
The amounts so distributed may be redistributed or changed from
time to time by agreement between the Association and the Bor-
rower, the latter acting on behalf of the Eligible Country or
Countries in question.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:


﻿- 31 -
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the  Special   Account  for  the   corresponding  Sub-account  or
Sub-accounts such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account for the corresponding Sub-account or
Sub-accounts such amounts as shall be required to replenish such
Sub-account or Sub-accounts with amounts not exceeding the amount
of payments made out of such Sub-account or Sub-accounts for
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by
the Association from the Credit Account under the respective
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request
for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, any further request for deposit into the Special
Account may be denied by the Association when either of the
following situations arises:
(i)  the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into


﻿- 32 -
in each case by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for each
Sub-project, and for Part A of the Project, as the
case may be, shall be equal to the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawals from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the corresponding Sub-account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished purl;uant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit
into the Special Account for the corresponding Sub-account or
Sub-accounts (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to
the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account, or any of its
Sub-accounts, will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount for crediting to the Credit Account for its immediate
cancellation, or request to the Association the re-distribution
of such amount, pursuant to paragraph 1 (c) of this Schedule, to
other Sub-account or Sub-accounts.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
1.   Section  1.01 is deleted and replaced by      the following
Section 1.01:
"Section 1.01. Application of General Conditions.
These General Conditions set forth certain terms
and conditions generally applicable to development
credits granted by the Association. They apply to any
development credit agreement providing for any such
development credit to the extent and subject to any
modifications set forth in such agreement."
2.   Paragraphs 5 and 9 of Section 2.01 are deleted and replaced
by the following paragraphs 5 and 9:
"5. "Borrower" means the party to the Development
Credit Agreement to which the Credit is granted."
"9. "Project" means the project or program for
which the Credit is granted, as described in the
Development Credit Agreement and as the description
thereof may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association, and other
parties if so stipulated in the Development Credit
Agreement."
3.   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
4.   Paragraph (b) of Section 4.06 is deleted and replaced by the
following paragraph:
"(b) The principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be paid without restrictions of any kind
imposed by any Government, or in the territory of any
Eligible Country, or in the territory where the
Borrower is located."


﻿- 34 -
5.   The following proviso is added at the end of Section 5.04:
"provided, however, that, the preceding provisions
shall not apply to reallocations of Credit proceeds
from Category (4) of the table set forth in Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement to any other
Category of such table without the express consent of
all the Eligible Countries, or to reallocation of
Credit proceeds from one Sub-project to another in
Categories (1) to (3) of such table, in which case the
acquiescence of the Eligible Countries concerned shall
be sought by the Borrower and evidenced in a manner
satisfactory to the Association."
6.   Section 5.08 is deleted and replaced by the following
Section 5.08:
"Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes. It is the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be withdrawn on account of payments for
any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, any
Eligible Country or in the territory where the Borrower
is located, on goods or services, or on the importa-
tion, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To
that end, if the amount of any taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease
the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to
in respect of such item in the Development Credit
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy
of the Association."
7.   Section 5.09. is deleted and replaced by the following
Section 5.09:
"Section 5.09. Payment by the Association. The
Association shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account only to or on the
order of the Borrower, or with the prior and specific
written request of the Borrower, to or on the order of
a Government agency; provided, however, that any
request of the Borrower that such amounts be paid to or
on the order of a Government agency shall be deemed
also a representation made by the Borrower to the


﻿- 35 -
Association that: (i) the Borrower has received, and
has agreed to, a specific written request from an
authorized representative of the Government in question
to the effect that such amounts be paid to or on the
order of the Governments agency in question; and (ii)
that the Borrower is satisfied that the payment in
question is made in direct connection with expenditures
for the Project eligible for financing under the
Credit."
8.   Paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 is deleted and replaced by the
following paragraph (a):
"(a) The Borrower shall have failed to make
payment (notwithstanding the fact that such payment
may have been made by a third party) of principal,
interest, service charges or any other amount due to
the Association or the Bank: (i) under the Development
Credit Agreement, or (ii) under any other development
credit agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, or (iii) under any loan or guarantee agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank, or (iv) in con-
sequence of any guarantee or other financial obligation
of any kind extended by the Bank to any third party
with the agreement of the Borrower, provided however,
that, for purposes of this paragraph a payment made to
the Association by a Government, upon request from the
Association, exercising as assignee of the Borrower the
right of the Borrower to receive such payment from such
Government, shall not be deemed made by a third party."
9.   Paragraph (e) of Section 6.02 is deleted and replaced by the
following paragrah (e):
"(e) (i)   Any of the countries mentioned, as of
the date of this Agreement, in Schedule 6 to the
Development Credit Agreement shall have been deleted
from such Schedule or shall have otherwise ceased to be
an Eligible Country; or (ii) any Eligible Country shall
have been suspended from membership in, or ceased to be
a member of, the Association; or (iii) any Eligible
Country shall have ceased to be a member of the
International Monetary Fund; provided, however, that
any suspension of the right of the Borrower to make


﻿-36 -
withdrawals from the Credit Account based on this
paragraph shall be limited to that part of the Credit
intended to be used to finance one or more Sub-loans to
such Eligible Country."
10. Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
Section 6.03:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account shall have been suspended with
respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous
period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Associa-
tion determines, after consultation with the Borrower,
that an amount of the Credit will not be required to
finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any time, the Asso-
ciation determines that the procurement of any item is
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in the Development Credit Agreement and establishes
the amount of the expenditures in respect of such item
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) after the
Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, or (e) by the
Effective Date, or a later date determined by the
Association, any amount of the Credit allocated to one
or two Sub-projects may not be eligible for withdrawal
from the Credit Account because of lack of fulfillment
of the conditions precedent to effectiveness to, or to
the first disbursement under, any of the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of the
Development Credit Agreement between the OPEC Fund or
the Borrower and the Government or Governments in
question, or because one or more of such contractual
arrangements shall have been terminated by the OPEC
Fund or the Borrower or the Government or Governments
in question, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the
giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall
be cancelled."
11. The words "commitment and" are added between the words
vtogether with the" and the words "service charges thereon" in
the introductory paragraph to Section 7.01.


﻿- 37 -
12. The words "or any Eligible Country" are added after the word
"Borrower" each time it occurs in paragraph (b) of Section 7.01.
13. Section 8.01 is hereby deleted and replaced by the following
Section:
"Section 8.01. Taxes. (a) The principal of, and
other charges on, the Credit and/or the Sub-loans shall
be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes
levied by, or in the territory of any Eligible Country
or in the territory where the Borrower is located.
(b) The Development Credit Agreement, the Assign-
ment Agreement referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of the
Development Credit Agreement, and any other agreement
to which these General Conditions shall be made applic-
able, shall be free from any taxes levied by or in the
territory of, the applicable Eligible Country or where
the Borrower is located on or in connection with the
execution, delivery or registration thereof."
14. Paragraph (b) of Section 9.01 is deleted and rer,'aced by the
following paragraph (b):
"(b)  The  Borrower   shall  cause  each  Eligible
Country to afford reasonable opportunity for repre-
sentatives of the Association to visit any part of its
territories for purposes related to the Credit".
15. Section 9.02 is deleted and replaced by the following:
"Section 9.02. Financial and Economic Data. The
Borrower shall cause each Eligible Country to furnish
to the Association all such information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request with respect to financial
and economic conditions in its territory including its
balance of payments and its external debt as well as
that of its political or administrative subdivisions
and any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for
the account or benefit of such Eligible Country or any
such subdivision, and any institution performing the
functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Eligible Country in
question."


﻿-38 -
SCHEDULE 6
Eligible Countries
Dominica
Grenada
St. Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


