The World Bank                                  t^et N..473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN         D.C. 20433       Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                                         Cable Address: INDEVAS
3      2012
His Excellency
Dr. Luis Miguel Castilla Rubio
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jir6n Junin 319
Lima, Peru
Re:    PERU: Loan No. 7366-PE and Grant No. TF056023-PE (Rural Electrification
Project)
Third Amendment to the Loan and Grant Agreements
Excellency:
Please refer to: (i) the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Peru (the Borrower) and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), dated July 19, 2006 as amended
on December 19, 2007 and January 27, 2010 (the Loan Agreement); and (ii) the Grant Agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank, dated July 19, 2006 as amended on December 19, 2007 and
January 27, 2010 (the Grant Agreement), for the above-captioned Project. Please note that
capitalized terms used in this letter ("Amendment Letter") and not defined herein have the meaning
ascribed to them in the Loan Agreement and the Grant Agreement.
In response to the letters from your Ministry dated January 27, 2012, requesting the Bank to
amend the Loan Agreement to modify the definition of Rural Electrification Provider, the Bank
proposes to amend the Loan Agreement and the Grant Agreement as follows:
1. Section 1.01 (x) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as
follows:
"(x) "Rural Electrification Provider" means the holder of a concession to provide
electricity services qualified in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth
in the Project Operational Manual and in paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement in order to provide electricity service in rural areas under Part A of the
Project."
In addition, to maintain consistency between the Grant Agreement and the Loan Agreement
for this Project, the Bank proposes to amend the Grant Agreement as follows:
2. Section 1.02 (x) of the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as
follows:
"(x) "Rural Electrification Provider" means the holder of a concession to provide
electricity services qualified in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth
in the Project Operational Manual and in paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to the Loan
Agreement in order to provide electricity service in rural areas under Part A of the
Project."


﻿-2-
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating this
Amendment Letter in the spaces provided below. All other provisions of the Loan Agreement and
the Grant Agreement except as amended through this Amendment Letter shall remain in full force
and effect. This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two (2) counterparts each of which shall be
an original. The amendment shall be effective as of the date above written upon receipt of the Bank
of a countersigned copy of this Amendment Letter.
Please also note that the approved Restructuring Paper dated March 13, 2012 will be
disclosed on the Bank's external website.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
usan . Goldmark
irector
Bolivia, Chi  cuador, Peru and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED
REPUBLIC OF PE
By:           ,
(Authorized Representative)
............................
Name: CARLOS LINARES PERALOZA
Uirector Geneal
Title: Directibn General de Endedomiento y Tesoro P6blito
Date:    Apit_       __    __   __


