 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14647

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/17/2015

               Country: Peru
             Project ID: P090116                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Peru Rural                    Project Costs (US$M):                  114.33               118.10
                         Electrification
  L/C Number:            L7366                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                    50.00                 49.34
      Sector Board:      Energy and Mining             Cofinancing (US$M):                    10.00                  3.71

           Cofinanciers: GEF                             Board Approval Date :                               03/07/2006
                                                                 Closing Date:           12/31/2011          06/30/2013
          Sector(s):       Power (86%); Renewable energy (13%); General public administration sector (1%)
          Theme(s):        Rural services and infrastructure (50% - P); Regulation and competition policy (25% - S);
                           Infrastructure services for private sector development (25% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Dileep M. Wagle            Lauren Kelly            Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

PAD PDO: As per the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the objective of the project was to “increase access to
efficient and sustainable electricity services in rural areas of Peru”, through (a) investments in sub-projects to supply
electricity services to some 160,000 unserved rural households, schools and health clinics, and businesses and public
facilities; (b) a framework for electricity provision in rural areas that would attract investment from private and public
sector providers (including local governments); (c) a pilot program to increase productive uses of electricity so as to
increase opportunities for income generation in rural areas.

Loan Agreement Objective Statement : The objective as stated in the Loan Agreement was to "alleviate poverty in the
Borrower’s territory by increasing access to efficient and sustainable electricity services in rural areas" (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 2 Page 22).

GEF GEO: This is a blended GEF operation with a PDO and a GEO. The GEO aimed to achieve a reduction of
greenhouse gas emissions through use of renewable energy in rural areas for provision of electricity. As per IEG
practice, this assessment only rates the PDO but considers the environmental outcomes as they had intended to be
achieved as part of the overall assessment of this project (i.e. through the Micro-Hydro component).


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 Component 1 (US$ 114.325 million at appraisal; US$118.1 million actual). Investment in Rural Electrification
Sub-projects. The component was to provide targeted capital cost subsidies for part of the investment costs of rural
electrification sub-projects to be implemented by qualified electricity services providers, to extend services to about
160,000 newly connected rural households, businesses, health centers, schools and community centers (serving
some 800,000 people). These sub-projects would meet minimum criteria, including acceptable economic rate of
return, a minimum investment contribution by the distribution company, and an adequate rate of return to the
distribution company.

Component 2 (US$ 3.75 million at appraisal; US$3.03 million actual). Technical Assistance for Rural Electrification .
Technical assistance (TA) was to be provided to support: (a) development of institutional framework and regulations
for rural provision of electricity; (b) capacity building for demand-driven and decentralized identification, planning and
development of projects; (c) promotion of private sector development in rural electrification; and (d) renewable energy
promotion.

Component 3 (US$ 3.95 million at appraisal; US$2.8 million actual ). Pilot Program for Promotion of Productive Uses
of Electricity. This component supported removal of key barriers to productive uses of electricity - through capacity
building to identify target markets and segments, increase awareness and skills assist potential users and
communities identify opportunities, barriers and solutions, working with electricity service suppliers to ease access
and help increase consumption of rural electricity.

Component 4 (US$ 15.0 million at appraisal; $0.00 actual - component cancelled). Small Hydro Financing Facility .
Funds under this component were to be used to leverage private commercial financing for grid-connected small hydro
generating plants. The facility would provide “bridge-financing” for small hydro projects during the period of
construction and initial operation, after which the loans would be refinanced by commercial banks. This component
was cancelled for reasons related to a change in the Government of Peru's renewable energy policy that reportedly
made it unnecessary.

Component 5 (US$ 6.40 million at appraisal; US$7.74 million actual). Project Management. This component, which
supported the overall management of the project, consisted of three activities: a) Technical management of project
investment activities, b) Project administration, and c) Monitoring and Evaluation (including Safeguards).

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost:
Project costs at completion came in under budget, despite an extension in closing date by 18 months. This reflected
the fact that some outcomes and outputs were not fully achieved, and especially that Component 4 (Small Hydro
Financing Facility) was cancelled. As a result, some US$ 600,000 of IBRD funds and US$ 5 million from the GEF
Grant Agreement were cancelled in 2012, prior to project closing. Final project costs were US$ 131.69 million, just
over 90% of the US$ 144.55 million estimated at appraisal. The bulk of the shortfall took place in the GEF funding
(US$ 3.71 million utilized vs. US$ 10.00 originally allocated; and in funding provided by participating enterprises,
specifically distribution utilities (US$ 29.25 million vs. the US$ 33.0 million originally estimated).

Financing: The sources of funding for this project consisted of the World Bank (IBRD), which provided US$ 50.0
million, the Global Environmental Facility (GEF), which provided US$ 10.0 million, in addition to contributions from the
government and distribution utilities. (Actuals at closure were US$49.34 million and US$3.71 million, respectively).

Borrower contribution . The contribution from the Borrower was envisaged to be US$ 70.95 million – consisting of US$
47.85 million by the Government of Peru) and US$ 22.10 million from participating enterprises (distribution utilities).
Actuals at closure were US$49.39 million and US$29.25 million, respectively.

Dates. The project’s closing date was extended by a total of 18 months (on account of result of various delays in
implementation, relating to right-of-way payments and to the number of grid extension connections and installed
photovoltaic systems). Specifically, the project’s closing date was initially extended by 9 months from December 31,
2011 to September 30, 2012, and subsequently by another 9 months, from September 30, 2012 to June 30, 2013.
The GEF grant agreement was extended by 18 months, from December 31, 2011 to June 30, 2013.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Objectives: Substantial. The project’s objective was very relevant to the developmental objectives of Peru. The
project was well aligned with the objectives of decentralization and access to basic services, as set out in the Bank’s
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), 2004. It was also consistent with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)
for 2007-11, a key pillar of which had the specific goal of increasing access to electricity in rural areas from 30% to
65% (p.51), and the CPS for FY12-FY16, a key strategic objective of which was connecting the poor to services and
markets – especially through “improved coverage of reliable energy in rural areas” (p.22). The National Plan for Rural
Electrification for 2012-2021 estimated that rural electricity coverage reached 63% by end-2011. The project
development objective, as defined in the Legal Agreement, was overly-ambitious, however. The PAD objective
statement, on the other hand, was feasible and measurable. The Legal Agreement objective statement could have
included (but did not) a reference to the way whereby rural electricity provision could contribute to poverty alleviation,
rather than to fully alleviate it.


 b. Relevance of Design:
Design: High. The design of the project was fully consistent with the project’s objectives. Its major investment
component directly addressed the objective of increasing sustainable electricity access to a fairly large number of
rural consumers, making use of both grid and off-grid energy sources. It was supplemented by initiatives to develop
an institutional framework for provision of electricity services, a pilot program to encourage greater productive usage
of electricity during off-peak hours, and a financing facility to promote small hydro plants, all of which, though relatively
small in terms of funding commitment, had the potential to have a positive impact in terms of expanding renewable
energy sources and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.

The results framework adequately captured the linkage between the project’s activities and desired outcomes, with
intermediate outcomes constituting the requisite building blocks in the causal chain. These enabled efficiency and
sustainability to be tracked and measured through indicators relating to the establishment of renewable systems and
the use of electricity for productive uses in off-peak hours.

 The small hydro financing facility component, largely aligned to GEF objectives, did face difficulties in actual
implementation; but this was largely on account of a law passed by the government in 2008 to promote renewable
energy development, resulting in potential sponsors having access to conventional financing (hence not needing
bridge financing to a large extent), rather than to a specific design failure. The project's logical framework was
adequate although some shortcomings are observed in the specification of outcome indicators (including definition of
the term “connection”) – see Section 10a.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The objective as stated in the Loan Agreement was to "alleviate poverty in the Borrower’s territory by increasing
access to efficient and sustainable electricity services in rural areas. As pointed out in the Relevance of Objectives
section, this was an overly-ambitious objective and as such the relevance of objectives was downgraded to
Substantial by this ICR Review. While the PAD objective differed, it was well aligned with the overall aim in the loan
agreement of alleviating poverty. It sought to do this by increasing access to efficient and sustainable electricity
services in rural areas of Peru. The PAD objective statement specifically refers to providing these services to some
160,000 previously unserved rural households, schools, health clinics, etc. (serving about 800,000 people).

Outcomes: The key goal of increasing access to efficient and sustainable electricity in rural areas of Peru was
substantially achieved. The project was successful in bringing about a change in the model for delivering electricity to
rural areas, from an arrangement dependent on national government sources of financing to one that has increased
participation and investment from the private sector and local government sources. The project supported the
delivery of services through regular commercial operations within existing electricity distribution companies. The
project, for the first time, fully integrated renewable energy options into rural electricity services. A regulated tariff for
photovoltaic (PV) systems was introduced, ensuring that PV customers were eligible for the existing electricity
cross-subsidy.

By close of project, 105,045 electricity connections (of which 7100 served by renewable sub projects) to
households were made through sub-projects financed with electricity distribution companies outside concession
areas, constituting 66% of the target of 160,000 connections. This lower than anticipated connection rate is due to
higher than estimated costs per connection, that were a result of a change in the national electricity law that took
place during implementation. The Rural Electrification Law, passed in July, 2006, required that household connection
and meter costs should be rolled into capital costs rather than be paid by the household, which could account for
some of the project shortfall. Other targets were exceeded. The target of increasing electricity consumption for
productive uses of 18,000 MWh in the first five years - important from the perspective of ensuring long-term
sustainability of the program - was exceeded (19,107 MWh, or 106% of the project target).

While not rated, the parallel global environment objective, or reducing greenhouse gas emissions (measured by the
number of electricity connections using renewable energy and through reduction in tons of CO2 emissions) was not
achieved since the small hydro component was cancelled.

Outputs:
·         Investments by service providers in rural electrification outside concession areas: the target of US$ 23
million was exceeded (127%), as actuals reached US$ 29.75 million.
·         Issuance of norms, regulations and guidelines, and their adoption for all rural electrification projects: the
target for conventional systems was achieved to the extent of 75% and for renewable systems, of 100%.
·         Number of proposals approved for financing: the target of 67 proposals for non-GEF activities was 81%
achieved, with 54 proposals being approved.
·         Increase in number of enterprises adopting electricity-using equipment was more than achieved (235%),
actuals reaching 21,111 enterprises against the target of 9,000.
·         Increase in investment in electricity-using equipment was more than achieved (840%), actuals reaching US$
15.2 million against a target of US$ 1.81 million.

Taking into consideration all of the above, the project's efficacy is rated Substantial.

5. Efficiency:

Economic Rate of Return . Economic analysis at appraisal estimated the ERR, based on a willingness to pay
approach, at 23.8%. This was calculated on the basis of a sample of sub-projects meeting the relevant criteria. At
project close, for 90 percent of the investment (coverage) the project estimated that the investment produced an
economic rate of return of 21.3 percent and at a net present value of US$80.7 million, at a 10 percent discount rate
(using a similar willingness to pay approach). The estimate is based on fairly conservative assumptions, as the
benefits from the very successful productive uses component were only minimally incorporated. If additional
consumption of electricity associated with productive uses were more fully taken into account, the aggregate
economic return would be somewhat higher, making it more or less comparable to the ERR of 23.8%, that was
estimated at appraisal.

Cost Effectiveness . The project made a noticeable contribution to the government’s objective of expanding rural
electricity coverage in the country at relatively low cost compared to the overall public investment effort. During 2007
to 2012, rural electricity coverage improved from 30 percent to 63 percent - an increase of 33 percent, of which the
project accounted for 5.9 percentage points (= 105,045 new connections) or 18 percent of the overall outcome for a
cost equivalent to only 11 percent of the Government’s total investment in rural electrification (some US$ 898 million
in the same period), suggesting a highly efficient use of public investment resources.

Projects Costs. Project costs came in under budget, though to a large extent this reflected the cancellation of one
component (the small hydro financing facility). Loan disbursements amounted to 99.34% of the loan amount.

Taking these factors into account, the efficiency of the project is rated Substantial.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                      23.8%                                    100%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      21.3%                                    90%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The project’s objectives were substantially relevant and design was highly relevant. Efficiency was found to be
substantial. The project’s efficacy, taking into account the achievement of outcomes and the fact that all of the
intermediate indicator targets were achieved or exceeded, was rated as substantial on balance. Based on this, the
overall outcome is rated Satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   Technical: The sustainability of operations initiated under the project would appear to face relatively low risk,
looking ahead. The rural electrification sub-projects established used technically well-established technologies, and
would continue to be operated by the electricity distribution companies involved in their establishment, under the
supervision of the Supervisory Commission for Energy and Mining Investment. The electrical equipment installed
under the productive uses component was also in relatively common use, and easy to maintain.

Political: At appraisal, political risk - in the shape of possible change in political commitment to the project approach –
had been rated substantial. This risk did not materialize during the life of the project. Since a second Rural
Electrification Project was approved and becoming effective in July, 2011, the commitment of the Ministry of Energy
and Mines can be assumed to remain relatively strong for the foreseeable future.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Project design was based on innovative approaches to rural electrification, taking into account the Bank’s
experience of similar projects in other countries in the region and elsewhere. “As highlighted by the PAD (p.8), the
design of the project was informed by the Bank’s extensive experience in rural electrification in such countries as
Chile, Ecuador, El Salvador (where subsidy-based models had been used), Bangladesh (where a productive uses
component had been tried out), Argentina, Bolivia, Laos, Philippines and Vietnam. Key lessons were incorporated
into the project’s design; e.g. that preparation should include detailed estimate of financial viability of projects and
amounts of subsidy required, in addition to analysis of benefits, selection of sub-projects to be financed should to
be based on simple, transparent methodology, and that the criteria for allocation of subsidies should be
technology neutral and needed to assure that least-cost technology, including renewable energy, would be used
where most viable technically and economically.” Criteria for selection of subprojects were clearly specified in the
PAD (and continue to be used for the Second Rural Electrification that is currently on-going). The project was
implemented essentially as designed, despite the need to cancel the Small Hydro Facility and the difficulty in
reaching the target for the electricity connections indicator, both of which were affected to some extent by
exogenous factors that could not be anticipated at the design stage.

Monitoring and evaluation arrangements were adequate to measure the project objectives as articulated in the
PAD. Some shortcomings were however observed in the specification of outcome indicators (including definition
of the term “connection”) – see Section 10a. During the Mid-Term Review the Bank recommended that targets for
the electricity connections indicator be adjusted downwards, which the Government was however reluctant to
consider. Arrangements for implementing safeguards requirements were found to be less than satisfactory, even
with an extended closing date.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The project team supervised the project fairly diligently, maintaining a regular dialogue with the Government.
The ICR reports (p.20) that, according to interviews with the implementing agencies, the technical advice provided
by the Bank team was generally well received. The team was proactive in carrying out extension to the project so
as to adjust implementation arrangements to changing circumstances. Overall, financial management
arrangements were satisfactory. There were however some shortcomings observed with respect to
implementation of the Rights of Way payments by distribution companies, which led to safeguards problems, and
with the reallocation of funds for the Small Hydro Facility, when it was cancelled.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government’s ownership and commitment to the project was strong. The project received adequate
support from the counterpart Ministry of Economy and Finance and from the Directorate of Investment Policy, with
budget allocations being provided in timely fashion. Budget allocations were adequate and timely. Public
investment procedures for approval of sub-projects were initially cumbersome, but were subsequently streamlined.

   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The implementing agency was the Ministry of Energy and Mines, operating initially through the Project
Executing Unit, and subsequently through the Directorate General of Rural Electrification. The project was
implemented efficiently through much of its life, until about it approached closure, when problems emerged in
some grid-connected and photovoltaic projects. These issues were eventually resolved, except for right-of-way
payments for three sub-projects, which were resolved soon after closure. Project implementation problems could
be traced to some extent to capacity shortfalls; in particular to resignations of some key staff in 2009 and delays in
their replacement (including the project director). As mentioned earlier, this led to the supervision of some
safeguards aspects being compromised to a degree.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   Monitoring indicators and targets were for the most part adequate to measure the achievement of the project’s
developmental objectives, as defined by the PAD. The number of outcome and output indicators was limited, and the
latter constituted reasonable building blocks to determination of the former. Indicators were mostly specified in
sufficient detail to facilitate their measurement, though – on the key indicator of electricity connections – there was
some difference of opinion on whether these targets had to be met during the project’s implementation period or
during a more extended time frame (given that the total capacity of connections installed had a lifetime of 20 years,
and not all connections would be made during the initial construction of the sub-projects – ICR, p.9). Interestingly, this
issue was addressed during design of the second Rural Electrification project.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The Directorate of Competitive Funding provided a monitoring team that maintained accurate measures of project
indicators. The team also conducted appraisals of sub-projects, identifying benefits of electrification as perceived by
households, as well as supply and other constraints. As agreed, the Directorate supplied the Bank with regular
progress reports on results indicators and surveys of beneficiaries.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   Utilization of data collected was satisfactory. In addition to data on indicators, the monitoring team was able to
provide additional information useful for analyzing project impact (e.g. data bases of project beneficiaries, and their
electricity consumption patterns).

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was rated as Category B for environmental and social aspects. Environmental impacts were expected to
be minimal, given the type of interventions planned under the project. However, as mentioned in the PAD, the project
triggered several safeguards policies, including: (a) Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01; Indigenous Peoples
(OP 4.20, which was being revised as OP 4.10; Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12); and Safety of Dams (OP/BP
4.37) – which was not applied, since the Small Hydro Financing Facility component was cancelled. Environmental and
social screening was required and undertaken for all sub-projects prior to approval, and appropriate management
plans prepared and implemented as per guidelines. All rural electrification projects were screened for the presence of
indigenous peoples, and mitigation plans applied where necessary. Involuntary Resettlement was applied with
respect to two families, and these cases were certified by the Bank specialist as having been handled appropriately.
Most distribution companies complied with payment required for right of way; however two companies were late in
completing these payments for various reasons; and the problems could be resolved only after closure of the project.


 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement and financial management of the project was noted by the Closing ISR as satisfactory. The ICR notes
that overall financial management arrangements were satisfactory. The project consistently provided timely and
reliable financial information. The Directorate of Competitive Funding was responsible for procurement, in
coordination with the electricity companies, in the case of the rural electrification sub-projects. Procurement issues
were handled in a satisfactory manner overall; the procurement plan being implemented each year as defined.

Procurement and financial management of the project was noted by closing ISR as satisfactory. The ICR notes that
the project complied with most of its fiduciary covenants during implementation. Adequate records and accounts were
maintained and interim unaudited financial reports furnished on a timely basis. However, the Government did not call
regular meetings of the Policy Steering Committee and the Project Advisory Committee, especially towards the end of
the project, for which reason fiduciary compliance was rated as Moderately Satisfactory.


 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
Gender. The implementation approach, while not deliberately designed with gender in mind, was effective in reaching
women producers. In the productive uses promotion activity, 30 percent of the beneficiaries were women nationwide,
while in the rural highlands (Cuzco, Puno and Ancash) this figure reached 50 percent. Women entrepreneurs were
represented in a broad range of productive activities and play a significant role in areas of production such as baked
goods, milk production, ceramics, and textiles.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Satisfactory        The ICR used the cumulative rating
                               Satisfactory                                     categories incorrectly in reaching a final
                                                                                rating in their ICR. The IEG rating
                                                                                reflects the achievement against the
                                                                                harmonized guidelines.

          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 Lessons from the ICR, adapted by IEG:

(1) In rural electrification projects , seeking the active engagement of distribution companies from the early stages
of program design is essential for gaining ownership , adequate financing and for overall effective design . The
project sought to involve the distribution companies from the early stages of the design of the grid-extension
sub-projects and this approach proved generally successful in achieving its objective. Also, the incorporation of
photo-voltaic systems into the regulatory framework of the power sector coupled with guaranteed subsidies to
distribution companies provided for an effective roll-out of investments in this sector.

(2) In rural electrification projects , terms like "Connections," "Sustainability" and "efficiency" need to be
adequately defined, agreed upon, and measured. In the project, the definition of the term “connections” lacked
some precision at the time of preparation, and the values of some indicators needed to be adjusted.

(3) Achieving Productive Uses of Electricity is not only a highly beneficial component of a Rural Electrification
project, especially in middle income countries with a critical mass of entrepreneurs, but can be key to achieving long
term development impacts from an R.E. program.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is well-written, concise and generally consistent with guidelines, though it does incorrectly apply different
rating categories to the project achievement. This resulted in a lower rating than when the project is measured using
the harmonized guidelines for ICRs. The quality of analysis and evidence is results-driven and satisfactory overall.
The assessment of the project's efficiency should however have taken greater account of the delays in
implementation, which resulted in an 18-month extension of closing date.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
