Report No. 947a-EC
Ecuador: Appraisal of a                                               FILE COPY
Second Guayaquil Port Project
April 20, 1976
Latin America and Caribbean Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                          - Ecuadorean Sucre (S)
US$1                                   -  25 Ecuadorean Sucres
Us$.o4                                 -  1 Ecuadorean Sucre
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric                                 British/US
1 kilometer (km)                       - 0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)                            -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 hectare (ha)                         - 2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton                           - 29205 lb
Abbreviations and Acronyms
DIMERC                                 -  Directorate of Merchant Marine
DIRDEM                                 - General Directorate of Maritime
Development
DWT                                    -  Deadweight tons
ENFE                                   -  Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles
del Estado
FONADE                                 - Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo
GPA                                    - Guayaquil Port Authority
JUNTAPIAN                              -  Junta Nacional de Planificaci6n
LIBOR                                  -  London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
SICAP                                  -  Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitacion
Profesional



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SuMMKARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................    i-ii
1.   INTRODUCTION .............................1.......... 
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...............................            2
A.   General ................       .......................     2
B.   The Transport Modes ......      ................           2
C.   Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination  ...           4
3.   PORT ORGANIZATION, FACILITIES AND OPERATIONS  .......           4
A. Organization.....                                            4
B.   The Guayaquil Port Authority                .     .6
C. Port Facilities                      .          .7
D.  Engineering and Maintenance .               .               7
E. Operations. .                                                8
4.   THE PROJECT  ...............                                   11
A. Objectives                  ....11
B. Description                      .... 11
C. Cost Estimates                ....13
D. Project Execution              ... .13
E. Project Financing              . . .14
F. Procurement                       ...                       15
G.   Disbursements .... .          . .......................    15
H. Ecology                   ....15
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION    ..15
A.  General             .....................  15
B. Traffic Forecasts   .                  .16
C. Economic Analysis .17
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. Jones and Aguirre (financial
analysts/economists), Veniard (economist), Vinekar (engineer), Mosse (financial
analyst), and Scheiner (engineer/consultant) and has been edited by Miss Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
6.   FINANCES ............. , ....................                19
A.   Accounting, Audit, Budgets and Insurance                19
B. Past Finances .20
C. Tariffs .20
D.   Future Finances ...                                     21
7.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   .        .23
TABLES
1.   Cost Estimates
2.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
3.   Results of Economic Evaluation
4.   Balance Sheets as of 12/31 - 1972/1930
5.   Guayaquil Port Authority Income Statements - 1972-1980
6.   Cash Flow Forecast 1975-1980
AINNEXES
1.   Organization Chart - Guayaquil Port Authority
2.   Existing Facilities
3.   Potential for Cargo Unitization in Ecuador
4.   Technical Assistance Prcgram
5.   Project Description
6.   Transit Shed and Open Storage Area Requirements
7.   Project Execution Schedule
8.   Traffic Forecast
9.   Economic Analysis
10.   Tariffs
11.   GPA Financial Forecasts
vAP S
IBRD 11413R Transport Netwiork
IBRD 11709 General Port Layout
IBRD 11710 1972 Highway Traffic Flow



ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Guayaquil is Ecuador's leading general cargo port; in 1974, it
handled some 80% of Ecuador's general cargo imports and exports, excluding
bananas. Traffic at Guayaquil has grown rapidly since 1972 in response
to the country's recently accelerated rate of economic growth. In view of
the continuing trend of traffic growth, the failure to provide additional
port facilities at Guayaquil, the country's major port and principal com-
mercial and industrial center, could act as a bottleneck to the country's
development. The proposed project for Guayaquil port is therefore of high
priority.
ii.       The project consists of the required dredging and construction
of three deepwater berths for general cargo and containers, three transit
sheds, a container shed and workshop and maintenance facilities; the construc-
tion of a bulk terminal comprising a bulk pier, mechanized loading and unload-
ing facilities and storage for sugar, wheat, molasses and edible oil; the
procurement of cargo-handling equipment; consultant services for construction
supervision and technical assistance to improve port operations, to set up a
program for training port workers and to manage the bulk terminal for the first
two years of operation. The estimated cost of the project is US$83.6 million,
of which US$56.7 million is the estimated foreign exchange component. The
proposed Bank loan would finance US$33.5 million of the foreign cost, and
the financing of the balance will be provided by the Government of Ecuador
and the Guayaquil Port Authority (GPA). Retroactive financing of foreign
expenditure up to US$180,000, incurred on engineering services after January 1,
1976, would be provided in the Bank loan.
iii.      In 1958, the Government established GPA in connection with the proj-
ect for construction of the existing facilities at Guayaquil, which were fi-
nanced in part by Bank Loan 212-EC. GPA was autonomous and functioned well
until 1968-1969, when it encountered financial problems as a result of a large
increase in expenses (principally personnel costs). Subsequently, the Govern-
ment decided to reorganize port administration in Ecuador, and, in 1970, it
established a rather hierarchical port organizational structure. GPA's auto-
nomy was reduced, and it has been unable to recruit qualified staff, which has
had a serious adverse effect on its management and operational efficiency.
Moreover, decision-making has been slowed by the multi-tiered administrative
system.
iv.       A program of proposed changes to improve the institutional organiza-
tion of the ports subsector was discussed with the Government. Legislation
has been enacted which will restore an appropriate degree of autonomy to GPA.
v.        GPA lacks experienced management Personnel.  Ship discharge and
loading operations are not properly planned, labor gangs and equipment are



- ii -
not assigned, and shed and open storage areas are not utilized systematically.
Low cargo storage charges and complicated, time-consuming cargo clearance
procedures caused serious congestion of the transit sheds, warehouses and
open storage areas; this, in turn, hindered cargo-handling operations and
increased ship delays. Earlier in 1975, three of the principal shipping con-
ferences imposed surcharges on import cargo. Additionally, the cost to the
economy of the cargo remaining in the port was high, and the long delays in
clearing cargo from the port greatly increased losses from damage and pilferage.
A program of urgent measures to reduce cargo congestion and increase port
operating efficiency was sent to the Government and to GPA in July. A Bank
mission to review progress in reducing congestion visited Guayaquil in
November and found that sufficient progress (including the elimination of two
shipping conference surcharges and :he expected elimination of the other one)
had been achieved. Further measures to assure additional operating improve-
ments and to permit the retention of qualified staff to manage the port and
carry out the project were agreed during negotiations.
vi.       Port traffic in Guayaquil port is expected to increase from 1.8
million tons to about 3.3 million tons between 1974 and 1985, including a
significant increase in container traffic.  The proposed project would provide
capacity for general cargo traffic until about 1985. It would also provide
for bulk cargo (principally grain imports and sugar and molasses exports),
which is presently handled at private river installations where draft
limitations restrict the size of ships in which these commodities are trans-
ported. The new bulk pier included in the project will accommodate ships of
up to 30,000 dwt with consequent savings in transport costs.
vii.      Taking into account only quantifiable direct benefits that are going
to be obtained by the Ecuadorean economy, the economic return for the bulk pier
is 12%, for the three general cargo berths, 16%, and for the project as a whole,
14%. Benefits that are going to be retained in the first instance by foreign
interests have been excluded from the above estimates. To the extent that
these benefits could be recovered by Ecuador through higher charges to ship-
ping, the project could increase its economic return to a maximum of 21%.
viii.      The financial position of GPA is strong, and its earning perform-
ance in recent years has been good. A recently approved increase in port
charges of about 20% at Guayaquil, which became effective January 1, 1976,
will enable GPA to finance the local project costs, estimated to be about
US$26.9 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component of the project
(estimated to be US$56.7 million) would be financed partly by the proposed
Bank loan of US$33.5 million, partly by the Government (US$20.0 million) and
the balance by GPA's internal cash generation. The Government and GPA are
negotiating with a private bank for aL US$10 million loan, and, if these nego-
tiations are satisfactorily completed, the Government's contribution would be
reduced to US$10 million.
ix.        The project would provide a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$33.5
million for 24 years, including a grace period of four years.



ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Republic of Ecuador has requested the Bank to assist the
Guayaquil Port Authority (GPA) in financing the expansion of its port
facilities. The existing port facilities were completed in 1963 and were
partially financed by Bank Loan 212-EC; the port has operated successfully
since its inauguration. The existing facilities have reached saturation,
and additional berths must be constructed to handle forecast traffic. A
feasibility study for the expansion project was completed in August 1974 for
GPA by its consultants, Messrs. Palmer and Baker (USA). A supplementary
report, containing certain revisions, was prepared in January 1975.
1.02      The scope of the project, as presented in the supplementary report,
was substantially increased beyond that discussed with a Bank preappraisal
mission in October 1974; it included three multipurpose berths (with an
option for a fourth), three general cargo berths, a bulk terminal comprising
storage facilities and two bulk piers, equipment and consultant services. The
supplementary report provided no justification for the enlarged project, and,
during the appraisal mission, agreement was reached among GPA, its consultants
and the mission to reduce the project scope to include three berths (with an
option for a fourth) for general cargo, containers and bananas; a bulk cargo
terminal with one bulk pier; equipment and consultant services. This decision
is supported by the economic analysis of project size (paras. 5.15 and 5.16).
The estimated project cost is US$83.6 million equivalent with a foreign ex-
change component of US$56.7 million.
1.03      The proposed loan of US$33.5 million would finance 59% of the
foreign exchange cost estimated at US$56.7 million. The balance would be
financed partly by loans from the Government (US$20 million) and partly by
GPA's own resources. The Government and GPA are negotiating with a private
bank for a US$10 million loan, and,if these negotiations are satisfactorily
completed, the Government's contribution would be reduced to US$10 million.
1.04      To date, the Bank has made five loans and one credit to Ecuador
in the transportation sector: one for ports in 1958; three loans and one
credit for highways in 1954, 1957 and 1964 (in a consortium lending with
USAID and IDB); and one for railways in 1957. The Bank's experience on
these loans has been mixed; while the port project and the first two highway
projects were efficiently implemented, the loan for the railways was cancelled,
and, in the case of the consortium project, although the complexity of a four-
agency participation led to some initial delays, progress improved, and the
project was generally satisfactory.
1.05      This report is based on the consultants' reports (para 1.01) and the
findings of a preappraisal mission by Mr. J. Veniard (economist) in March 1975,
an appraisal mission composed of Messrs. H. A. Jones (financial analyst/econo-
mist), U. Aguirre (financial analyst/economist) and R. Y. Scheiner (engineer/



- 2 -
consultant) in May 1975, and an appraisal updating mission composed of
Messrs. Jones, Veniard, Vinekar (engineer), Mosse (financial analyst), and
Scheiner in November 1975. The report has been edited by Miss V. Foster.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
2
2.01      Ecuador has an area of 271,000 km .  Its geographical configuration
has been a determining factor in the location of its population and economic
activities, as well as in the development of its transport network (Map IBRD
11413R). Two principal mountain chains, the western and eastern ranges of the
Andes, run from north to south and divide the country into three natural and
distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa), the mountain region (Sierra)
and the Amazon region (Oriente). Transport among these three regions is
difficult, particularly access to the Oriente.
2.02      The principal land transport flows (Map IBRD 11710) are to be found
(a) in the two corridors which extend from the Colombian border in the north
to the Peruvian border in the south - one following the Central Valley of the
Andean chains and servicing the capital, Quito, and the other following the
Costa, from Esmeraldas, the chief port in the north, through Guayaquil, the
country's major port, to Puerto Bolivar in the south; (b) in the most important
corridor of the country, between Quito and Guayaquil; (c) between the Oriente
region and Esmeraldas - mainly crude oil transported by pipeline; and (d) in
the environs of the major urban areas.
B.   The Transport Modes
(i) Highways
2.03      The highway network increased by 50% between 1963 and 1973,
reaching 22,000 km, and the percentage of paved roads increased significantly,
especially in the last three years. In spite of the expansion and improve-
ments, the condition of the main netwqork is not adequate for the existing
traffic.
2.04      Approximately 80% of the freight, and most of the passengers, in
Ecuador are transported by road. The vehicle fleet more than doubled
between 1966 and 1973, reaching above 90,000 vehicles, more than 62% of
which are registered in the provinces of Guayas and Pichincha (Guayaquil
and Quito).
(ii) Pipelines
2.05      A pipeline for refined petroleum products extends from Duran, close
to Guayaquil, to Quito (358 km), and a crude oil pipeline extends from Lago
Agrio, in the Oriente, to the Port of Balao, in Esmeraldas (503 km). Smaller



- 3 -
feeder lines connect these pipelines to the oilfields, such as the Lago Agrio
to Shushufindi (16 km) and to Sacha (52 km).
(iii) Aviation
2.06      Thirteen airports are served by scheduled services; two of these
airports - Quito and Guayaquil - are also served by international carriers.
(iv) Railroads
2.07      The Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles del Estado (ENFE), the
national railway, operates 971 km of track consisting of three lines: the
Guayaquil (Duran)-Quito line (452 km); the Sibambe-Cuenca branch (146 km);
and the Quito-San Lorenzo line (373 km). Railway traffic has been steadily
declining due to highway competition and deterioration of service; freight
traffic declined from 82 million to 62 million ton-km between 1966 and 1973
and from 77 million to 69 million pass-km.
(v) Ports
2.08      Ecuador's ports handle 98% of its external trade.  Port traffic
(excluding petroleum products) increased from 2.15 million tons in 1969
to 2.94 million tons in 1974, as shown for the four major ports below:
(Thousand tons)
Guayaquil   Manta   Puerto Bolivar   Esmeraldas   Total
Exports       802        61           683             172      1,718
Imports       994       171            59               2      1,226
1,796      232           742             174       2,944
2.09      Guayaquil has five deepwater alongside berths and private wharves
and river moorings on the Guayas river; Manta has four berths for ocean-
going ships; and Puerto Bolivar has a two-berth finger pier (an additional
two berths are currently under construction). Esmeraldas, where new facili-
ties for ocean-going vessels are being built, is at present operated mainly
as a lighterage port. There are also two minor ports, San Lorenzo and Bahia
de Caraquez, with limited facilities and negligible traffic.
2.10      The other important port facilities are two oil terminals:  one
at Balao, near Esmeraldas, which is the export terminal for crude oil from
the Oriente oil fields; and one at La Libertad, which receives crude oil
for the two refineries on the Santa Elena peninsula (near Salinas) and
some export products. There are also fishing ports at Manta and Posorja
capable of handling ocean-going trawlers.



C.   Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
2.11      Five ministries and the National Planning Board (JUNTAPLAN) currently
share authority in matters of transiport policy in the country, with the addi-
tional intervention of provincial governments at the local level. Although
JUNTAPLAN attempted the formulation of national policies (for its National
Development Plan of 1973-1977), the effective policy-making has remained for
the most part a prerogative of the -- often competing -- agencies indicated,
which carried out their policies separately with little or no control and
coordination by JUNTAPLAN.
2.12      With regard to planning, :Ln 1974, the Bank carried out a survey of
the transportation sector.  A number of deficiencies were identified during
the study. For example, no one Government agency is responsible for overall
planning in the transport sector; sectoral statistics are not collected, pro-
cessed or retrieved centrally; there is no coherent pricing policy for the
sector as a whole, which leads to an extremely variable performance in the
individual modes; the preparation of transportation projects at the planning
stage and at the level of pre-investment studies is slow, and the quality of
the results is generally not good enough to meet the standards necessary to
attract external financing; and the essential issues of intermodal planning
for meeting the long-term demand for transport are not being adequately
addressed.
2.13      Since the deficiencies more directly and immediately affect land
transport, this matter was discussed during the negotiations for the fourth
highway project in December 1975. It was agreed, as a condition of the loan
for that project, that an appropriate and adequately staffed agency would be
set up for land transport planning and coordination within one year after
the date of the loan agreement and that an appropriate unit for transport
sector planning and coordinating all modes of transport with such organiza-
tion would be established not later than two years after the date of the
loan agreement.
3. PORT ORGANIZATION, FACILITIES AND OPERATIONS
A.   Organization
(i) Background
3.01      In 1958, the Government established the Guayaquil Port Authority
(GPA) in connection with the project for the construction of the existing port
facilities at Guayaquil, which were financed in part by Bank Loan 212-EC.
The Port Authority was autonomous, with powers to fix and collect port
charges; to control ship movements, navigational aids and port maintenance;
and to appoint and dismiss members of its staff and fix salaries. Its board
of directors consisted of a chairman appointed by the President of the
Republic, three representatives of the Government and three representatives
of business and local interests. Day-to-day operations were in the hands of
a General Manager.



- 5 -
3.02      This administrative organization worked well for a number of years.
However, GPA encountered financial problems in 1968-1969 as a result of a
60% increase in expenses (principally personnel costs). Subsequently, the
Government decided to reorganize port administration in Ecuador. In 1970,
a new law was passed, establishing a complex and rather hierarchical
organizational structure with four levels:
Ministry of Defense
National Ports Council
Directorate of Merchant Marine (DIMERC)
National Ports Department
Another organization, the General Directorate of Maritime Development (DIRDEK),
was established in 1973 and put in charge of maritime development activities.
3.03      The National Ports Council consists of the Minister of Defense as
Chairman; four representatives of the Navy (one non-voting); a representative
of JUNTAPLAN; and one representative of each of the following four Ministries:
Foreign Relations; Finance; Public Works; and Industries, Commerce and
Integration. The Council establishes national port policy, approves port
tariffs, decides on the establishment of new ports, approves the contracting
of port studies and approves the budgets of the various port authorities.
3.04      In the existing port organization, DIMERC carries out the port
policy established by the National Ports Council. Its principal powers
are to:
(a) make recommendations to the Ministry of Defense concerning
private ports;
(b) approve regulations covering the provision of port services,
organizational manuals, personnel lists and internal by-laws
of the port authorities;
(c) study improvements in organizational, administrative and
operational systems in the ports and require the Port
Authorities to carry out the recommendations; and
(d) approve all port construction projects and any expenditure
over 5% of a port's annual budget (despite their previous
review of the Port Authority budgets).
The National Ports Department is the technical arm of DIMERC.
3.05      The autonomy of GPA was correspondingly weakened. I/  The number of
representatives of port users on GPA's Board was reduced from three to one,
and GPA's authority over the financial matters affecting it (tariffs, pay
1/   There are separate Port Authorities operating the ports of Bolivar,
Esmeraldas and Manta.



- f6 -
levels, budget expenditures) was considerably reduced. As a result, GPA has
been unable to recruit qualified staff, which has had serious adverse effects
on its management and operational efficiency. GPA has reacted slowly to its
recent problems created by rapid traffic growth (congestion, increased cargo
damage and pilferage). Decision-making has generally been slowed by the red
tape resulting from the multi-tiered administrative system.
3.06      DIMERC has been trying to improve port operations and to reduce
port congestion, but its staff does not have long-term experience in the
management of port operations. On the other hand, GPA's management has not
been given an active part in these efforts.
(ii) Recent Improvement
3.07      During appraisal, the above deficiencies in port administration
were discussed with the Government and the Government enacted new port legis-
lation which will (a) eliminate two Levels (the Ministry of Defense and the
National Ports Department) from the organizational structure; (b) limit DIMERC's
powers regarding improvements in organizational, administrative and operational
systems to their study only (formerly, the Port Authorities were required to
carry out the recommendations of such studies); (c) eliminate the requirement
that DIMERC approve all expenditures over 5% of a port's annual budget; (d)
increase the number of user representatives on GPA's Board from one to two;
(e) spell out the qualifications of CPA's General Manager and (f) restore to
the Port Authorities the power to enatct certain operating regulations and to
conduct studies for the improvement cif their operations.
3.08      This legislation provides an acceptable institutional framework
upon which an efficient port administration could be built in Guayaquil.
B. The Guayaquil Port Authority (GP A)
3.09      As a result of the changes made since July, GPA now has a Board of
seven Directors: a member appointed by the President of the Republic from a
list proposed by the National Ports Council; the Port Captain; a member desig-
nated by the Minister of Finance; a member designated by the Minister of
Industry and Commerce; a member designated by the Minister of Public Works
and two members representing port users. A General Manager, selected by the
National Ports Council, is responsible for day-to-day operations. GPA's or-
ganizational structure (Annex 1), which consists of four departments (Opera-
tions, Engineering and Maintenance, Finance and Administration) is basically
sound; however, the limitations on its ability to pay salaries which would
enable it to recruit and retain qualified staff have lowered the quality of
its management and its capacity to deal with the recent problems created by
rapid traffic growth. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that it will take all action as required to enable GPA to estab-
lish salaries and fringe benefits consistent with GPA's need to employ quali-
fied staff for top and middle management posts.



-7-
C.   Port Facilities
(i) GPA
3.10      From the time of the Spanish conquest, Ecuador's only commercial
port of any importance was the port of Guayaquil, situated some 80 km from
the sea on the Guayas River. Because of increasing ship sizes and drafts,
new facilities (the Puerto Maritimo) were constructed in 1963 on the Estero
Salado estuary, some 4 km south of the City of Guayaquil. The port's present
location, although still 77 km from the sea, eliminates maneuvering difficul-
ties and enables ships with lengths of 175 m and drafts of 9.25 m to use the
port at MLW.  The tidal range varies from 2.8 m to 4 m.  There are no sig-
nificant wind or current problems.
3.11      The Puerto Maritimo facilities (Annex 2) were completed in early
1963 at a total cost of US$20.0 million, financed partially by Bank Loan
212-EC. The port consists of five marginal berths, each 185 m long with an
alongside depth of 9.25 m at MLW.  The wharves are of concrete construction
supported by pre-stressed concrete piles.  All berths have transit sheds,
but their 12 m wide aprons are now found to be too narrow for efficient port
operations, principally because of changing ship and cargo-handling technology.
One berth serves as a banana-loading and heavy lift berth-a fixed 75-ton der-
rick crane is mounted tbere. The port's present u2able storage area, in5luding
transit sheds (32,000 m ) and warehouses (15,000 m ), is about 120,000 m . The
existing facilities are generally in good condition.
(ii) Private Wharves and River Moorings
3.12      Some 70 private wharves and river moorings are in use on the Guayas
River and in the estuaries surrounding Guayaquil; the more important are
two terminals for the import of grains and separate piers for fertilizer,
paper, sugar and petroleum, including the terminal at Duran, which is the
beginning of the product pipeline to Quito. Vessel sizes serving these termi-
nals are restricted by the draft limitations of the Guayas River (7 m at MLW).
D.   Engineering and Maintenance (GPA)
3.13      Responsibility for general maintenance, including dredging, is
vested in GPA's Engineering and Maintenance Department, which has divisions
for planning, hydrography, maintenance and dredging (Annex 1). The level of
maintenance of the civil structures is generally satisfactory, with the excep-
tion of the fender piles, which need substantial repairs. The Engineering
and Maintenance Department has performed no major marine construction for the
past 12 years and, therefore, could fulfill only secondary functions during
the execution of the project. Most of the construction supervision will be
done by consulting engineers, whose contract includes training of GPA staff
on the construction site.
3.14      Maintenance of cargo-handling equipment (Annex 2) is very poor.
The advanced age of most of the equipment, in addition to the lack of spare
parts, reduces the average equipment availability to some 60-65X. Port



- 8 -
operating systems must be reviewed in order to improve port operating effi-
ciency. During negotiations, GPA agreed to employ port operations experts
by the end of 1976 for advising port management on day-to-day operations and
for on-the-job training of staff in the Operating Department. Although the
services of these experts will be financed by the United Nations technical
assistance program, GPA agreed that the qualifications and experience of these
experts and their terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank. The
above measures, together with the proposed establishment of a training program
for port laborers, stevedores and equipment operators (para. 4.09), should
also improve equipment availability.
3.15      The port owns a second-hand, 600 m3 hopper suction dredger acquired
from Italy in 1973. It is capable of dredging to a depth of 13.8 m and has
been successfully maintaining the access channel to the Puerto Maritimo at
9.25 m at MLW. The port's floating craft work efficiently in spite of their
age.
E.   Operations
(i) General
3.16      The lack of adequate management staff is especially pronounced in
the Operations Department of GPA. Proper planning of ship loading and dis-
charge operations and of gang and equipment assignments is not carried out,
and, until recently, the utilization of shed and open storage areas was not
organized in any systematic way. Moreover, until mid-1975, when emergency
measures were instituted, efficient cargo handling was made very difficult
by the serious congestion of the transit sheds, warehouses and open storage
areas. This congestion was caused by low cargo storage charges and compli-
cated and time-consuming cargo clearance procedures, imposed principally by
the customs authority and by the banks which finance imports; these banks
are regulated by the Central Bank of Ecuador. Cargo remaining in the port
reached an estimated 80,000 tons, anci the long delays in clearing cargo from
the port greatly increased losses from damage and pilferage, estimated at
5-10% of the value of imports. Moreover, the cargo congestion, together with
rapid traffic growth, increased ship waiting time to the point where three of
the principal shipping conferences had already, in early 1975, imposed sur-
charges of up to US$6 a ton on import: cargo, and optional surcharges of US$3
a ton on export cargo. Although two of the conferences have since withdrawn
them, the threat of imposition of surcharges is always present.
3.17      Between June and the beginning of November 1975, GPA and the Govern-
ment took a number of measures to recluce the congestion in Guayaquil port, in-
cluding, inter alia, increasing storage rates, extending the customs guarantee
system, streamlining some customs procedures and providing additional storage
areas.
3.18      The above measures resulted in a reduction in cargo clearance time
from 45 days to an estimated 18 days, the removal of two shipping conferences'
surcharges and the expected removal cf the third, and a significant reduction
in carRo congestion in the port. During negotiations, it was agreed that the



following measures will be taken in order to further improve port operating
efficiency and to prevent and reduce congestion at the Port of Guayaquil in
the future:
(a)  The Government will maintain the system of customs guarantee,
whereby, whenever the port becomes congested, goods may be
removed from the port area by obtaining a bank guarantee of
payment of the estimated customs duties to be levied thereon;
(b)  The Government will take steps to simplify customs procedures
and instruct the customs authorities in Guayaquil port to make
use of their power to auction goods remaining in the port for
more than 90 days;
(c)  The Government will permit GPA to further revise storage dues
as follows:
(i) reduce the free storage period from ten to seven days;
(ii) charge storage tariffs on a daily basis; and
(iii) maintain rates sufficiently above commercial warehousing
rates to encourage users to remove goods promptly.
(d) GPA will, by the end of 1976, engage port operations experts,
as outlined in paragraph 3.14.
(ii) Cargo Handling
3.19      The port works three shifts around the clock seven days a week and
360 days a year. During 1974, the port handled some 1.25 million tons over
its five berths. Allowing for the fact that one berth was permanently
occupied by banana ships which loaded some 450,000 tons during 1974, the
average amount of general cargo handled per berth was 200,000 tons/year.
This throughput reflects the high occupancy rate of the berths during the
year (85%), which, in turn, indicates the present delays to shipping.
3.20      Handling rates for general cargo in 1974 averaged 36 weight tons
per ship working hour, or about 11 tons per gang hour based on the average
3-1/4 hatches worked. In view of the principal types of cargo handled
(machinery, steel, bagged cargo), these handling rates could be improved.
If the measures described in paragraphs 3.24 and 3.25 are taken (greater
unitization of cargo and similar basis for compensation), cargo handling
should improve by 15-20% by 1980.
3.21      Bananas are loaded manually from trucks at an average of about 60
tons per ship working hour so that the average banana ship is loaded in 24
hours. Banana loading across the wharf is supplemented at times by loading
from barges. However, since some 400 of the best organized and highest paid
workers are engaged in banana loading, GPA and the Government foresee serious



- 10 -
labor opposition to any effort to change the existing system. For these
reasons, the establishment of mechanized banana loading is not expected in
the foreseeable future. Containerization of banana traffic is also not
likely, mainly because strong labor opposition would discourage the shipping
lines from making the large investments required for refrigerated containers.
(iii) Operations of the Proposed Bulk Terminal
3.22      Most of Ecuador's bulk imports and exports are handled efficiently
by the private sector at private piers, but in relatively small ships due
to draft limitations at their installations. The Government has, for the
last few years, rejected all proposals from the private sector to expand its
facilities. The present port project includes the construction of a bulk
terminal to handle wheat, sugar, mola,sses and edible oils. The private
interests doubt that GPA would be able to operate a bulk terminal efficiently
and fear that the Government would eventually force them to use the new bulk
terminal, whatever its operating capability.
3.23      Additional facilities for bulk cargo are needed, and a multi-
purpose bulk terminal is the most economical solution, provided it is operated
with the high degree of skill and experience required for such a specialized
installation. To assure the efficient operation of the proposed bulk terminal,
the Bank and GPA discussed three possible alternatives: (a) GPA would build
and own the terminal, which would be operated initially by a team of inter-
nationally recruited experts who would train CPA staff to take over operation
of the terminal upon completion of their mission (para. 4.10); (b) GPA would
build and own the terminal and lease it to a private company composed of the
terminal's major users; or (c) a mixed economy company would be organized
to build, own and operate the terminal. GPA and the Government have decided
to adopt alternative (a). Accordingly, funds have been provided in the
proposed loan for the construction of the terminal and for the required
technical assistance for its efficient operation.
(iv) Unitization of Cargo (Annex 3)
3.24      The volume of prepalletized cargo arriving is still low, most
being palletized in the ships' holds. Some 4,500 twenty-foot containers were
handled during 1974 (up from 3,500 in 1973). Most unstuffing and container
stuffing are done in the port. Conta.Lners arrive in conventional ships as
deck load, are handled by ship's gear and are transported within the port
area by tractor trailer. A substantial amount of cargo is containerizable,
and container traffic would no doubt increase if containers could be cleared
by customs at inland depots, the first: of which was recently opened in Quito.
The new port facilities would be constructed to support heavy deck loads and
to accommodate container cranes.
(v) Labor
3.25      Stevedores are employed by the shipping companies and are paid on
a cargo-output basis. Shore labor is employed by GPA and paid on a monthly
basis. This difference in the basis for compensation creates different



- 11 -
incentives between stevedores and shore labor, causes friction between the
two groups and adversely affects operating efficiency. It was therefore
agreed during negotiations that, no later than June 30, 1977, GPA would
carry out, with the assistance of the experts referred to in paragraphs 3.14
and 3.18, a study regarding the impact of the conditions of employment
applicable to the different categories of workers rendering services at the
Guayaquil Port upon the efficiency of the operations at such Port and, after
consultation with the Bank, would take all necessary steps to implement the
recommendations of such study. In 1974, GPA's Operations Department staff
numbered some 500, which is not excessive. There are separate unions for
stevedores and shore labor. There have been no strikes in recent years.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives
4.01      The objectives of the project are to increase the capacity and
operational efficiency of the port of Guayaquil by:
(a) providing additional berths and facilities to relieve
existing congestion and handle forecast increases in
general and containerized cargo and in dry and liquid
bulk cargo;
(b) strengthening the autonomy and efficiency of GPA
through institutional changes;
(c) providing technical assistance to improve port operations
and to set up a training program for shore labor, stevedores
and equipment operators (Annex 4); and
(d) providing technical assistance to operate and manage the
proposed bulk terminal for two years and to train GPA
staff to operate and maintain it thereafter.
B.   Description
4.02      The project, described in more detail in Annex 5, consists of:
(a) dredging and placing of selected fill material;
(b) the construction of three deepwater berths;
(c) the construction of three transit sheds, one container
stuffing and unstuffing shed, workshops and maintenance
facilities, roads and paved areas, utilities, and minor
buildings;



- 12 -
(d) the construction of one bulk terminal comprising: a bulk
pier, mechanized sugar loading and pneumatic wheat
unloading facilitie, and storage facilities for sugar,
wheat, molasses and edible oil;
(e)  the relocation of the small-boat mooring facilities;
(f) the procurement of cargo-handling and workshops and
maintenance equipment; 1/
(g) consultant services for construction supervision of
(a) to (e) preceding;
(h) technical assistance for improving port operations and for
setting up a training program for shore labor, stevedores
and equipment operators; and
(i) technical assistance to manage the proposed bulk
terminal for two years and to train GPA staff to
operate it thereafter.
4.03      Map IBRD 11709 shows the Layout of the new facilities.  The three
deep-water berths are designed as multipurpose berths and will be able to
handle break-bulk general cargo and heavy lifts, bananas and containers.
They will be able to support heavy deck loads and to accommodate container
gantry cranes. The transit sheds will be well removed from the wharf face-
line to provide adequate working space. The bulk terminal is multipurpose
and will be handling imports and exports of both liquid and dry bulk cargoes.
The project includes the construction of sufficient open storage and parking
areas (Annex 6) and an approach roac[ to the new port area, which will facil-
itate traffic flows and operations in the existing port as well.
4.04      The project constitutes thIe logical extension of facilities in the
port and is the least cost construction solution. The new facilities at the
Puerto Maritimo could, with reasonably attainable improvements in operating
efficiency, handle forecast traffic to the mid-1980's, depending on the trend
of containerization. However, because of the normal degree of uncertainty in
traffic forecasts and because of the economies-of-scale in construction, the
Bank has agreed with GPA to include, in the contract documents, an option to
construct a fourth berth as an extension of the three berths now planned.
However, since the fourth berth is not economically justified at present
(para. 5.16), agreement was reached during negotiations that construction of
the fourth berth would not be undertaken until the completion of the works in
this project, unless its economic justification was demonstrated to the Bank
and satisfactory arrangements for its financing were made.
1/   The list of specific items to be procured will be determined with the
advice of the port operations excpert and agreed between GPA and the Bank
during project execution.



- 13 -
C.   Cost Estimates
4.05      The total estimated cost of the project is US$83.6 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of US$56.7 million (68%). Imported construc-
tion material used on the site is not subject to import duties--nor is construc-
tion equipment--provided it is exported after completion of the works. Local
costs include a 4% sales tax on locally purchased construction materials.
Detailed cost estimates are given in Table I and summarized below:
Million S/              Million US$           % of
Total
Local   Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign   Total  Cost
Dredging                   65.4    286.8   352.2       2.6    11.5      14.1  16.8
Wharf Construction        116.7    388.2   504.9       4.7    15.5      20.2  24.1
Landworks                 255.0    206.5   461.5    10.2       8.3      18.5  22.1
Bulk Terminal and
Other Equipment          40.9    204.2   245.1       1.6     8.2       9.8  11.8
Consultant Services        61.5      41.0   102.5      2.5      1.6      4.1   5.0
Technical Assistance        5.0       7.5    12.5      0.2     0.3       0.5   0.6
Sub-total               544.5  1,134.2 1,678.7    21.8    45.4        67.2  80.4
Contingencies
Physical                 23.7      52.6    76.3      0.9     2.1       3.0   3.6
Price                   105.5    230.5   336.0       4.2     9.2      13.4  16.0
Sub-total               129.2    283.1   412.3       5.1    11.3      16.4  19.6
Total                   673.7  1,417.3 2,091.0    26.9    56.7        83.6 100.0
4.06      The bids for the main contract covering dredging, wharves, land-
works, small-boat mooring and bulk terminal were opened on March 15 and are
being reviewed by the consultants, Messrs. PalDaer and Baker (US). Until
the analysis and evaluation of the bids is completed, GPA will not be able
to determine the winning bid; however, the cost estimates have been prepared
by adopting a base consistent with the low bid and adding thereto the estimated
costs for cargo-handling equipment, consultant services and technical assis-
tance. Provision has also been made for physical contingencies at 5% and for
price contingencies amounting to about 20%.
D.   Project Execution
(i) Engineering services
4.07      GPA would be responsible for the execution of the project, assisted
by the consultants, Messrs. Palmer and Baker (US), who prepared the Master
Plan for the port, the detailed engineering and the tender documents, and who
have been retained by GPA for the supervision of construction works. This
arrangement is satisfactory to the Bank. The consultants' services will



- 14 -
include about 192 man-months of expatriate specialist staff at an average
cost of US$5,700 per man-month and about 348 man-months of local technical
staff at an average cost of US$2,100 per man-month. The consultants will
train a group of GPA engineers on site during the construction period to
enable them to carry out maintenance operations. Retroactive financing is
recommended for foreign expenditure up to US$180,000 incurred for engineering
services after January 1, 1976.
(ii)  Subsoil conditions
4.08      Subsoil conditions at the Puerto Maritimo are not favorable.  How-
ever, the present design and construction sequence are based on the experience
gained in constructing the existing wharves when slides and damage to the super-
structure occurred (Annex 5).
(iii)  Technical assistance
4.09      In addition to the expert advice for reviewing port operations,
whlich will be provided under a United Nations program (para. 3.14), GPA needs
technical assistance for organizing a suitable program for training port
labor, stevedores and equipment operators. For this purpose, it was agreed
during negotiations that GPA shall (a) enter into a technical assistance
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Servicio Ecuatoriano de
Capacitacion Profesional (SECAP) or other suitable institution acceptable to
the Bank; (b) employ training experts whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review the format and con-
tents of the training program. This technical assistance program will not be
financed by the Bank loan since GPA has already received offers from the
American Association of Port Authorities (AAPA) and the Organization of
American States (OAS) to assist in the training of its shore labor at no cost
to GPA.
4.10      In order to assist GPA in managing the proposed bulk terminal, 120
man-months of services of technical specialists have been included in the
project at an average cost of US$4,000 per man-month. In addition to managing
the terminal for the first two years, they would train local staff to manage,
operate and maintain it thereafter. The technical assistance would be phased
out during the third year, according to a program which would be agreed with
the Bank. During negotiations, it was agreed that the technical assistance
would be continued until the Bank is satisfied that the local staff is
adequately trained. Bank financing for this item would prolong the disburse-
ment period of the loan until 1981, but this is considered worthwhile since
it would facilitate the hiring of qualified personnel.
E.   Project Financing
4.11      The foreign exchange component, amounting to US$56.7 million, would
be financed partly by the proposed Bank loan of US$33.5 million, partly by
the Government (US$20 million) and the balance by GPA's internal cash genera-
tion. The Government and GPA are negotiating with a private bank for a US$10



- 15 -
million loan, and, if these negotiations are satisfactorily completed, the
Government's contribution would be reduced to US$10 million. The local cost
component would be provided by GPA from its own resources (for details, see
paragraph 6.13 and Annex 11).
F.   Procurement
4.12      The main contract, comprising marine works, land works and bulk
cargo-handling installations, will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding conducted under procedures consistent with, but involving
a slight modification of, the Bank guidelines. This permits GPA to require the
successful bidder to furnish a bank guarantee instead of a performance bond as
security for the execution of the contract. This change was agreed to because
the Law of Ecuador specified bank guarantees and precluded the right to offer
performance bonds in lieu thereof. Six bids received in response to the invita-
tion sent to 17 prequalified firms were opened on March 15 and are being evalu-
ated. Procurement of the cargo-handling equipment will also be made through
international competitive bidding.
C.   Disbursements
4.13      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against 60% of foreign
exchange expenditures. Any funds remaining upon completion of the project
would be cancelled.
H.   Ecology
4.14      The project would alter the existing embankments of the channel by
reclamation of the area of the new facilities. The source of fill is material
dredged from the channel, ihich would be widened and deepened to accommodate
larger ships. The existing facilities are located on a tidal inlet some 77 km
from the open sea, and experience has shown that the amount of silting is
small. No large scale variations in the dredged areas and maintenance dredging
quantities are foreseen. The dredged material which cannot be used as selected
fill material would be deposited on the swampy low level mangrove areas near
the port. The port's own dredger would carry out all maintenance dredging as
required. The new port facilities would handle general cargo similar to that
handled at present, and the bulk terminal would handle only non-polluting
cargo, e.g., wheat, sugar, molasses and vegetable oils. No adverse effects
are therefore expected.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      Guayaquil is Ecuador's leading general cargo port; in 1974, it
handled some 80% of general cargo imports and exports, excluding bananas.
Traffic at the port has grown rapidly since 1972 in response to the country's
recently accelerated rate of economic growth. In view of the continuing



- 16 -
trend of traffic growth, the failure to provide additional port facilities
at Guayaquil, the country's major port and principal commercial and industrial
center, could act as a bottleneck to the country's development. The proposed
project is therefore of high priority in Ecuador's development plans.
B.   Traffic Forecasts
5.02      Traffic forecasts were based on the following studies, as revised
by the Bank:
(a) Ecuador Port Development Study, Sir William Halcrow and
Partners (UK), August 1974;
(b) Feasibility Study for Additional Facilities; Maritime Port
of Guayaquil, Palmer and Baker (US) and Consultores Nacionales
(Ecuador), August 1974, and Supplement (January 1975).
The forecasts are consistent with growth rates for imports and exports
estimated in Bank Report No. 507-EC (Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Ecuador of August 1974) as updatted by a Bank economic mission to Ecuador
in July 1975.
5.03      Guayaquil's predominance as Ecuador's main port has declined some-
what in recent years since traffic, notably of bananas, shifted to other ports,
especially Puerto Bolivar and Esmeraldas, as the areas of cultivation of
the banana crop shifted to the areas of influence of these ports. During the
traffic forecast period (1975-1985), Guayaquil's share of port traffic will
continue to decline,although at a slower pace, since the growth rate of
banana exports, the principal factor in the shift, will be relatively low.
Guayaquil's share of export traffic is expected to be 41% in 1985 as compared
to 47% in 1974; its share of imports is forecast to decline from 81% in
1974 to 78% in 1985. Some additional import traffic will pass through
Manta (which now has excess capacity) and through Esmeraldas, where two new
berths are being constructed.
5.04      Guayaquil import traffic i3s expected to grow at 7.5% per annum
in the period 1975-1985, exports at 2.5%. Traffic is forecast to grow
from 1,796,000 tons in 1974 to 3,266,000 tons in 1985. Details are given
in Annex 8.
5.05      Traffic in containers has not been significant in Guayaquil and
has not increased in the last few years. In 1974, some 30,000 tons in some
4,500 containers were handled there. With expected simplification of customs
procedures, planned road improvements and the proposed open berths designed
for containers, which should increase container-handling efficiency, traffic
in containers is expected to grow steadily after 1979. Based on estimates
of containerizable traffic, tonnages in containers are expected to increase
from an estimated 60,000 tons in 1979 to 215,000 tons in 1982 and 425,000
tons in 1985 (Annex 8).



- 17 -
5.06      Lower transportation and handling costs at the proposed bulk terminal
will produce a redistribution of traffic from private bulk terminals and river
loading points to the new bulk pier. This will principally involve sugar and
molasses (presently loaded from barges, which will all be handled at the new
bulk terminal), vegetable oils and most grain imports. Details of how this
allocation was made are spelled out in Annex 9.
C.  Economic Analysis
(i) Calculation of Project Benefits
5.07      For the purpose of the economic analysis, the project was split
into two elements, the general cargo berths and the bulk terminal pier, and
each was justified separately since each caters to a certain distinguishable
share of port traffic which is transported in different kinds of ships. In
addition, benefits are different for each kind of traffic.
5.08      Project benefits have been calculated as the difference in directly
quantifiable port user costs with and without the project; indirect benefits
which may be induced beyond the port sector of the economy were not quan-
tifiable and have been excluded. The benefits have been calculated separately
for the following cost components: (a) cargo-handling costs in port; (b) costs
of vessels in port; (c) costs of vessels at sea; (d) costs of lighterage; and
(e) costs of traffic diversion to other ports. Cost reductions which may
accrue to foreign ports through the use of larger bulk carrier vessels and
containers, made possible by the project, have not been taken into account.
5.09      The berth occupancy at the port reached a high level in 1974 (para.
3.19) but was combined with relatively low operational efficiency (para. 3.16).
A rapid increase in average ship waiting times is therefore to be expected if
operating efficiency is not improved. The present operating conditions, how-
ever, have not been used as a basis of comparison in calculating the economic
rate of return because an improvement in cargo-handling rates is expected to
take place due to proposed measures (para. 3.18). The benefits have been
calculated from this improved operational base.
5.10      Benefits from constructing the general cargo berths consist of
savings in ship turnaround time and savings from avoiding lighterage of
bananas and from diverting traffic to other ports. There would also be some
savings in the costs of handling containers (and, to a lesser extent, general
cargo) at the new berths. Based on 1974 operations at GPA wharves, ship
service and waiting time were simulated, using a computer model developed
in the Bank. Operations were then simulated for a number of years, with and
without the project, to estimate savings in ship waiting time due to the
project. In making these calculations, it was assumed that improvements
would be made (both with and without the project) in the rates of handling
general cargo and bananas. See Annex 9 for details.
5.11      Benefits from constructing the bulk terminal pier consist of savings
in transport unit costs from using larger ships and savings in cargo-handling
costs in port. Especially in the traffic of sugar and molasses, which at



- 13 -
present are handled from lighters to ships in the river, savings in cargo-
handling costs and in reduced ship service time will be significant.
(ii) Allocation of Project Benefits
5.12      In the calculation of the economic return (ER), only those direct
benefits which are quantifiable and accruing to the Ecuadorean economy have
been included, while benefits to other (foreign) beneficiaries have been
excluded. This allocation has been made taking into account present trends
in the participation of Ecuador in ocean shipping (Annex 9). To the extent
that port improvement will produce additional benefits to Ecuador (para. 6.09
on proposed port charge increases; para. 3.16 on surcharges), net benefits have
been understated. Therefore, in adclition to the economic return accruing to
Ecuador, an analysis, including also direct benefits to foreign vessels, is
contained in the evaluation (Table 3). The actual return would lie between
these values (14% and 21%) and woulc depend on the degree to which new port
charges could recover benefits from foreign ships.
5.13      Cost reductions in ocean freight under Ecuadorean flag ships, or
vessels chartered by Ecuadorean interests, have been fully allocated to
Ecuador. These represent about 55% of the total bulk freight shipping
affected by the project and nearly 50% of general cargo shipping (Annex 9).
This relatively high proportion of vessels owned or chartered by Ecuador is
due to the present, almost exclusive, control by Ecuadorean vessels of bulk
imports (grain, vegetable oil), the fast growing Ecuadorean Merchant Marine,
and the recent Government decree (ley de Reserva de Carga) requiring that up
to 50% of all import and export cargo should be carried under the Ecuadorean
flag.
5.14      Cost reductions in cargo handling in the project port have been
fully allocated to Ecuador, as well as cost reductions due to avoidance of
lighterage and the elimination of traffic diversion to other ports.
(iii) Analysis of Project Size
5.15      In the analysis, it was found that the single bulk berth would soon
develop a high occupancy rate and that an additional berth would be needed
in about 1985-1986, without any significant investment being needed in silos,
etc. The additional berth, which is not part of the project, would provide
capacity until about 1999. An analysis of the project over the period 1976-
1999, including the costs of a second berth, yielded an ER of 16%.
5.16      A marginal analysis for the third and fourth general cargo berths
was made, as a result of which the proposed three-berth expansion was found
fully justified. A fourth berth however, yielded an ER of about 8% over a
20-year life, but a first year return (FYR) of only 3%. An analysis of this
FYR shows that, if only three berths are built first, an additional fourth
would be justified in 1985, i.e., six years after the expected completion
date of the proposed project. A sensitivity analysis of these conclusions
has been carried out (Table 3).



- 19 -
(iv) Economic Evaluation
5.17      The proposed port expansion project is well justified, with an ER of
at least 14%. The bulk terminal pier shows an ER of 12% and the three general
cargo berths, 16%, including benefits wiich are estimated to be obtained during
the period 1979-1999. Benefits have, however, been considered as constant
after the increased capacity provided by the project is fully utilized (1992
for the bulk pier, 1985 for the general cargo berths). Further, the ER gives
the return to the Ecuadorean economy because it excludes that part of the
benefits (about 35% of the total in 1980) which is assumed to be retained by
foreign interests. To the extent that these benefits could be recovered by
Ecuador (para. 5.12), the project would increase its ER to a maximum of 21%
(16% for the bulk pier, 24% for the general cargo berths, Table 3).
5.18      Sensitivity analyses have been carried out on the main parameters
affecting the economic evaluation (costs and benefits), showing that the ER
would, even under adverse assumptions, still remain at 11 to 13%, which is
acceptable (Table 3).
6. FINANCES
A.   Accounting, Audit, Budgets and Insurance
6.01      GPA's accounting system was set up by an international accounting
firm (Price Waterhouse), and its financial statements are prepared in a
commercial manner. However, GPA needs a system of cost accounting to be
established for management information and tariff-making purposes. GPA's
operating statistics should also be substantially improved. Therefore,
during negotiations, GPA agreed, not later than December 31, 1976, with the
assistance of consultants or specialists whose qualifications and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, to implement
statistical and cost accounting systems adequate to furnish the information
needed for tariff setting purposes. These consultants will be financed by
GPA.
6.02      In 1975, GPA introduced a budget-by-programs system; budget data
are submitted in considerable detail to DIHERC and the National Ports Council.
GPA's General M1anager may reallocate certain amounts among the budget cate-
gories.
6.03      An international accounting firm, Deloitte Haskins and Sells, is
GPA's external auditor. Existing external audit arrangements are satisfactory;
however, internal audit procedures require improvements, including an adequate
system of inventory control, as outlined by the external auditors to GPA in
April 1975. Agreement was reached during negotiations that GPA will, with
the assistance of its external auditors, establish, not later than December 31,
1976, improved internal auditing procedures and a system of inventory controls.



- 20 -
6.04      GPA carries adequate insurance against fire, theft and other risks,
and assurances were obtained during negotiations that adequate insurance would
be maintained in the future.
B.   Past Finances
6.05      In its 16 years of operation, GPA has had losses on its operations
in only two years, 1968 and 1969, when expenses (principally salaries and
wages) were increased 60%. Since then, GPA has had a reasonable level of
earnings. Results for the years 1972, 1973 and 1974 are given in Table 5.
Revenues and expenses rose rapidly in the period as traffic increased. The
financial rate of return on average net fixed assets was 8.8%, 13.3% and
21.7%, respectively, in these years, and operating ratios 72%, 64% and 57%.
Cash generated from operations has provided ample funds for debt service, and
the surpluses have either been lent, to the Government or invested in short
term securities.
6.06      GPA's fixed assets have not been revalued since the port was com-
pleted in 1963, and depreciation provisions are low. The result is that
earnings and financial rates of return are overstated. During negotiations,
GPA agreed that it will contract a recognized professional firm to conduct
a revaluation by the end of 1976 and prepare a realistic depreciation
schedule for financial and cost accounting purposes.
6.07      Balance sheets for the years ended December 31, 1972, 1973 and 1974
are shown in Table 4. They indicate a strong financial position at the end
of 1974 when liquid investments totaled S/ 180 million and debt was only
19% of total capitalization. Moreover, the Government of Ecuador and the
Province of Guayas owed GPA some SI 35.5 and SI 12.3 million, respectively,
most of which is overdue. During negotiations, it was agreed that the
Government will repay these debts by the end of 1976 and cause the Province
of Guayas to repay its debts to GPA not later than December 31, 1978.
C.   Tariffs
6.08      GPA provides all port services except stevedoring, which is supplied
by private firms. Port charges are not cost based, and GPA provides a number
of preferential rates, especially for exports. Storage charges have been very
low historically, which has been one of the factors in the congestion of
storage areas in the port. In mid-1975, storage charges were revised, and
rates more than quadrupled.
6.09      In  July 1974, GPA made a proposal for port tariff increases to
DIMERC, based on a comparison between port tariffs in Guayaquil and other
west coast ports of South America. The proposed tariff would increase
revenues by about 20%. The proposal, as revised by DIMERC, was approved in
November 1975 by the National Ports Council, to be effective January 1, 1976.
The new tariff improves, to some extent, the existing tariff structure; how-
ever, further changes are envisaged prior to the inauguration of the proposed
facilities (para. 6.11). Details of the old and new tariffs are given in
Annex 10.



- 21 -
D.   Future Finances
6.10      Based on the traffic forecasts (Annex 8) and the allocation of
traffic among GPA and private installations outlined in Annex 9, financial
forecasts were made by GPA staff and reviewed and revised by Bank staff. The
forecasts reflect the new tariff levels from January 1, 1976 as recently ap-
proved (para. 6.09). A detailed list of assumptions used is given in Annex 11,
and the forecasts are given in Table 5. The results are summarized as follows:
(Million of Sucres)
Return
Oper-  on Net    Debt
Operating  Operating      Net    Interest       Net    ating  Fixed    Service
Year  Revenues   Expenses   Revenues  Cost (Net) Income   Ratio  Assets  Coverage
1975     402         204         198        (8)      206        51    34        7.9
1976     419         257         162        (6)      168        61    25        5.1
1977     458         297         161        16       145        65    23        3.1
1978     494         340         154       54        100        69    22        2.1
1979     533         414         119       106        13        78      7       1.3
1980     736         486         250        75       175        66      9       2.0
6.11      The operating ratios are low and the returns on fixed assets very
high between 1975 and 1978 for the reason given in paragraph 6.06 (under-
valuation of fixed assets). When the project facilities come into use, these
ratios will be more realistic (the return on fixed assets will actually be
even lower than shown after existing port assets are revalued). More impor-
tantly, debt service coverage declines to an unacceptably low level in 1979.
It has, therefore, been assumed that, when the project is completed and
improved services are provided, a further increase of 25% in the level of
port charges will be made in 1980, and, thereafter, an attempt will be made
to relate the tariff structure to the cost of the services, using the data
that would be provided by the proposed costing system (para. 6.01). In addi-
tion to improving GPA's debt service coverage, the tariff increase in 1980
would generate funds required by GPA to finance part of its next port expan-
sion expected in the mid-1980's. Therefore, it was agreed during negotiations
that, starting in fiscal year 1980 and thereafter, GPA will achieve a rate of
return of at least 8% on revalued average net fixed assets.
6.12      A forecast cash flow for GPA was prepared and is given in Table 6.
Results for the construction period of the project, 1976-1979, are summarized
as follows:



- 22 -
Million
Source of Funds                                  Million S/    _US$    %
Funds generated from current
operations                                       771.4         30.9    32
Sale or maturity of investments (net)              280.0         11.2    12
Repayment of debts by the Government                23.8          1.0      1
Bank loan                                          830.0         33.2    35
Government or private bank loan                    247.5          9.9    10
Government loan                                    250.0         10.0    10
Other                                                0.5          -        -
Total                                       2,403.2         96.2   100%
Application of Funds
Capital expenditures - Project                   2,072.5         82.9    86
Debt service (principal and interest:)             307.1         12.3    13
Increase in cash                                    23.6          1.0      1
Total                                       2,403.2         96.2   100%
6.13      The above cash flow and project financing plan is based on the
assumption that project foreign costs (estimated to be about US$56.2 million
plus US$0.5 million in technical assistance after 1979) are to be financed
from the following sources: US$33.2 million (plus US$0.3 million in techni-
cal assistance after 1979) by the Wcrld Bank, US$23.0 million (plus US$0.2
million in technical assistance after 1979), partly by loans to GPA and
partly by GPA's internal cash generation. It has been agreed that GPA will
be provided with US$20.0 million for the project, as follows: (a) a US$10.0
million loan, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, either from
the Government or from a private bank guaranteed by the Government, as a
condition of loan effectiveness; and (b) another US$10.0 million loan from
the Government on terms not less favorable than those of the proposed World
Bank loan (Annex 11). As regards the local project costs (US$26.7 million
million equivalent plus US$0.2 million equivalent in technical assistance
after 1979), GPA will be able to provide the funds from its own resources.
6.14      Forecast balance sheets for GPA are given in Table 4.  They indicate
that GPA's financial position would be good throughout the forecast period.
At the end of 1980, the working ratio (current assets to current liabilities)
would be 4.7 and the debt/equity ratio 46/54. Both are satisfactory; however,
because of the expected repayment terms of the other foreign project financing,
debt service would absorb a very large share of GPA's cash flow. During
negotiations, it was agreed that no iurther debt would be incurred unless debt
service would be covered at least 1.5 times.



- 23 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with GPA and the
Government on the following matters:
(a) With the Government
(i)  assurances that the Government will take all action to
enable GPA to establish salaries and fringe benefits
consistent with GPA's need to employ qualified staff
for top and middle management posts (para. 3.09);
(ii)  maintaining of the customs guarantee system if the port
becomes congested (para. 3.18);
(iii)  simplification of customs procedures and auction of
abandoned goods (para. 3.1R); and
(iv)  assurances that Government obligations would be repaid
in 1976 and 1978 (para. 6.07).
(b)  With GPA
(i)  engagement of port operations experts by end of 1976
(paras. 3.14 and 3.18);
(ii)  revision of storage rates (para. 3.18);
(iii) GPA to carry out a study on the impact of the conditions
of employment upon the efficiency of port operations and,
after consultation with the Bank, to implement the study's
recommendations (para. 3.25);
(iv)  GPA to seek approval of the Bank to undertake construction
of fourth berth (para. 4.04);
(v)  technical assistance to improve port operations, establish
a training program and manage the bulk terminal; continuation
of the technical assistance for bulk terminal management until
the Bank is satisfied that the staff is trained (paras. 4.09
and 4.10);
(vi)  new statistical and cost accounting systems to be devised
by consultants by end 1976 (para. 6.01);
(vii)  improvements in internal audit system by end 1976
and a system of inventory controls (para. 6.03);
(viii)  maintaining of adequate insurance (para. 6.04);



_ 24 -
(ix) revaluation of fixed assets by end 1976 (para. 6.06);
(x) rate of return covenant (para. 6.11); and
(xi) debt service coverage (para. 6.14).
7.02      Retroactive financing is recommended for foreign expenditure up to
US$180,000 incurred for engineering services after January 1, 1976 (para. 4.07).
7.03      It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that a financing con-
tract with the Government be duly signed on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 6.13(a)).
7.04      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$33.5
million equivalent for a term of 24 years, including a grace period of four
years.
April 20, 1976



APPRALIAL OF A SZCCND oui AQUL PORT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
% of
Total
Locsl       bLei          TI                      ForeiLgn     Tt- l         Ctl
- - - - - (S/O 0OO0O) - - - - -                          )-
I.  DRIDMING
Dredging including mobilization          20.30        109.38      129.68         812         4,375       5,187
S9ndfill and surcharge                   45.05        177.50      222.55       1,c02          7,100      8,902
Sub-total                              65.35        286.88      352.23       2,614         11,475     14,089       16.8
II.   CSnRuuTIoN
(a) Wharf Construetion
General Cargo Bertha (3)          103.07        346.73      449.80       4,123         13,869     17,992
Bulk eargo pier                    13.42         40.53       53.95         537         1,621       2,158
Srall boats moering                 0.25          1.00        1.25          10            40          50
Sub-total                            I16.74i        388.26      505.00       4,670         15,530     20,200       24.1
(b) Landworks
Transit Sheds and
Other Buildings                   87.62        119.58      207.20       3,505         4,783       8,288
Open storage areas and roads      126.80         24.12      150.92       5,072            965      6,037
Utilities and Services            4i0.50         62.83      103.33       1.620         2.513       4.133
Sub-total                             254.92        206.53      461.45      10,197          8,261     18,458       22.1
III  EQUPET
(a) Bulk Terminal
Loading/unloading Gentry            1.80         42.20       44-00          72         1,688       1,760
Grain Silos                        10.75         50.13       60.88         430          2,005      2,435
Raw Sugar Storage                  15.98         52.95       68.93         639         2,118       2,757
Liquid Cargo Storage                6.82         26.88       33.70         273         1,075       1,348
(b)  Cargo handling                       5.25         29.75       35.00         210         1,190       1,400
(c) Workshop and Maintenance              0.25          2.25        2.50          10            90         zO
Sub-total III                         40.85        204.16      245.01       1,634          8,166      9,800       I1.8
IT.  CONSULTAXT SERVICES                      61.50         41.00      102.50       2,460         1,640       4,100        5.0
V. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                       5.00          7.50       12.50         200           300         500        0.6
Total I, II, III, nv & V              544.36      1,134.33    1,678.69      21,775        45,372      67,147
VI. CONTINGENCIES
Physical  /                            23.75         52.58       76.33         950          2,103      3,053        3.6
Price     f                           105.50        230.50      336.00       4,220          9,220     13.440       16.0
Sub-total                             129.25        283;08      412.33       5,170        11,323      16,493
GRAND TOTAL                             673.61      1,417.41    2,091.02      26,945         56,695     83,640      100.0
V 5% on items I, II & III(a)
2J Based on assumed annual percentage price increases as followse
1976    19177    1978    V279
Civil Works               13      12      12      12
Squipant                   9       8       8       8
Source: Appraisal Updating Mission
April 1976



TAELE 2
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECNID GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(us$ 000)
Contract Awarded June 1, 1976                 Disbursement (US$ 000)
During the Quarter        Cumulative
Year and Quarter
FE 1977   September 30, 1976                2,000                2,000
December 31, 1976                 2,100                4,100
March 31, 1977                    2,300                6,400
June 30, 1977                     2,300                8,700
FT 1978   September 30, 1977                2,400               11,100
December 31, 1977                 2,600               13,700
March 31, 1978                    2,600               16,300
June 30, 1978                     2,600               18,900
FY 197  September 30, 1978                 2,400               21,300
December 31, 1978                 2,400               23,700
March 31, 1979                    2,400               26,100
June 30, 1979                     2,400               28,500
FY 1980   September 30, 1979                2,400               30,900
December 31, 1979                 2,300               33,200
March 31, 1980                       50               33,250
June 30, 1980                        50               33,300
FT 1981   September 30, 1980                   50               33,350
December 31, 1980                    30               33,380
March 31, 1981                       30                33,410
June 30, 1981                        30               33,440
Fl 1982   September 30, 1981                   30                33,470
December 31, 1981                    30               33,500
Total                        3i 500
Source: Appraisal Updating Mission
April 1976



EaJADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAIAQJIL PORT PLJSET
Results of Economic Evaluation
Project            Financial ,'1    Economic /2
Component               Cost           Cost                     Bae   ntl(0%    eeisUe                                          eeis&cu            to Seuador/6
($/million)      ($/million)      cowq   c  vla               tivitfl AruiLysistR5        S       eo o>ala k         0t+15ffSit    
Bulk Pier (1)                  27.7             27.0             16            12          14            12               12            8           10              8
General Cargo Berths (3)        2.0                              2             14          22            20               16            9           14             12
Total Project            69.7              68.2             21            13         19            17                14            9           13             11
Marginal Analysis:
3rd Gen Cargo berth             6.0              5.9                   -                                                  16            6           14             12
4th Gen Cargo berth             5.7              5.6                                                                       8            3            6              5
1/  DUaed on March 1976 open bids, including consultant asvices, and 5% physical contiagmcies m  the Civil works.
2/ Financial costs net of taxes.
2   Basis for estimates:  (J) Traffic projections as per Annex 8; (ii) costs and benefits in 1976 prices; (iii) proiect fully operational in l9bO;
(iv) economic life of project, 20 years; (v) benefits include savings in cargo handling cOsts, bulk cargo ships turnaround
time, light lighterage, ship waiting time, ship service time, container handling, and traffic diversion to Manta port.
4/ ER - eorgnoic Return
FIR - First Year Return
6/ Allocation of project benefits as per paragraph 5.14, not considering recovering of benerits by futurp tariff increases.
Source: Appraisal Mission
March 2976



TABIE 4
ECUADOf
APPRAAL OF . SOD GUYAQUIL POR! PROE
Ba]o. Sheetb  "  of 12/31
(mli. Sw.)
__---_ Actual-----            ------------ Estitated----------------
1972     1973      p274      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      198
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                         16.0      13.1      32.4      20.0      21.6      22.3      28.4      43.6      35.5
Liquid investnts            113.1    148.4    179.7    305.9    395.9         275.9      25.9      25.9    165.9
Accounts receivable          26.0      30.1      55.4      40.2      41.9      45.8      49.4      53.4      73.7
Inventories and other        14.9      19.2      18.2      20.1      20.9      22.9      24.7      26.7      36.8
170.0    210.8    2135.7    386.2    480.3    366.9    128.4    149.6    311.9
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable              2.0       2.0       4.2       4.4       5.6       6.6       7.6       8.9       9.9
Accrued epensea and other   31.5       31.        14.7     36.6      41.0      44.7   4j.5         53.0      56.9
33.5     33.4      :18.9     41.0      46.6      51.3      56.1      61.9      66.8
Net Working Capital           135.5    177.4    2146.8    345.2    433.7    315.6          72.3      87.7    245.1
Working ratio                 5.1       6.3       7.3       9.4      10.3       7.2       2.3       2.4       4.7
Government debt receivable     42.4      44.4      47.8      23.8       6.3       3.3       -         -         -
Fixed Assets
Net fixed assets            568.8    557.9    561.9    567.6    724.5    702.3    680.6  2,700.0  2,636.3
Construction in progress      2.5      33.0      50.1    180.0    232.5    832.5  1,517.5           6.9      17.5
571.3    590.9    632.0    747.6    957.0  1,534.8  2,198.1  2,706.9  2,653.8
Other assets                    1.3       1.3       1.4       1.4       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0
Total Assets               751.5    8114.0    928.0  1,118.0  1,399.0   1,855.7   2,272.4   2,796.6   2,900.9
-- ---     -c   
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Long Term Debt
IBRI                        204.1    18b.5    172.1    155.18       239.0    474.7    713.9    910.4    887.9
Other foreign                 _    -              -                  30.0    105.8    182.8    247.5    200.0
Gavernrnent                                                                                       250.0    2O.
204.1    188.5    17?.1    155.8    269.0    580.5    896.7   1,407.9   1,337.9
Resferes                       37.3       4.8       4.2       4.5       4.5       4.5       4.5       4.5       4.5
Equity
Capital                     178.4    178.4    1713.4    178.4    178.4    178.4    178.14    178.4    178.4
Retained Earnings           331.7     4.3    573.3    779.3    947.1  1.092.3   1.19Z.8  1.205.8   1,380.1
510.1    620.7    75:L.7    957.7   1,125.5   1,270,7   1,371.2   1,384.2   1,558.5
Total Capitalization            751.      814.0    92tl.0  1,118.0  1,399.0  1,855.7   2,272.4  2,796.6   2,900.9
Debt/Equity Patio               27/73     23/77    19/81      1V86      19/81     31/69     40/60     50/50     46/54
Source: Bank Staff
March 1976



ECUADDR                                             TABLE 5
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Guayaguil Port Authority Income Statements
Actual for Years 1972 to 1974. Estimate for 1975 and Forecast 1975 tc 1980
(Million Sucres)
--------- Actual-------       Eetimate  --------------         Forecast------------------
1972       1973      1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980
Operating Revenues
Import Charges                        8i.6      lui.      137.2     142.0      155.9      174.1      191.1      216.1      303.7
Export charges                        13.4       1s.1       .y,      13.0       18.9       19.8       20.7       21.9       28.7
Ship Diues                            69.7      84.0      104.3      110.0      161.1      172.2      177.4      197.2      265.0
Storage                              12.8       15 .       34.7      137.0       83.0       92.0      104.5       98.0      138.3
Total Revenues                            177.7      213.6      290.1      402.0      418.9      458.1      493.7      533.2      735.7
Operating Expenses
k'ersonnel                            97.4      100.8     123.3      146.0      186.o      219.5      254.6      295.3       330.8
General and Administrative            14.3       17.9       23.9      29.2       37.2       43.9       50.9       59.1        66.2
Government Contributions               3.4        5.1       6.6       14.0       10.5       11.5        12.4      13.4        18.4
Working Costs                        115.1     123.8      153.8      189.2      233.7      274.9      317.9      367.8      415.4
Depreciation
Existing Assets                      12.7       12.4       12.7       14.3       23.1       22.2       21.7       21.2       20.6
Vroject Assets                        _          _          _          _          _          _          __ _5_               50,0
Total Depreciation                         12.7       12.4       12.7       14.3       23.1       22.2       21.7       46.2       70.6
Total Operating Expenses                  127.8      136.2      166.5      203.5      256.8      297.1      339.6      414.0      486.o
Net Operating Revenues                     49.9       75.0      123.6     198.5      162.1      161.0      154.1       119.2      2A9.7
Less Interest Expense (Income)              2.8       (.7)       (4.6)      (7.5)      (5.7)      15.8       53.6      106.2       75.4
Net Income                                 47.1       75.7      128.2      206,0      167.8      145.2      10O.5       13.0      174.3
Operating Ratio                            72         64         57         51         61         65         69         78         66
Return on Average Net Fixed Assets          8.5       13.3       21.7      34-5       25.1       22.6       22.3         7.0        9.3
Interest Coverage (Times)                                                  18.9         8.4       4.0         2.4        1.1        3.0
Debt Service Coverage (Times)                                                7.9        5.1        3.1        2.1        1.3        2.0
Source: Bank Staff
1tarci, 197o



TABLE 6
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAOUIL PORT PROJECT
Cash Flow Forecast
(Hillion Sucres)
Totals
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980      Total       1976-1979
SOURCES OF FUNDS
From Operations
Net operating revenues             198.5      162.1      161.0      154.1      119.2     249.7    1,044.6         596.4
Depreciation                        14.3       23.1       22.2       21.7       46.2       70.6      198.1        113.2
Interest Income                     18.0       25.0       24.0       11.0        1.8        6.7       86.5         61.8
230.8     210.2      207.2      186.8      167.2      327.0    1,329.2         771.4
Loans
World Bank                            -       100.5      254.0      258.5      217.0        7.5      837.5        830.0
Government or Private Bank Loan    -           30.0       75.8       77.0       64.7        2.5      250.0        247.5
Government Loan                                                                250.0                 250.0        250.0
-       130.5      329.8      335.5      531.7       10.0    1,337.5      1,327.5
Other
Sale or maturity of liquid
investnents                          -          -        120.0      250.0        -         -         370.0        370.0
Repayment of GPA loans to
Government                          24.0       17.5        3.0        3.3        -          -         47.8         23.8
other (net)                         15.7        2.5       (1.2)      (0.6)      (0.2)    (25.5)        (9.3)          .5
39.7      20.0      121.8      252.7       (0.2)    (25.5)       408.5        394.3
Total Sources of Funds             270.5      360.7      658.8      775.0      698.7     311.5    3,075.2       2,493.2
USES OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditures
Project                              -        232.5      600.0      685.0      555.0       17.5    2,090.0      2,072.5
other                              129.9        -          _          -          -                   129.9           -
129.9     232.5      600.0      685.0      555.0       17.5    2,219.9       2,072.5
Debt Service
World Bank
Existing Loan
Principal                       16.3       17.3       18.3       19.3      20.5       21.7       113.4         75.4
Interest                        10.5        9.5        8.5        7.5        6.3       5.1        47.4         31.8
Loan Requested
Principal                        -          -          -          -          -         8.3         8.3          -
Interest                         -          5.1       23.9       43.8       62.2      35.6       170.6        135.0
Government or Private Bank Loan
Principal                        -          -          -          -          -        50.0        50.0          -
Interest                         -          4.7        7.4       13.3       19.5      21.4        66.3         44.9
Government Loan
Principal                        -          -          -          -          -          -           -            _
Interest                         -          -          _          -         20.0       20.0       40.0          20.0
26.8      36.6       58.1       83.9      128.5      162.1       496.0        307.1
Purchase of Liquid Investments         126.2       90.0        -          -          -       140.0       356.2         90.0
Total Uses of Funds               282.9      359.1      658.1      768.9      683.5      319.6    3,072.1       2,469.6
Increase (Decrease) in cash              (12.4)       1.6        0.7     - 6.1        15.2       (8.1)       3.1          23.6
Source: Bank Staff
April 1976



ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOiD GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Organization Chart - Guayaquil Port Authority
Board of Directors
Secretary          General Manager        [   Legal
Lublic Relat.||                                      ting
Operations Department] Si Maint aenan ce                             Administrative               Finance Department
|                     _ an~~~~~ue  DeDarmn                    Departen
Terminals Division                                                PersonneDivision                Controllers Division
Terilnals Sec.                     oapn  ran
_ Cargo Check. S.1 AHydrograph Sc| EucatNna c| StiisS 
A Storage Section|                Navigation- Sec                  M edsical Ast n                   c0  g   
jEqui.p. Oper. S.|i Mitnnc                          }            }Sec'      o  a r                Treasury Division|
Manoeuvres Division               Mech. Equi. S.                  Purchasing Division               D     ?rses
t Pilotage Sec.  |      {~~~EquiD). nge(ctin|4;4MatrLde
Crew Section                   eInst& Uti  .                   Security Division                  Dataro       n
4   Prevention                   divis:
otr-rogmingS.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Existing Facilities
1. *The city of Guayaquil lies on the right bank of the river Guayas
just below the confluence of the rivers Babahoyo and Daule. The river Guayas
flows to the sea in the Gulf of Guayaquil by way of an extensive delta system.
The greater part of the river discharge is through the river Guayas itself to
the Canal de Jambeli.
2.        Guayaquil is also reached from the sea by way of the Estero Salado,
and it is by this route that most of her maritime trade arrives, using the new
port facilities of the maritime port of Guayaquil opened in 1963.
A.   Puerto Maritimo
(i)   General Description
3.        The port was constructed between mid-1960 and January 1963 at a
total cost of US$20 million, financed partly by Bank Loan 212-EC.
4.        The port, comprising five berths of 185 m length each, is situated
77 km (48 miles) from the sea buoy and about 64 km from the coast and is
reached by an access channel. Puerto Maritimo is connected with the outskirts
of the city by a dual carriageway road 7 km long. Thereafter, the traffic uses
the city streets.
(ii)   The Port Installations
5.        The quays are of concrete construction having prestressed concrete
piles supporting in situ concrete. The berthing face is provided with a
timber pile and crosstiimber fender system which is severely damaged by teredo.
The fendering system seems to be ineffectual in the absorption of the ship's
kinetic energy while berthing.
2
6.        Berths 3 to 6 are each backed by a transit shed of 6,848 m . The
apron is only 12 m wide, which is too narrow for eificient port operations.
The transit shed of berth 2 has an area of 5,180 m .
7.        The present port area hal usable storage space, including transit   2
and warehouses sheds, of 120,000 m . Of the open storage areas, some 50,000 a
are fenced. This fence is in addition to the perimeter fence of the port.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(iii) Cargo Handling
8.        Ship loading and unloading is achieved by means of ships' derricks.
Bananas are loaded manually in 10 kg (23 lb) or 20 kg (46 lb) boxes from the
quay, supplemented by loading from barges into the side ports on the water
side of the ship.
9.        General cargo is handled on the quay apron by forklift trucks and
tractor trailers.
10.       The port's cargo handling equipment and floating craft comprises:
1 mobile crane of 35 tons in the open storage area
1 mobile crane of 25 tons
5 mobile cranes of 15 tons
7 mobile cranes of 5 tons
1 mobile crane of 18 tons
1 mobile crane of 45 tons
1 derrick crane of 75 tons on berth No. 2
4 forklifts of 22-ton capacity each
86 forklifts of 1- to 5-ton capacity
13 tractors
70 trailers for loads of between 20 to 50 tons
8 barges
3 launches
7 tugs (of which two under construction) - 1xI,200, 1x1,000,
2x750, 2x450, 1x200 HP rating
1 600 m3 suction-hopper dredger
2 pilot launches
1 buoy barge
11.       GPA intends to purchase additional cargo-handling equipment as part
of the port expansion project.
12.       The port area is provided with a fresh water firefighting system.
Hydrants are spaced along the roadways at approximately 200 m intervals. The
fresh water main and hydrants on the quay can be used for firefighting, and
the two new tugs under construction are adapted for firefighting. With the
new equipment, firefightng equipment is adequate.
13.       Other services available along the quay are electricity and ship-to-
shore telephone.
(iv) Access to Port
14.       Ships approaching the port proceed to the first buoy of the approach
channel, situated 20 km west of Pbnta del Morro. The channel is marked by
both port and starboard buoys at approximately 2 km intervals - the maximum
spacing being the 6.5 km between buoys 15 and 17. The reach to Punta del
Morros is beset with some navigational hazards. However, pilotage being com-
pulsory, pilots are aboard at this stage. The pilot station is at Data.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Pilots leave outward bound vessels at buoy 7. The access channel in the
Estero Salado was dredged during the construction of Puerto Maritimo to a
depth of 10 m (33 feet) below MLWS and to a width of 122 m (400 feet).
Soundings in June 1971 and August 1972 revealed a tendency to accretion in
certain locations.
15.       GPA purchased a second-hand suction-hopper dredger in 1973 and 600
cubic meter hopper capacity and capable of dredging to a depth of 45 ft. The
dredger is engaged in the maintenance and improvement of the access channel
to the port.
16.       At present, ships of 8.6 m (28 feet) draft and upward are at times
obliged to await a suitable tide to cross the bar. Review of the drafts of
the list of ships frequenting the port shows that it would be advisable to
have a channel which will allow ships of 8.6 m draft to enter at any stage of
the tide. The tidal range: 2.8 m at neap tide and 4 m at spring tide; there
are no significant wind or current problems.
17.       The depth alongside the berths is now being improved, and alongside
depths of 9.25 m at MLWS are now available.
18.       Maneuvering of ships in the vicinity of the port at present requires
that large ships approach by one side of Isla Trinitaria and leave by the
other, since there is insufficient width of navigable water opposite the berths
for ships to turn. The curve into the approach channel at the north end of
Isla Trinitaria is rather tight, and ships generally require the help of a
tug or tugs to negotiate it.  The port's dredger is now improving the situation.
Dredging works in the new project include improvement of the approach channel
at this curve.
B.   The Estero Locks
19.       A ship lock connects the Estero Cobina and the Rio Gualyas, thus
affording access, principally for barges up to 500 DWT from the river to
Puerto Maritimo. The gates are operated by electricity supplied by the
diesel-driven generator housed nearby.
20.       The reason for the lock's existence is the difference in tide levels
which can be experienced at the same point of time in the river and in the
estuary. At high tide, the level in the Rio Guayas is higher than that in the
Estero Cobina, and vice-versa at low tide.
March 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Potential for Cargo Unitization in Ecuador
1.        Substantial advantages could be gained by Ecuador's economy through
increased unitization, i.e., containerization, provided that containers can
be forwarded for stuffing and unstuffing to inland terminals. The present
system, whereby all containers are unstuffed in the port, and their cargoes
moved into transit sheds because of customs regulations, deters ship owners
from introducing container ships and importers from demanding container
services. Unless the containers could be unstuffed outside the port areas,
the light type of packing of the goods within the container would increase
the chances of pilferage and damage. Customs has constructed a customs
clearance station in Quito which may be used in the future for container
inspection. This is a step in the right direction, but not yet sufficient.
2.        Although containerization is the most commonly known form of unitiz-
ing cargo and eliminating break-bulk handling, there are other methods of
unitization presently used, among them:
(a) pre-slinging of cargoes;
(b) palletization;
(c) utilization of roll-on/roll-off (Ro-Ro); and
(d) utilization of barge-carryng vessels.
3.        The different methods of unitization have different requirements
with regard to vessels. Barges can be handled only by specially designed
barge-carrying vessels. Although containers are most economically shipped
in specially designed vessels, they can also be carried by break-bulk ships.
Pallets are especially easily accommodated in non-specialized vessels. Ro-Ro
cargo needs vessels with facilities for driving or towing loaded vehicles
onto them. Some Ro-Ro vessels also have pallet and/or container carrying
facilities, i.e., composite rather than single purpose vessels. Pre-slung
cargoes do not need special vessels and can be carried in break-bulk vessels.
Palletized cargoes carried on break-bulk vessels are most easily and economically
handled if the vessel has side port loading and the possibility of using fork-
lifts in the holds.
4.        It is difficult to state exactly which form or extent of unitization
would be the most economical for Ecuador. The fact that different methods
compete in the same industry indicates that the same method is not necessarily



ANNEX 3
Page 2
suitable in every case, and that, in many cases, there is not yet sufficient
experience to allow a clearcut choike between them.
5.        Decisions on whether a pairticular shipping route should be unitized,
and the form it should take, are made by the ship owners after assessing their
own needs for economic operation in relation to their own costs.  Countries
with little shipping of their own are not always free to choose and may find
themselves investing in port facilities because of decisions taken by owners
in other countries.
6.        The basic features of unitization are large cargo units of standard-
ized shape and size and mechanized cargo handling through each step of the trans-
port system. The change from conventional cargo handling to unitization should-
produce savings in transport cost per unit by eliminating many steps of hand-
ling and also through the higher productivity of facilities and vehicles.
Transport cost savings could be increased even further by introducing larger
and faster ships as well as more efficient handling equipment. Unitization is,
therefore, more capital intensive and less labor intensive than break-bulk
transport.
7.        There are at present too nany transfer steps between the ship's hook
and the importer's door, or conversely, from the exporter's door to the ship's
hook. Since every step involves time and handling cost, the savings result-
ing from the elimination of certain points of cargo handling would be very
substantial. Moreover, savings will be realized, not only because of the
increased output of all the vehiclesi involved in the various transfer steps
per unit of time, but also as a result of the increased efficiency of facil-
ities at each transfer point, reduction of damage to goods and reduction of
time in which the goods and funds are in the non-productive pipeline.
8.        To summarize, the present project, which aims at encouraging the
container form of unitization at Guayaquil, is a step in the right direction.
March 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Program
A. Training Program for Port Labor
1.        The technical assistance to be provided under this project will
help, first, in the setting up of a training program for shore labor, steve-
dores and equipment operators. The aim of the training is to improve the
knowledge of employees, both those under the employ of GPA and those employed
by the shipping companies. The training courses are initially intended for
semi-skilled and skilled workers and, eventually, for technicians and super-
visors. The present situation in the port is that very few personnel have
a chance to receive any sort of vocational training in the field in which
they are working. At present, the opportunities for a port laborer to
advance are very slim. Frequently, the foreman is an outsider nominated by
the employer, not necessarily for his ability, while the common laborer can
continue for years working down the hatch or in the storage areas without
any chance of advancement.
2.        The training program will enable all port laborers to receive
formal training in their field. The training program will be set up by
experts who not only will teach the basis of cargo-handling, equipment
operating and storage organization, but also will supplement, where necessary,
labor's knowledge of reading and arithmetic, and introduce the workers to the
basic concepts of port operations and management. The basic training course
for semi-skilled labor should take between three and four months. Separate
courses, on a higher level, will be held for skilled labor, and, eventually,
advanced courses will be offered for technicians and supervisors.
3.        All courses are aimed at increasing the overall efficiency of port
operations while encouraging labor by providing an opportunity for advance-
ment at all stages, permitting the exceptionally talented to climb more
rapidly.
4.        GPA will be assisted by the Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitacion
Profesional (SECAP), a semi-autonomous Government agency, or other suitable
institution acceptable to the Bank, in preparing the most suitable training
program. The terms of the technical assistance agreement with the institu-
tion, as also the qualifications, experience and conditions of appointment of
the training experts to be employed, will be satisfactory to the Bank. GPA
will also afford the Bank an opportunity to review the format and the
contents of the training program.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        SECAP was recently the beneficiary of Loan 1157-EC for a project
aimed at implementing the Government's plans to expand non-formal training.
Hopefully, SECAP could take charge of the training program once it has been
established and provide training for port employees of all Ecuador's ports.
In the future, the program could be expanded to include courses in equipment
maintenance, electrical work, etc.
6.        GPA will organize the training program with the financial assistance
offered by the American Association ,f Port Authorities (AAPA) and the
Organization of American States (OAS).
B.   Management of Bulk Terminal
7.        Technical assistance to manage the bulk terminal for two years and
to train local staff of GPA to operate it thereafter has been included in the
project. A general manager will be needed, together with a specialist in the
operation of bulk wheat facilities and a specialist in sugar and molasses
bulk handling. A mechanical specialist (for maintenance and engineering
problems) would also be needed, together with a financial expert for costing,
billing and financial management of the terminal generally. During the third
year, the technical assistance would be phased out according to a program
to be drawn up in consultation with the Bank, with due regard to the progress
made by the local staff. The program would be continued until the Bank is
satisfied that the local staff is adequately trained to manage the bulk
terminal. The cost of this assistance, involving about 120 man-months at an
average cost of US$4,000 per man-month, is estimated at US$500,000, with a
foreign exchange component of US$300,000.
C.   Port Operations
8.        GPA will engage experts in port operations to provide advice to
improve the planning of ship loading and discharge operations and gang and
equipment assignments and to provide on-the-job training for staff in the
Operating Department. The services of' these experts will be financed under
a United Nations technical assistance program, of which GPA is a beneficiary.
GPA has agreed that the qualifications and experience of the experts and
their terms of reference will be satisfactory to the Bank.
March 1976



ANNEX 5
Page 1
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Project Description
1,        The project consists of the items enumerated in this annex.
(a)  Dredging of some 3.2 million m  of sandy clay and silty material
in order to: (i) deepen and widen the Estero Cobina in the reaches
of the new facilities to enable the maneuvering there of vessels
up to 30,000 DWT; (ii) remove the top layers of the silty clays--
alongside the embankment where the new facilities will be constructed
(para. 4.08); (iii) widen the upper reaches of the approach channel
opposite the existing facilities (Isla Trinitaria) to facilitate the
approach of large vessels;
(b)  Sandfill of some 1.5 million m  to replace the-removed-top layers
behind the new wharf and to reclaim and fill the low level areas
behind the wharf which will form the port operational areas; and
3
Cc)  Placing of some 1.0 million m  of sand fill as surcharge in order
to consolidate these areas. The surcharge will be left for a
minimum of six months and removed by the contractors engaged in
the landwork.
2.        The construction of three marginal multipurpose, deepwater berths,
each 185 m long, with an alongside depth of 10.7 m (35 ft) at MLW. The 20 m
wide wharf structure will be supported by prestressed, precast concrete piles,
with a concrete sheet-pile bulkhead retaining the gill behind the structure.
The deck is designed to carry heavy loads (4.5 t/m ) and will be able to carry
container-handling gantry cranes.
NOTE:     Because of the usual degree of uncertainty in the
traffic forecasts and the degree of containerization,
and because of the economies-of-scale of construction,
the contract will include an option to construct a
fourth berth as an extension of the three berths.
3.        The construction of three transit sheds of 7,200 m  each, one contain-
er consolidation shed (the design of which will be done at a later stage); work-
shops and maintenance facilities totaling some 7,900 m ; dining rooms and other
facilities for labor; provision of some 100,000 m of open siorage areas; access
roads, parking and other paved areas totaling some 300,000 m . Utilities and
services to be constructed include: electricity, telephone, fresh water, fire-
fighting systems, drainage and sewerage, area-and-street lighting, truck scales,
facilities for refrigerated containers, etc. (Annex 6).



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        The construction of one multipurpose bulk terminal comprising:
(a) One bulk pier 150 m long with two mooring dolphins and with an
alongside depth of 10.7 m (35 ft) at NLW suitable to accommodate
bulk carriers of 25-30,000 DWT. The structure will be similar to
the cargo wharf, concrete decking supported by prestressed piles;
(b) Mechanized sugar loading facilities, including a raw sugar
storage shed of 30,000-ton capacity;
(c) Mechanized pneumatic wheat unloading facilities, including
silos of 20,000-ton capacity;
(d)  Tankfarms--for molasses--15,000-ton capacity and for edible
oil--300-ton capacity;
(e) Provision of services an,l utilities--similar to those of
the cargo wharves.
5,        The relocation of the small boat mooring facility from its present
location to an area between the new cargo wharves and the bulk pier. The new
location is suitable and will not interfere with operations or future expansion.
6.        Procurement of cargo-handiling equipment for general cargo handling:
container-handling and yard-haul equipment and equipment for workshops and
maintenance. The equipment will be procured after the list of specific items
is prepared on the advice of the Port Operations Expert.
7.        Consultant Services
(a) Consulting engineers--for supervision of the construction.
(b) Technical assistance (i) to set up a training program for shore
labor, stevedores and equipment operators (which will include,
initially, the development of local personnel as trainers);
(ii) to manage the bulk terminal for two years; and (iii) to
provide advice on Port Operations (Annex 4).
8.        Construction is expected to start in the third quarter of 1976 and
be completed by late 1979. Project: completion is scheduled for end 1979,
except for the technical assistance! to manage the bulk terminal, which will
continue until end 1981.
9.        Subsoil Conditions
Subsoil conditions at the Puerto Maritimo are not favorable. Borings
on the site of the planned extension indicate a stratum of soft organic clay
with a silt content extending to some 17 meters below ground level. Below
the clay, there is a layer of dense and firm silty sand which is highly suita-
ble for bearing piles. The top soil layers cannot support fill and must be



ANNEX 5
Page 3
partially removed, replaced by selected material and consolidated by placing
a surcharge of sand fill for six months.
10.       During construction of the existing wharves, uncontrolled hydraulic
sand backfill (excessive amounts of clay and silt and too steep slopes)
caused heavy slides and damage to the superstructure. These occurrences
were investigated and remedied, and the present design and construction
sequences are based on the experience gained.
11,       Ecuador lies in an active earthquake belt, and slight tremors
occasionally occur. The piled structure and earth embankment have been designed
to resist the lateral acceleration caused by ouch tremors.
November 1975



ANNEX 6
Page 1
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Transit Shed and Open Storage Area Requirements
1.        In 1974, the port handled some 1,256,000 tons of cargo, of which
some 446,000 were banana exports. The 4,500 containers handled in 1974 are
treated as break bulk cargo since t]hey were stuffed and unstuffed within the
port area.
2.        Traffic composition for 1979, 1982 and 1985 is shown below:
1979      1982       1985
----(in 000 tons)-----
General cargo break bulk Lmports    980         1,102     1,545
General cargo break bulk esxports    739          747       794
1,719      1,849      2,339
Deduct banana exports                 535         480       465
Deduct container imports and
exports                              60         215       425
Subtotal general cargo         1,124      1,149      1,449
Less 10% of assumed direcl:
delivery                            112         115       145
Subtotal, general cargo
to be stored             1,012       1,034      1,304
Assume 360 working days per year and examine requirements for storage areas
for an average storage time of 10, 20, 30 and 40 days. Assume storage of
1.5 ton/mr  in sheds and 1.0 ton/mr  in open areas and that 40% of storage
areas, either in a shed or in the open, are required for the movement of goods.
Forty percent of cargoes will be stored in open storage areas and 60% in tran-
sit sheds.
Conclusions
3.        As seen from the table on the following page, the project will
supply sufficient covered storage areas for forecast traffic provided that
cargoes do not remain more than 20 days in the port area. Sufficient open
storage area is available to handle the forecast general cargo, banana and
container traffic.
September 1975



ANNEX 6
Page 2
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL 0F A SUCMND QUAIAQUIL PORT PROJECT
1974     1979       1982     1985
TOTAL DRY CARGO                            1,256    1A719      1,849    2,339    Tons (003)
Total Import                                 630       980     1,102    1,545      Tons (00))
Containerized                               20       30        13       25       Tons (000)
General cargo break bulk imports           610      90         979   T1, 9       Tons (000)
Indirect delivery 90%                      585      855        881    1,166    Tons (000)
Direct delivery 10%                         25       95         98       129    Tons (00a)
Total Exports                                626       739       747       794    Tons (000)
Bananas                                    447       535       480       465    Tons (00()
Containerized                               11        30        92       175    Tons (0a))
General cargo break bulk exports           168       174       175       154    Tons (000)
Indirect delivery 90%                      160       157       158       139    Tons (000)
Direct delivery 10%                          8        17        17        15    Tons (00))
Cargo passing through sheds
- 60% imports                            351      513        528       670    Tons (O0())
- 60% exports                             96       94         95        83    Tons (000)
Cargo passing open storage
- 40% imports                            234      342        353       466     Tons (0a0)
- 40% exports                             64       63         63        56    Tons (0CC))
Cargoes in transit sheds                   447      607        623       753    Tons (000)
Cargoes in open storage                    300       405       416       522     Tons (000)
Indirect deliveries per day to shed    1,242    1,686        1,730    2,091      Tons
Indirect deliveries per day
to open storage                          831    1,125      1,155    1,450    Tons
Area in shed for one day cargo
1.5 t/m                                1,380    1,873      1,922    2,322      z2
Area in open storage for one day
cargo 1.0 t/m2                         1,385    1,875      1,925    2,560      m2
Trensit shed area available
- present                             32,128
- project                                      53,728    53,728   53,728       m2
Shed areas for 10 days                  13,800   18,730          19,220   23,220  m2
20 days                 27,600   37,460    38,440   46,440    A2
30 days                 41,400   56,190    57,660   69,660       i
40 days                 55,200   74,920    76,880   92,880        X
Open storage area available
- present                             71,470                                   M2
- project                                      171,470   171,470  171,470       2
Open areas for 10 days                  13,800   18,750    19,250   25,600       wf
20 days                 27,600   37,500    38,500   51,200       m2
30 days                 41,400   56,000    57,750   76,800        n2
40 days                 55,200   75,000    77,000  102,400        m2



ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECIT
Project Execution Schedule
.  '75    1976      1977        1978        1979         1980          1981
Loan Effectiveness
Civil Works
Tendering
Evaluation and Awsrd
Dredging
Construction-Wharvea
Construction-Landwork8                                            - _
G^ntraton-~ 'k rier____
Construction-Bulk Terminal
Construction-Boat Mooring
Demobilization Dredging
Demobilization on Civil Works
&iuipamit
Preparation of Specifications
Tendering
Evaluatien and Award
Delivery
Consultant Service.
Ehgineering                                 _
Technical Assistance
Preparation of Teruo of Reference
Setting up of School
Operations-                                                      --       -
Bulk Terminal Management
t                               _  _  L  l    I  I1  1  1  8  I  I  I         I I  I    I-  I  I  T11 
Source: Conoultantos ad Bank Appraisal Mission
November 1975



ANNEX 8
Page 1
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Traffic Forecast
A.   Background
1.        Traffic forecasts are based on the following studies as revised
by Bank staff:
(i)  Ecuador Port Development Study, Sir William Halcrow and
Partners (UK), August 1974;
(ii)  Feasibility Study for Additional Facilities, Maritime Port
of Guayaquil, Palmer and Baker (US) and Consultores
Nacionales (Ecuador), August 1974, and Supplement
(January 1975).
The forecasts are consistent with growth rates for imports and exports
estimated in Bank Report No. 507-EC (Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Ecuador of August 1974), as updated by a Bank economic mission to Ecuador
in July 1975.
2.        Guayaquil has been Ecuador's main port since the time of the
Spanish conquest, although its predominance has declined in recent years as
zraffic, especially of bananas, shifted to other ports as follows:



ANNEX 8
Page 2
000 tons
Port            Traffic          1968       %    1974       _
Guayaquil             Bananas           971              542
Other            816             1,254
1,787       83   1,796      61
Puerto Bolivar        Bananas           245              662
Other              19               80
264       12     742      25
Esmeraldas            Bananas            42               170
Other               2                4
44        2     174       6
Manta                 Bananas            -                  1
Other              60              231
60       3      232       8
Total                 Bananas        1,258             1,375
Other            897             1,569
Grand total                          2,155        100  2,944       100
3.        During the forecast period (1975-1985), this trend will continue,
although at a slower pace, since the growth rate of banana exports, the
principal factor in this shift, will be relatively low. Guayaquil's actual
share of total exports and imports in the years 1968 and 1974 and its forecast
share in 1985 are given below:
000 tons
% of                  % of                  % of
1968       total      1974       total      1985       total
Guayaquil - Exports 1,181         78        802          47        1,070        41
- Imports   606        95        994          81       2,196         78
1,787               1,796                   3,266
Other Ports
- Exports   335        22        916          53       1,515         59
- Imports    33         5        234          19          619        22
368               1,150                   2,134
Total      - Exports 1,516       100      1,718          100       2,585       100
- Imports   639       100      1,226          100      2,815        100
2,155               2,944                   5,400



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Between 1974 and 1985, some growth of banana traffic will occur, and it will be
exported through Puerto Bolivar and Esmeraldas. Moreover, some additional
import traffic will pass through Manta (which now has excess capacity) and
through Esmeraldas, where two new berths are being constructed. It is unlikely,
however, that import traffic through ports other than Guayaquil will exceed
600,000 to 700,000 tons in the forecast period. Guayaquil will continue to
be the principal general cargo port of Ecuador for the foreseeable future.
B. Guayaquil Port Traffic, Past and Present
4.        Traffic through the port of Guayaquil is handled at a number of
private installations along the river Guayas and the Estero as well as at
the GPA wharves. In this annex, past and forecast traffic is given globally
for all public and private installations. In the following annex on the
economic justification, an allocation of port traffic is made to the various
facilities.
5.        Guayaquil port traffic by cargo types is given in Table 1 (imports)
and Table 2 (exports) of this annex for the years 1970 to 1974. Imports,
consisting mainly of general cargo, iron and steel, wheat, fertilizer and
chemicals, grew at an annual rate of about 15% during 1970-1974. During the
same period, exports, consisting mainly of bananas, cacao, molasses, sugar
and coffee, decreased at an annual rate of about 2%. The decrease has been
the result of a reduction in sugar exports and a shift in banana exports to
other ports as mentioned above.
C. Future Port Traffic
6.        Port traffic forecasts for 1975-1985 for Guayaquil are presented in
Tables 3 and 4 of this annex and are summarized as follows:



ANNEX 8
Page 4
Tons '000
GUAYAQUIL
1970         1975          1980            1985
Imports
General Cargo         419.9         762.0        1,106.0       1,545.0
Liquid Bulk             51.3         78,0          153.0         187.0
Dry Bulk                95.9        232.0          437.0         464.0
Sub-Total Imports      567.1      1,072.0        1,696.0       2,196.0
Exports
General Cargo         839.8         702.0          733.0         794.0
Liquid Bulk             38,0         52.0          106.0         175.0
Dry Bulk                 -           75.0           87.0         101.0
Sub-Total Exports     877,8         829.0          926.0       1,070.0
TOTAL FREIGHT             1,444.9      1,901.0        2,622.0       3,266.0
The forecasts are based on the assumption that an annual overall economic
growth rate of over 7% to the end of the decade is quite feasible, while,
beyond 1980, overall economic growth prospects are not as clear, although the
economy's rate of growth is expected to be maintained. Total Guayaquil port
traffic is expected to grow at an annual rate of close to 6% during the period
1975-1985, compared with a growth rate of 5.6% experienced during 1970-1975.
Imports are estimated to increase annually by 7.5%, while exports are estimated
to grow at 2.5%. The forecasts we:re made on the further assumption that no
capacity constraints will exist at the port of Guayaquil in 1979 and beyond.
This assumption is based on the likelihood that a port project, with additional
capacity as required, will be implemented and fully operational by 1979.
7.        Traffic forecasts are discussed by main commodities in the follow-
ing paragraphs. These estimates were based essentially on the consultants'
studies, as reviewed by the mission, and on information obtained from industry
and Government agencies.
Imports
8.        Between 1970 and 1975, imports increased annually by 15% from
567,100 tons to 994,400 tons. Impcorts are estimated to increase to 2,196,000
tons by 1985, giving an annual growth rate of 7.5%. The high growth rate
during 1970-1975 is explained by the low initial level of imports in 1970,
and the rapid increase in imports experienced since 1973 as a result of
large petroleum export revenues. The estimated future growth of imports
is summarized in Table 3 to this Armnex.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
9.        Fertilizer:  Since 1973, fertilizer usage in Ecuador has been given
a sharp impetus by the Government's active role in encouraging its use. Until
1973, consumption of fertilizer grew at 8-10% annually. In future years, it may
be expected to rise at between 12-15%. The only fertilizer plant in Ecuador
is located in Guayaquil. This plant imports most of its raw material needs.
The deficit in production is supplied by direct imports, handled at the spe-
cialized pier of the fertilizer company (FERTISA) in Guayaquil. A new
200,000 ton capacity plant to be located in the Guayas province is at present
being studied. Since this plant is to be based on expected Guayaquil bay gas
reserves, the fertilizer situation beyond 1982 is difficult to forecast.
However, port traffic projections have been made on the assumption that a
200,000 ton capacity plant would be operational in 1982.
10.       Oils and Fats:  Ecuador has a deficit in animal fats and vegetable
oils. Nearly half of the requirements for vegetable oil is supplied from
domestic production, while virtually all the animal fat is imported. These
imports have been growing at about 7% annually. In the future, as income
increases rapidly, consumption of soaps and edible oils -- the two main uses
of oils and fats - is estimated to grow at over 12%. This demand is expected
to be met partly by increased production of short-cycle oil crops and African
palm. The deficit, estimated at 58,000 tons in 1982, is to be filled by im-
ports, of which 80% are estimated to be handled in Guayaquil.
11.       Iron and Steel:  All the metal requirements of Ecuador are filled
by imports either of finished products or semi-finished goods.  Imports of
these products almost doubled from 1972 to 1974 and are expected to continue
to grow rapidly to sustain the expected increase in overall levels of economic
activity. By 1980, total demand is projected at about 500,000 tons. A 400,000
ton capacity integrated mill is under study_1/. Port traffic projections of
iron and steel products have been made on the assumption that this project
would be operational in 1981. However, some steel products, steel sections
and finished products would still be imported, with a large proportion (80%)
coming via Guayaquil.
12.       Chemical Products:  This category consists of a considerable variety
of products, of which approximately half comprises intermediate goods; the
balance includes, among other items, pharmaceuticals, insecticides, paints
and explosives. These imports are expected to increase to 195,000 tons by
1985, or by 8% annually. This increase reflects the development of some
import substitution industries, although the great part of chemical products
would continue to be imported.
13.       Wheat:  Wheat, used mainly for bread, is not produced locally in
quantity and quality sufficient to satisfy the increasing demand. Although
Government incentives and wheat programs are expected to double local pro-
duction by 1982, a large amount would still be imported. Wheat imports,
1/   By the Centro de Desarrollo Industrial del Ecuador (CENDES).  Plant
probably to be located at Posorja, southwest of Guayaquil.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
handled almost exclusively at Guayaquil Port, are estimated to increase from
a level of about 146,000 tons in 1974 to about 350,000 tons by 1985, implying
an annual growth rate of 8%.
14.       Other Cereals, Oats and Barley:  Other cereals, oats and barley are
imported to fill deficits in local production. Rice has been imported on
occasion (as in 1974) to fill temporary needs and barley to supply brewery
requirements when local production, which has been declining in recent years,
was insufficient. The import of these other cereals is expected to continue
increasing in the future at about 7Z annually, reaching a total level of
64,000 tons by 1985, all to be handled at Guayaquil.
15.       Asphalt and Petroleum Products:  Although the major part of domestic
demand is met by the refineries at Santa Elena, west of Guayaquil, some pro-
ducts, mostly aviation fuels and lubricants, are imported. LPG (liquified
petroleum gas) imports began in 1972 and are increasing rapidly. The import
of petroleum products through Guayaquil is expected to continue increasing
at a rate of 6% annually until 1977. After completion, in 1977, of the new
refinery at Esmeraldas, only LPG imparts are expected to continue through
Guayaquil. Although asphalt could be produced by the new refinery, it is
expected, due to high production costs, that highway requirements of asphalt
would continue to be met by imports. Eighty percent (50,000 tons) of these
imports, increasing to about 63,000 tons in 1982, are expected to be handled
at Guayaquil.
16.       Cement:  Consumption is expected to expand rapidly.  Imports of
cement, rising because of shortages of local supply, are expected to reach
100,000 tons through Guayaquil by 1977. Productive capacity expansion
plans 1/ are expected to reduce imports drastically after 1977. By 1984,
cement imports are expected to be negligible.
17.       Manufactured and Consumer Goods:  Thirteen other commodity groups,
ranging from textiles to transport equipment, are shown in Tables 1 and 3.
Although import forecasts of these commodities were made on a product-by-
product basis, they reflect overall expectations of stepped up levels of
economic activity in general and of wanufacturing and ccnstruction in particu-
lar, as well as the import requirements emerging from the increased public
investment program. Consumer goods Lmports via Guayaquil are expected to
increase rapidly in the coming years at a rate close to 8% annually, a rate
that takes into account a gradual process of import substitution, particularly
in textile fibers, electric appliances and other consumer durables.
Exports
18.       Between 1970 and 1975, exports decreased from 877,800 tons to
801,800 tons due to reduction in banana and sugar exports. Future
1/ Cementos Guayaquil, Chimborazo and Guapan (1977); Selva Alegre (1983).



ANNEX 8
Page 7
exports are estimated to increase to 1,070,000 tons by 1985, or at an annual
rate of nearly 3%. Although banana exports are expected to continue to
decline, exports of sugar, molasses, textile fibers and other agricultural
products are expected to expand, as shown in Table 4 of this annex.
19.       Bananas:  Slow growth (at 2% annually) is forecast for Ecuador's
banana exports, as a result of the leveling off of demand in high-income
countries and the rapid expansion of commercial production in the Far East.
The export of bananas through the Guayaquil port was 542,000 tons in 1974
and is expected to continue, with a tendency to decrease, at its present
level until 1979. After 1979, it is assumed that some port capacity expansion
would be available in Puerto Bolivar, as a result of which a gradual diversion
of banana traffic from Guayaquil would occur, further reducing its banana
exports to 465,000 tons in 1985.
20.       Cacao:  Exports of cacao and its products through Guayaquil totaled
49,000 tons, on the average, between 1970 and 1974. Although, in the last few
years, production has gone up as a result of new plantings, plant diseases
and poor cultivation practices could slow up the export capacity of Ecuador.
Export volumes are, therefore, expected to grow slowly during the next several
years (at an estimated rate of about 3-4%), reaching 73,000 tons by 1985.
21.       Coffee:  Ecuadorean exports of coffee beans and processed products
are estimated to increase at 5% annually. Coffee exports through Guayaquil
amounted to 30,200 tons in 1974 and are expected to increase at 5% annually
to 52,000 tons in 1985, thus maintaining Guayaquil's share of the coffee
exports among Ecuadorean ports.
22.       Sugar and Molasses:  The export of sugar through Guayaquil was
72,000 tons, on the average, in the last five years. These levels of export
were achieved as a result of a significant expansion of sugar production.
However, increasing domestic demand resulted in lower exports in 1974. Based
on estimates of slow increases of world consumption, but expanded domestic
production and consumption, it is expected that sugar exports through
Guayaquil would reach over 100,000 tons in 1985. This represents an increase
of 3% annually over 1973. Domestic consumption of molasses is today about
20% of total production, the balance being exported. With the expected
increase in sugar production in Ecuador, exports of molasses should increase
even faster, from 45,000 tons in 1974 to about 175,000 tons in 1985. This
implies an annual growth rate of about 13%.
23.       Other General Cargo:  Forecasts of general cargo exports, other
than bananas, cacao and coffee, are detailed by products in Table 4 of this
annex. On the aggregate, this cargo is expected to increase from 75,500 tons
in 1974 to about 204,000 tons in 1985, implying an annual growth rate of
over 9%. This high growth rate is in line with development of non-traditional
exports such as fish meal, fresh fruits, canned goods and other vegetable
products, including wood products, which are expected to capture an increasing
share of total exports.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
D.   Containers
24.       Traffic in containers has not been significant in Guayaquil and
has not increased in the last few years. In 1974, some 30,000 tons in
4,490 containers (2,437 inbound and 2,053 outbound) were handled at Guayaquil.
However, because of the inability of importers to clear customs at inland
terminals, the incentive to containerize is limited.
25.       Nevertheless, with expected simplification of customs procedures,
planned road improvements and the proposed open berths designed for containers,
traffic in containers is expected to grow steadily after 1979. Based on con-
tainerizable traffic, tonnages in containers are expected to increase as
follows:
(000 tons)
1979     1982      1985
IMPORTS
Containerizable traffic                   385      499       630
Tonnages in containers                     30       123      250
EXPORTS
Containerizable traffic                   171      219       276
Tonnages in containers                     30        92      175
TOTAL
Containerizable Traffic                   556      718       906
Tonnages in containers                     60      215       425
26.       In the export traffic shown above, which is expected to be container-
izable, bananas are excluded. Because of the strong labor opposition, it is
not likely that the shipping lines will provide the large capital investment
in refrigerated containers required to containerize a significant proportion
of the banana traffic, at least in the foreseeable future.
November 1975



ECUADOR                                     AN=  8
APPRILSAL O0 A   OMO     (UAZUTI  P(3? PE)JI
Freight Traffic 1970-74 by Type of Cargo
(Thousand Metric Tons)
IORTS
Commodity                                              Actual
1970       1971        1972       1973        1974
General Cargo
Fertilizers                               50.5       39.8        53.2        96.6     114.8
Oils and Fats                             21.6       26.2        35.5        23.1      28.6
Other Common Metals and
Metal Products                         29.0       26.8        26.3        27.5      42.3
Oats                                       -          5.1         8.6        12.8      14.5
Barley                                     5.1        -           5.5         3.2      10.4
Textile Fibers and Products               10.0       15.2        13.7       16.7       17.2
Iron and Steel                            97.9       99.0        95.4      120.1      191.8
Farm Machinery (tractors)                  2.7        3.7         3.4         5.1      13.0
Machinery and Equipment                    6.o       12.6        22.1        17.4      24.9
Paper and Products                        42.5       37.4        22.3        35.6      32.
Paint and Products                         8.4        9.3         8.3        12.1      11.8
Chemical Products                         48.6       56.2        59.4       74.9       90.2
Spare Parts                                8.6        7.3         8.1         9.5      13.2
Transport Equipment                       17.0       15.6        16.4        24.2      36.6
Food,drink, tobacco,
vegetables (glucosa)                  6.2         9.8        10.3       13.3       19.3
Aluminum and Products                      1.4        1.4         1.5         1.8        3.4
Flour and Starch                           5.7        6.5         6.o         7.1       8.0
Other Consumer's Durables                  7.9        6.8         6.1         6.6       8.7
Other Construction Materials              11.8       10.5        10.8         8.3      13.6
Electric Materials                         4.7        5.5         4.3         4.7        5.8
Miscellaneous                             34.3         9.3       10.2        12.9       12.9
Sub-total  419.9       404.0       427.4      533.5      713.2
Liquid Bulk
Asphalt                                   20.3       17.6        11.5        36.7       28.3
Petroleum Products                        31.0       51.7        35.9        36.o       42.6
Sub-total   51.3        69.3        47.4       72.7       70.9
Dry Bulk
Cement                                     9.6        8.5        13.4        21.4       44.9
Wheat                                     67.6       90.6       116.1       137.9      146.2
Other Cereals                             18.7        8.6         0.5        20.1       19.2
Sub-total   95.9       107.7       130.0      179.4      210.3
TOTAL  567.1       581.0       604.8      785.6      994.4
Source: Guayaquil Port Authority
March 1975



ANNEX 8
Table 2
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SEOOND (OUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Freight Traffic 1970-1974 by e e of Cargo
(Thousand Met;ric Tons)
EXPORTS
Commodity                1970      1971       1972      1973       1974
General Cargo
Coffee                     24.0      21.0       24.0      43.7       30.2
Sugar                      85.6      77.6       90.2      72.7       36.2
Balsa Wood                  5.8       6.3        7.1       8.1        8.7
Bananas                   660.3     55,5.9     520.5     479.5      542.0
Cacao and Products         38.5      51.6       48.6      33.4       72.9
Textile Fibers              1.0       1.6        2.7       4.7        7.9
Fish & Fish Meal!!          3.1       2.9        3.9       4.2       10.7
Plantains                   1.4       4.9       10.0      12.2       14.1
Fruits                      2.0       3.4        2.7       1.9        2.2
Other Vegetable Products   9.1       11.1        8.6       8.5       20.7
Canned Goods                1.3       1.3        3.1       4.4        3.6
Miscellaneous               7.0       4.8        7.5      15.4        7.6
Sub-total 839.8     742.6      729.0     688.6      756.8
Liquid Bulk
Molasses                   38.o      53.9       35.1      62.1       45.0
Sub-total  38.0       53.9      35.1       62.1      45.0
Total 877.8     796.5      764.1     750.7      801.8
1/  Fish meal starting 1974.
Source: Guayaquil Port Authority
March 1975



ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAOAUIL PORT PRCJECT
Forecasts of Freight Traffic 1975-1985
(Thousand Metri2 Tons)
IMPORTS
Commodity Li
1973      1974      1975      1976      177        1978      1979      1980       1981      1982      1983       1984      1985
Oeneral Cargo
Fertilizers                            96.6    114.8    116.0       124.0    132.0       143.0     154.o     170.0      190.0      10.0      10.0       10.0      10.0
Oils and Fats                          23.1      28.6      32.0      33.0      34.o       36.o      19.0      20.0       22.0      23.0      25.0      26.0       29.0
Other Common Metals and
Metal Products                     27.5      42.3      43.0      45.0      49.0      53.0       58.0      65.0       56.o      58.0      61.0      66.o       72.0
Oaty                                   12.8      14.5      15.0      16.0      17.0      19.0                             -         -              -
Barley                                  3.2      1o.4      10.0      11.0      ll.D       12.0                                 -                                   -
Textile Fibers and Products           16.7       17.2      18.0      19.0      20.0      20.0       21.0      21.0       22.0      22.0      22.0      23.0       f3.0
Iron and Steel LA                    120.1    191.8    205.0        230.0    270.0      340.0      420.0     490.0      375.0     425.0     475.0     520.0    680.0
Farm Machinery                          5.1      13.0      17.0      20.0      23.0       25.0      26.0      28.0      29.0       30.0      31.0      32.0       33.0
Machinery and Equipment                17.4      24.9      28.0      32.0       37.0      44.o      52.0      62.0       76.o      89.0     104.0    115.0       130.0
Paper and Products (boxes)             35.6      32.2      34.0      36.o      38.0       40.0      43.0      45.0       47.0      50.0      52.0       55.0      58.0
Paint and Products                     12.1      11.8      13.0      14.0      15.0      16.0       17.0      18.0       18.0      19.0      20.0      20.0       21.0
Chemical Products                     74.9       90.2    103.0    114.0    124.0        132.0    108.0       116.0     120.0 -   128.0      134.0     140.0      147.0
Spare Parts (machine & vehicle)        9.5       13.2      15.0      17.0      20.0      24.o       28.o      32.0       37.0      42.0      47.0      52.0       58.0
Transport Equipment                   24.2       36.6      38.0      40.0      43.0      48.o       54.o      61.0      70.0       80.0      92.0    104.0      118.o
Food, drink, tobacco and
vegetable products                13.3       19.3      19.0      20.0      21.0      23.0       24.o      26.o      28.0       30.0      32.0      35.0       38.0
Aluminum and Products                   1.8       3.4       4.o       4.o       4.0        5.0       6.o       7.0        8.o       9.0      11.0      13.0       15.0
Flour and Starch                       7.1        8.o       8.0       8.o       8.0       8.o        8.0       8.0        7.0       7.0       7.0       6.o        6.0
Other Consumer's Durables              6.6        8.7      10.0      11.0      11.0      12.0       12.0      12.0       12.0      12.0      12.0      12.0       13.0
Other Construction Materials            8.3      13.6      14.0      15.0      16.0      18.0       19.0      21.0       23.0      25.0      27.0      29.0       32.0
Electric Materials                      4.7       5.8       6.0       6.0       7.0       8.o        9.0      10.0       11.0      13.0      15.0      17.0       20.0
Miscellaneous                          12.9      12.9      14.0      15.0      17.0      19.0       22.0      24.0       27.0      30.0      34.0      37.0       42.0
Sub-total 533.5    712.9    762.0    830.0    917.0   1,045.0  1,100.0   1,236.0   1,178.0   1,102.0   1,211.0   1,312.0   1,545.0
Liquid Bulk
Oils and Fats                           -         -         -         -         -                   19.0      20.0       21.0      23.0      24.o      26.0       29.0
Asphalt                                36.7      28.3      30.0      33.0      3E.0       39.0      42.0      45.0       47.0      50.0      52,0       55.0      60.0
Petroleum Products                     36.o      42.6      48.o      53.0      46.o      39.0       45.o      50.0       50.0      50.0      50.0      50.0       50.0
Chemical Products                      _    -          -         -         -              -         35.0      38.0      40.0       42.0      44.o      46.o       48.o
Sub-total  72.7      70.9       78.0      86.o      82.0      78.0    141.0      153.0      158.0    165.0      170.0      177 0     187 0
Dry Bulk
Fertilizers /3                         -          _ -       -         -                    -       120.0     130.0     140.0       20.0      25.0      35.0       50.0
Oats                                   _          _         _         _                    -        20.0      22.0       23.0      25.0      27.0      28.0       30.0
Barley                                           1-         -              -              -          4.0      15.0       16.0      18.0      20.0       22.0      24.o
Cement                                 21.4      44.9      64.o      80.0    10C.0       20.0       20.0      20.0       20.0      20.0      20.0       -          -
Wheat                                137.9    146.2       158.0     170.0    185.0      204.0      220.0     240.0      260.0    280.0      305.0     325.0      350.0
Other Cereals                         20.1       19.2      10.0      10.0      1C.O      10.0       10.0      10.0      10.0       10.0      10.0      10.0       10.0
Sub-total 179.4    210.3      232.0     260.0    29E.0       234.0      284.0    307.0     329.0      373.0    407.0       420.0    464.o
Total 785.6    994.4   1,072.0   1,176.0   1,29'.o   1,357.0   1,525.0   1,696.0   1,665.0   1,640.0   1,788.0  1.909.0   2,196.0
1 Assuming Port project is fully operational in 1979.                                                                                                                       '
Assuming proposed Steel mifll would be operational in l9ol.
Assumed proposed fertilizer plant would be oper4t1onal in 1982.
Source: Mission estimates
March l975



ECUADOR
APPRAIaAL OF A 57COMD GAYAQUIL PORT PROjECT
Forecasts of Freight Traf'ic -175-1985
(Thousand Metric Tons).1
EXO0RTS
Commodity                        1973      1974      1975      1976       1977      1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983      1984        1955
General Cargo
Balsa Wood                             8.1       8.7       9.0        9.0      10.0      10.0       11.0      11.0      12.0       12.0      13.0       13.0       14.0
Bananas                              479.5     542.0      588.0    56.K0     545.0     540.0      535.0     510.0     495.o      h85.o     475.o     470.0       465.0
Cacao and Products                    33.4      72.9       50.0      52.0      53.0      55.0       57.0      60.0      62.0       65.0      68.0       70.0       73.0
Coffee                                43.7      30.2       31.0      33.0      34.0      36.0       38.0      40.0      43.0       45.0      48.o       50.0       52.0
Textile Fibers                         4.7       7.9       8.0        9.0      10.0      11.0       13.0      15.0      17.0       19.0      21.0       24.o       26.0
Fish and Fish Meal                     4.2      10.7      11.0       12.0      11.0      14.n       1S400 n   I rR 0 o              0        22.0       24.0       25.0
Plantains                             12.2      14.1       14.0      15.0      16.0      17.0       18.0      20.0       21.0      23.0       25.0      26.0        28.o
Fruits                                 1.9       2.2        3.0       3.0       4.0       5.0        6.o       8.0        9.0      10.0      11.0       12.0       14.o
Other Vegetable Products               8.5      20.7       14.0      14.0      15.0      16.0       17.0      18.0       20.0      22.0       25.0      29.0       32.0
Canned Goods                           4.4       3.6        4.o       5.0       6.0       7.0        9.0      11.0       13.0      15.0      17.0       19.0       21.0
Miscellaneous                         15.4       7.6       10.0      12.0      15.0       17.0      20.0      24.0       27.0      31.0       35.0      39.0        44.0
Sub-total 615.9     720.6    702.0       712.0     721.0     728.0      739.0     733.0      737.0     747.0      760.0     776.0      794.0
Liquid Bulk
Molasses                              62.1      45.0       52.0      60.o      70.0      81.0       94.0     106.O      120.0     132.0      146.0     160.0       175,0
Sub-total  62.1      45.0       52.0      60.o      70.0      81.0       94.0     106.0      120.0     132.0      146.o     160.0       175.0
Dry Bulk
Sugar                                 72.7      36.2       75.0      77.0      80.0       82.0      84.0      87.0       90.0      92.0       95.0      98.0      101.0
Sub-total  72.7      36.2       7$.0      77.0      80.0       82.0      84.0      87.0       90.0      92.0       95.0      96.0      101.0
TOTAL 750.7     801.8      829.0     849.u     871.0      891.0     917.0     926.0      947.0     971.0  1,O01.0   1,034.0    1,070.0
Source: Miesion EItimat.s .s
March 1975



ANNEX 9
Page 1
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1         The calculation of the Economic Return (ER) involved three important
steps: (a) allocation of traffic to the project; (b) quantification of project
benefits; and (c) distribution of project benefits between the Ecuadorean
economy and other beneficiaries. The procedures are summarized in the follow-
ing paragraphs.
A.  Allocation of Traffic to the Project
2.        As mentioned in Annex 8 on the traffic forecasts, port traffic
is handled at a number of private installations in the river and channel as
well as at GPA's wharves. The principal installations other than GPA wharves
are Fertisa's wharf in the channel where fertilizer is handled, Noboa wharves
in the river (handling banana exports and grain imports) and Molinos del
Ecuador, also in the river (handling grain imports principally).
3.        Table 1 of this annex shows the tonnages of cargo handled at GPA
wharves and private installations in 1974 and Bank estimates for the years
1975, 1976 to 1978 (the project construction period) and the years 1980,
1982 and 1985, to illustrate the expected location of cargo handling after
the project is completed.
4.        In order to reduce ship waiting time, it has been assumed that an
increasing amount of banana traffic (rising from an estimated 90,000 tons
in 1975 to 290,000 tons in 1978) will be loaded from barges rather than use
the GPA wharves. This is the cheapest alternative. Also, annual banana
traffic at private river installations is expected to increase to 50,000 tons
during the construction period. After the proposed project is fully operational
(1980), banana traffic will again be concentrated at GPA wharves.
5.        Traffic handled at the proposed bulk terminal will consist of all
sugar and molasses exports, edible oils (oils and fats) and a part of grain
imports (wheat, oats, barley and other cereals).
6.        At present, some two-thirds of grain imports (about 124,000 tons)
are imported by Noboa and Molinos del Ecuador through their own port installa-
tions. They also import some 40,000 tons through their installations for
other wheat companies. When the new bulk pier and terminal are completed,
it is expected that all the grain imports of the Sierra group will be through
the new installation. Noboa and Molinos del Ecuador are expected to continue
to use their existing piers for part of their grain imports and the new bulk
terminal for the rest in order to take advantage of the bigger ships which
will be able to use the new bulk pier (and obtain the consequent transport



ANNEX 9
Page 2
savings). It was assumed that they would use their own installations up
to the present levels of utilization for their own traffic (i.e., 124,000 tons).
This will be roughly their capacity after allowing for the growth of other
traffic (asphalt, chemicals) between now and 1979.
B.   Quantification of Project Benefjits
(M) General
7.        The project was split into two elements, the general cargo wharves
and the bulk terminal pier, and each was justified separately. Each project
element caters to a certain, distinguishable share of port traffic, which is
transported in different type ships, and the project benefits are different
for each kind of traffic.
8.        In the case of the bulk terminal pier, project benefits consist,
principally, of savings in freight costs due to the use of larger bulk carriers
which will be able to call at Guayaquil. Moreover, and especially, in the
case of sugar and molasses, which, at present, are lightered from barges to
ships in the river, savings in cargo-handling costs and in reduced ship
service time will be significant.
9.        These benefits (less estimated maintenance costs for the bulk
terminal) were estimated and discounted against the capital costs. In the
analysis, it was found that the single bulk berth soon had a relatively high
occupancy rate and, although the arrival of bulk ships can be planned to some
extent, it became clear that an additional bulk berth will become necessary
by about 1985-1986 without any significant additional investment in silos,
etc. If an additional berth is built, it will provide capacity (at forecast
traffic growth rates) until about 1999. Costs and benefits were discounted
over this period (i.e., 1976-1999).
10.       In the case of the general cargo berths, project benefits consist
principally of savings in ship turnarDund time, savings from avoiding light-
erage of banana traffic and of diverting traffic to other ports. There will
also be some savings in the costs of .2andling containers (and, to a lesser
extent, general cargo) at the new berths.
11.       Based on 1974 operations at GPA wharves, ship service and waiting
time were simulated using a computer nodel developed in the Bank. Operations
were simulated again for a number of years with and without the project to
estimate savings in ship waiting time due to the project.
(ii) Bulk Berth
12.       Table 2 of this annex shows the estimated utilization of the proposed
bulk pier for the years 1980, 1984 ancL 1985. Tons per ship-hour are expected
to increase, as shown in 1984-1985, as experience with operating the terminal
is obtained and utilization increases.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
13.       Table 3 of this annex shows the size of ships now used for wheat,
sugar, molasses, and vegetable oil and the sizes which will call at the new
bulk terminal. Also shown are costs per ship day at sea and in port and the
savings per ton in freight and in reduced turnaround in port. Cargo-handling
costs with and without the project were, in turn, estimated as follows:
US$ per ton
With Project      Without Project
Grain                             1.60                2.80
Sugar                            0.80                12.00
MJblasses                         0.20                2.40
Vegetable oils                    0.20                2.00
Present handling costs were obtained from the grain importers and from a 1974
feasibility study for a private sugar and molasses terminal carried out by the
consultants Tate & Lyle. Costs with the project were estimated by Bank staff
(grain), and Tate & Lyle estimates were used for sugar, molasses and vegetable
oils.
(iii) General Cargo Berths
14.       An estimate was made of the utilization of berths without the pro-
ject. Because of the present-serious delays to shipping and the surcharges
imposed by the conferences, it was assumed that every effort would be made
to keep the occupancy rate below the existing level of 85%. To achieve this,
it was assumed that all banana traffic would be handled from lighters since
this is the cheapest alternative; there are sufficient barges, and labor and
ship service time are not increased. The only costs are additional handling
charges from double handling of bananas, some barge costs and increased damage
from double handling. Also, it was assumed that some general cargo traffic
would be diverted to Manta, as is happening at present. Based on port capacity
there and its own traffic, it was estimated that a maximum of 200,000 tons
could be diverted to Manta port (Table 4 of this annex).
15.       An estimate was also made of the utilization of the general cargo
berths without the project. Table 5 of this annex gives the utilization figures
with the project, based on the following assumptions:
(a)  general cargo will be handled at 800 tons per ship day.
This reflects an improvement of 17% over existing rates;
the reasons for this improvement are discussed in
paragraph 3.18 of the report;
(b)  bananas will be handled at 1,300 tons per ship day --
a very modest improvement of 4% over the present rate;
(c)  containers are handled at 285 a day (15 per working hour).
Although higher rates can eventually be expected, this is
considered reasonable under the expected conditions of
operation in Guayaquil port. The basis for calculating
the number of containers is given in Table 6 of this annex;
and



ANNEX 9
Page 4
(d) tons per ship are expected to increase in line with recent
trends and as traffic increases from 1,270 tons per ship
(general cargo) in 1974 to 2,150 tons in 1985 and from
1,200 to 1,300 tons for banana ships.
Based on these assumptions, the occupancy rate of the general cargo berths
was estimated as follows for seven, eight and nine berths (the existing five
plus two, three or four to be constructed):
1979      1981       1983       1985
7 berths                72        73         80         94
8 berths                63        64         70         82
9 berths                56        57         62         73
16.       On the basis of these assumptions, ship waiting time was estimated
with and without the project, and savings in ship time were estimated.  Bene-
fits from avoiding lighterage of bananas were also estimated, based on data
obtained from banana exporters, and savings from avoiding diversion of
traffic to Manta were calculated (principally land transport costs) -- for
the cargo that is destined to Guayaquil (50%) -- since port costs are about
the same in Guayaquil and Manta). linally, savings in container traffic at
the new facilities were estimated. The savings come from lower handling
costs per ton and the resulting lower ship service time. No savings were
included for reduced damage and piliferage on containerized traffic, although
such savings will probably be significant. Details are shown in Table 7 of
this annex.
C.   Distribution of Project Benefits
17.       The project investment will result in considerable benefits, all
of which have not been allocated to the project in the calculation of the
ER. Only those direct benefits which are quantifiable and attributable to
the Ecuadorean economy have been included, while benefits to other (foreign)
beneficiaries have been excluded.
18.       Benefits which are readily identified as attributable to the
Ecuadorean economy represent:
(a) savings in cargo-hanclling costs in the project ports;
(b) savings in ship waiting time and ship service time costs of
Ecuadorean flag vessels and ships chartered by Ecuadorean ship-
ping companies or other Ecuadorean interests, which would carry
about 55% of the total bulk freight and 50% of the total general
cargo;
(c) savings in lighterage costs; and
(d) savings in costs of traffic diversion to other ports.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
19.       The extent to which the Ecuadorean economy will benefit from savings
accruing to vessels (savings in ship waiting and service time) arising from
the project will depend on the type of service involved. For the carriage
of large volumes of bulk freight, about 30% of the sugar exports will be
carried in vessels owned or chartered by Ecuadorean interests, as will be 30%
of the molasses exports, 65% of vegetable oil imports and over 90% of grain
(mostly wheat) imports. For the carriage of bananas, about 75% will be carried
in specialized liner vessels, of which about 20% will be under Ecuadorean flag
or lease, and the rest will be carried in chartered ships, of which about one-
half will be by Ecuadorean interests.
20.       General cargo and containers will be carried to a large extent in
liner vessels (80% of total) and the rest in charter ships and some tramp
vessels. Based on the active participation of Ecuadorean interests in shipping
(near 25% of general cargo at present) and on the recent decisions by the
Government to drastically increase their participation in the near future (by
the fast growing fleet of the newly created, state-owned, Transnave shipping
company and the recent Government decree (Ley de Reserva de Carga) establishing
that up to 50% of all import and export cargo should be carried under Ecuado-
rean flag), it is estimated that up to 50% of general cargo will be carried
in vessels owned, leased or chartered by Ecuadorean interests during the 1980's.
21.       The above distribution implies that, on an average basis, between
50% and 55% of the savings in current costs to vessels will accrue to the
Ecuadorean economy. Benefits arising from savings in additional costs in the
future represented by foreign liner service surcharges or longer charter times
which would result if the project were not undertaken will, of course, accrue
fully to the Ecuadorean economy. These benefits, however, in view of the lack
of clearly defined causality relationships, 1/ have not been included in the
analysis. For the same reasons of uncertainty, the recouping of part of the
foreign vessel benefits through revisions in the port charges has not been
included in the analysis.
D.   Economic Return
22.       Inasmuch as the benefits stated above have not been included in the
economic analysis, the economic return of the project has been conservatively
understated. The project, however, even on this conservative base, is well
justified, with an ER of 14%. The bulk terminal pier shows an ER of 12% and
the three general cargo berths, 16% (para. 5.17).
23.       An ER based on the estimated benefits to the Ecuadorean economy plus
those accruing to foreign interests results in a considerably higher return
(16% for the bulk pier, 24% for the general cargo berth, and 21% for the whole
project).
1/   Since surcharges and charter costs appear to be a function of the general
state of the shipping business and other ports at the time, as much as of
the particular port situation involved.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
24.       The investment cost used in the economic evaluation excluded con-
tingencies for price escalation, is net of direct taxes and duties and repre-
sents, therefore, a true economic cost. Sensitivity analyses of changes in
these costs, as well as in the benefits, have been carried out, showing that
the ER, even under adverse circumstances, still remains at U to 13%, which
is acceptable (Table 3 of text).
25.       A marginal analysis for the third and fourth general cargo berths
was made, as a result of which the proposed three-berth expansion was found
fully justified (para. 5.16). However, and because of the difficulty in
forecasting the rate at which traffic will be containerized, a calculation
was made of the optimum size of the project from the point of view of port
capacity, if container traffic deve:Loped at a faster rate, as follows:
Container Traffic                       (Thousand Tons)
1979     1982    1985
Best estimate                          60       215      425
Alternate estimate                     120      430      850
26.       If container traffic did develop at a rate twice as fast as the
best estimate, the third general cargo berth would not be needed until 1983,
that is, only three years after the expected completion date of the proposed
project. Although some savings would be derived under these traffic assump-
tions if the third berth is postpone-d (estimated on the order of US$500,000
a year), the potential losses, on the other hand, if the higher level of
container traffic does not develop, are substantial (up to US$1.8 million in
1983). Moreover, the likelihood of the higher level of container traffic is
considered by the mission to be less than the likelihood that the lower level
of container traffic will develop. Therefore, the construction of three berths
now is fully justified.
November 1975    (Final results in paragrapihs 22 and 23 reflect updating costs
and benefits to March 1976,)



ECUADOR
APPRMAISLL OF A BECOiD OOArAqUIL PORT PIOJIT
Allocation of Treftic Forecrsts to Part Failitie  with Prewod Pj etct
(Thouand of tor)
197.       1975        1976        1977        1978        IqRo        1982       1905
Pr  l"SFrB            (with proposed exp-io-)
RLEana.as                                   I446.4       40B.0      308.0       205.0       200.0       475.0       bSo.0       430,0
Otbar - OCiaral Cargo                        179                    i64o        176.0       188.0       2           262.0       3
Ilports
-7wral Cargo                                 63o.o       676.0       753.0        5b.0       890.0    l.106.0    1.102.0    1.545,0
TOTAL (A)                                  1,255.8    1,238.0    1,225.0    1,235-0    1,27P.0    1,i0ho.0    1,8b.0          2,30b,0
B. Proposed New Bulk Pier
942tar                                                                                                   87.0        92.0       101.0
Suars                                                                                                   106.0       13?.0       175. 0
Iwts
at, cats, barley, other cereals                                                                         163.0       709.0       290.0
Oile and fats                                                                                            20.0        23.0        as.o
02TAL (B)                                                                                               376.0       456.0       595.0
TorAL Port Authority Wharves (A * B)             B 551 71                                                                     7
C. Port AutUitty Bk0Y3 (lighterage)
BDnusaa                                       52.1        0.0      150.0       250.0       250.0
TOTAL at Port Authority (A.B.C)            1,307.9    1,288.0    1,375.0    1,485.0    1,528.0    2,180.0         2,270.0     2,899.0
D. Private IstAllatl ns
(i) Private  ?rves
ft4orts
7Naas                                         32.1        50.0        50.0        50.0        50.0        35.o        35.0       35.0
El %tiliUer                                   98.0       100.0       105.0       11o.0       120.0       130.0        20.0        50.0
Wat, oats, barley, other cereals        16b.3       168.0       180.0       198.0       214.0       124.0       1lh.0      2lib.O
Petroleu produts              b           o.6        48.o        53.0        46.0        3Q.0        5D.o        50.0        50.0
Aspbalt                                  27.6        30.0        33.0        36.0        39.0        bS.o        50.0        60.0
Chicala                                  13.0        20.0        22.0        23.0        25.o        38.0        42.0        b8.0
Other                                    20.1          .0        30.0        3.0         30.0        20.0        20.0        -
Total (i)                          IYw,7    b     U-   4 73.0430I L2,3h0
(ii)  aver (itaras)                                                                                                                                    aZ
Ban                                      11,4 ~   4*0 0          40.0        400 D       40,0        _           _           _ -
sowr                                     36.2        75.0        77.0        80.0        82.0        -           -           -
Molasmes                     jQ~~~~~~~~5.  52.0        60.0        70.0        81.0        ---
Total (ii)                          92 6       1670        1770        190 0       2                                    -
aAKD TOTAL (A.B-C.D)                            1,796.2    1,901.0      2,025.0     2,168.0     2,2b8.0    2,622.0    2,611.0       3,266.0
Source: XLesion estimates
Septeubor 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 2
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Utilization of Proposed Bulk Pier
1980    1982      1984     1985
Sugar - tons (000)                        87       92        98      101
tons per ship hour               160      160      175      175
tons per ship day              3,200    3,200    3,500    3,500
ship days                         27       29       28        29
Molasses - tons (000)                    106      132       160      175
tons per ship hour            125      125      135      135
tons per ship day           2,500    2,500    2,700    2,700
ship days                      42       53       59       65
Wheat and Cereals - tons (000)           183      209       261      290
- tons per ship hour            160      160      175      175
tons per ship day           3,200    3,200    3,500    3,500
ship days                      57       65       75       83
Oils and Fats - tons (000)                20       23        26       29
- tons per ship hour            125      125      125       125
tons per ship day           2,500    2,500    2,500    2,500
ship days                       8        9       10        12
Total Ship Days                          134      156       172      189
Berth occupancy                           37       43        48       53
Source: YMission estimates
September 1975



= 9
Table 3
E!CUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Proposed Bulk Pier
Calculation of Freight Savings Per Ton
Cost per                     Freight Gost
Ship Day     Number of         Per Ton
Comnodity                               Size of Ships       at Sea     Days at Sea          US$
A. At Sea                                        DeT              us$
Iheat
Without project                              7,500          5,500            10              7.33
With project                                25,000          9,500            10              3.80
Savings                                                                                3.53
Sugar
Without project                              7,500          5,500            10              7.33
With project                                25,000          9,500            10             3.80
Savings                                                                                3.53
Molasses
Without project                              7,500          5,500            10             7.33
With project                                25,000          9,500            10              3.80
Savings                                                                                3.53
Vegetable oil
WJithout project                            12,000          8,300            -                -
Ilith project                               12,000          8,300            -                -
Savings
Cost per
Ship Day     Number  of      Port Ship Costs
Size of Ships      in Port     Days in Port         Per Ton
B. In Port
Wheat
ITithout project                             7,500          4,000             6              3.20
With project                                25,000          7,500             8              2.40
Savings                                                                                0.80
Sgr
Without project                              7,500          4,000            12              6.40
With project                                25,000          7,500             8              2.40
Savings                                                                                4.0)0
Molasses
WIithout projeet                             7,500          4,000             6              3.20
With projent                                25,000          7,500            10              3.00
Savings                                                                                C.20
Vegetable oil
Without project                             12,000          6,200            1l-
lith project                                12,000          6,200             4.8            2.50
Savings
C. Total Savings from Ship Turnaround Rteduction (A + B)                           M  Per Ton
Wheat (grains)                                                                   4.33
Sugar                                                                            7.53
Molasses                                                                         3.T3
Vegetable oil                                                                    5 .*5
Source: Mission Estimates
Soptember 1975



ECUld)CR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUII. PORT PROJECT
General Cargo Berths
Berth Utilization Without Pro,ject
1.980     19B1       1982       1983       1984
Trafric (Thousand Tons)
:General. Cargo:
Imports                                 1,106      1,038     1,102      1,211      1,312
axports                                   733        737        747       760        777
1,83*9 1,775         1,849      1,971      2,089
Deduct:
Bananas (loaded from barges)              510        495        485       475        470
Traffic diverted to Manta                 100        100        200       200        200
610,   95      675          675       67-0
Total traffic handled at general
ca.Lrgo wharves:                          1,229      1,180      1,164     1,296      1,419
Berth days required (at 800 tons
per ship day):                            1,536      1,475      1,455      1,620     1,774
Occupancy rate of GPA wharves                   85%       82%        81%        90%        99%
HLoI
(D >-4
Source:  M4ission estimates
Septernber 1975



ANNE7 9
ECUADOR
APPRAISaL 0  A SECID GUATAQIL  ORT PEOJICT
(irneral Cargo Berths
Barth Utilisation with Project
1974          195O          1981          1982          1983          1984          1985
A. Traffic (Thousand tore)
Osne ral Cargo
Imports                                          630         1,106         1,038         1,102         1,211         1,312         1,545
Exports                                          626           698           702           712           725           7)j?          759
Deduct
Banannaa                                         447           475           460           b50           b4i0          435           h30
Container traffic                             general          100           150           215           270           34o0          b ?2
2LW           -;5    _M                                  75571
TOTAL Break-bulk cargo
(excluding bananas)                                 809         1.229         1,130            i16                       _1.29            44_9
B. Berth Days Required (per year)
GerA'al Cargo Operationa
Ship days (at 800 tons per ship
day from 1980)                             1,18L          1,536         1,413         1,436         1,533         1,599         1, 11
Banana Operatiorns
Handled at berths (Thousand toz.)                447           475           b60           h50           440           435           1j30
Ship days (at 1,300 tmns per ship day
from 1980) - tone (000's)                    356           365           354           346           338           335           331
Container Operations
Number of container's                          Handled      16,200        23,,00        31,914        3Q,000        b9,0oo        61,666
Ship days (285 ccntainers per                  as gen.
ship day)                                  cargo            57            R2           112           137           173           216
TGTAL Ship Days                                     1,536         1,058         1,849         1,809          2,008         2,107         P,35R
C. Berth Bays Available (per year)
With 7 berths                                                2.520         2,520         2,520         2,520         2.520          2,520
With 8 berths                                                2,880         2,880         2,980         2,880         2,88o         2,880
With 9 berths                                                3,240         3,2I60        3,240          3,260         3,240         3,2bC
Occupancy rate (S) 7 berths                       (85% for            78            73            75            80            R4            91
8 berths                         5               68            64            66            70             73            R2
9 berths                       berths)           60            57            58            62             65            7?
/1   At 686 tons per ship day.
Source:  Mission Estimates
September 1975



ANNEX 9
Taole 6
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Calculation of Number of Containers
Years 1979, 1902 and 1985
1979       1982       1985
Import tonnage in containers                30,000     123,000    250,000
Tons per container                              10          10         10
Number of containers                         3,000      12,300     25,000
Percentage available for export ca:rgo          70          70         70
Number of containers available for
export cargo                               2,100       8,610     17,500
Export tonnage in containers                30,000      92,000    175,000
Tons per container                               7.5         7.5         7.5
Number of containers                         4,000      12,267      23,333
Number of containers available fromr
import cargo                               2,100       8,610     17,500
Balance needed for export cargo              1,900       3,657       5,833
Summary
Total number of containers in:
loaded                                 3,000      12,300     25,000
empty                                  1,900       3,657      5,833
4,900      15,957     30,833
Total n.umber of containers out:
loaded                                 4,000      12,267     23,333
empty                                   9g0        3,699       7,500
4,900      15,957     30,833
Total containers handled                     9,800      31,914      61,666
Source: Mission estimates
September 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 7
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Proposed General Cargo Berths
Project Benefits
(Cost Savings, in Thousand US$)
1980          1981           1982          1983           1984
Additional Costs of Lightering Bananas
Additional tons lightered (000's)                 320           310            300            300           290
Additional costs (at US$3/ton)                    960           930            900            900           870
Additional Ship Waiting Time
Estimated ship waiting time without
project (days)                                  800           600            550          1,150         2,700
Estimated ship waiting time with
project (days)                                  100            65             67            130           216
Difference                                        700           535            483          1,020         2,484
Savings (at an average of USP6,200
per ship day)                                4,340          3,320          2,946          6,324        15,400
Additional Ship Service Time (general
cargo.ships)
Ship days without project (including
traffic diverted to Manta)                    1,661         1,600          1,705          1,870         2,024
Ship days with project                          1,593         1,495          1,548          1,670         1,772
Difference                                         68           105            157            200           252
Savings (at an average of US$6,200
per ship day)                                   422           651            973          1,240         1,562
Additional Container Handling Costs
Tons handled in containers (000's)                100           150            215            270           340
Savings (at US$2 per ton)                         200           300            430            540           680
Costs of Diverting Traffic to Manta
Tons div-rt-ei to Mante                           100           100            200            200            200
Costs (at US$6 per ton, only 1/2 of
tons diverted incurring this cost)              300           300            600            600           600
TOTAL BENEFITS                                       6,222         5,501          5,849          9,604        19,112
Source: Mission estimates
SeptembPr 1975



ANNEX 10
Page 1
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Tar iffs
A.   Present Situation
Tariff Structure
1.        GPA provides all port services except stevedoring.  Charges levied
by GPA are mainly port dues and charges on imports and exports. These charges
are calculated on a ton/volume basis. The tariff structure provides for a
great number of preferential rates and has no apparent relationship to costs
(Table 1 of this annex). General cargo imports pay S/ 144.00 per ton, while
bagged cereals pay S/ 60.00 per ton. Banana exports pay, on the average,
S/ 10.00 per ton, while sugar exports pay S/ 25.00 per ton.
2.        Port dues and certain other charges are paid by the shipping lines.
Import and export charges are levied on importers and exporters.
3.        The last modification of port dues and import charges was made in
March 1970; the latest change in export charges was made in January 1971.
Since Ecuador has gone through an inllationary process recently, the National
Ports Council approved, in November 11975, an increase in tariffs effective
January 1, 1976 to put the Guayaquil Port tariffs in line with those of other
west coast ports of South America.
Storage Charges
4.        Storage charges have been hIistorically low, and, as a result, the
port sheds and open storage have been used as cheap warehouses. In May 1975,
storage charges were doubled for periods longer than 30 days. Charges for
less than 30 days were not modified. GPA should revise its storage charges
as follows:
(a) The free storage time should be reduced from 10 to seven days.
(b) The Bank guarantee system for customs clearance should be
maintained.
(c) The new charges should be a-pplied on a daily basis and not on a
10-day period basis as at present.
(d) The storage rates should cover costs and be sufficiently above
commercial warehousing rates to encourage users to remove cargo
promptly from the port area.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
B.   New Tariff Increase
5.        In July 1974, GPA made a proposal to DIMERC for increasing tariffs.
The study was subsequently revised and approved by DIMERC and sent to the
National Ports Council. On January 15, 1975, the National Ports Council
sent the tariff proposal for comments to the most important Government
entities ("Frente Economico del Gobierno"); the Chamber of Commerce and other
port users also received copies. Since no observations had been received
from any of them, the National Ports Council approved, in November 1975, the
proposed tariff increases, effective January 1, 1976.
6.        The new tariff will increase GPA revenues by about 20-25%.
The tariff study was based on the existing tariff structure, and the new
tariff levels were determined by comparison with those of other Latin
American ports. The new tariff structure has no apparent relationship to
costs. However, when further increases in tariffs are introduced, which is
contemplated for 1980, the tariff structure will be based on the cost of the
services. This "cost of services" information will be available by the end
of 1976, at which time the proposed costing system will be operating.
7.        The highest percentage increase in the new tariff corresponds to
the dues paid by ships. On the other hand, banana export charges to shippers
have not been increased.  In Tables 1, 2, 3 of this annex, some examples of
key tariff items and percentages are stated.
March 1976



ANNEX 10
Table 1
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Ship Dues
(In Sucres)
Old         New           %
Rate        Rtate     Increase             Notes
1.01 Port Dues
General Cargo         50.0          70.0         40     Per ton/vol. of cargo
handled (2)
Oil, Cereals,
Fertilizers,
Sugar, Balsa         33.75 (1)    48.75 (1)   44       Per ton of cargo handled
Palletized Cargo      47.50         NA           NA     Per ton/vol. of cargo
handled (2)
Banana:
Terminal            33.75 (1)    43.75 (1)   30       Per ton of cargo handled
Outside Terminal   23.63 (1)    30.63 (1)   30        Per ton of cargo handled
1.02 Berthage
All ships in all
port areas
(terminal, river,    5.0           11.43       129%   Per feet of ship length
private)                                              and days of stay
(1)  Correspond to the most common case of 1,000-2,000 tons loaded/unloaded
per ship.
(2) Metric tons weight or cubic meters volume, whichever the higher up to a
1:3 weight/volume relationship.



ANNEX 10
Table 2
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Import Charges
(In Sucres)
Old     New       %
Rate    Rate   Increase                  Notes
1.01 Terminal
General Cargo:
General            144     150       4         Per ton/vol. of cargo handled (1)
Food and
Fertilizers        60      65       8         Per ton of cargo handled
Cement              90      90        -        Per ton of cargo handled
Bulk Cargo             90      95        6        Per ton of cargo handled
Palletized             NA     130        NA       Per ton/vol. ofecargo handled (1)
Containerized          NA     130       NA        Per ton/vol. of cargo handled (1)
Ro-Ro                  NA     120        NA       Per ton/vol. of cargo handled (1)
1.02 Outside Terminal
General Cargo:
General            120      NA       NA        Per ton/vol. of cargo handled (1)
Food and
Fertilizers        60      60        -        Per ton of cargo handled
Cement              60      70       17        Per ton of cargo handled
Bulk Cargo:
General             30      40       33        Per ton of cargo handled
Food and
Fertilizers        30      35        17       Per ton of cargo handled
(1)  Metric tons weight or cubic meters volume,  whichever the higher up to
a 1:3 weight/volume relationship.



ANNEX 10
Table -3
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUATAQUIL PORT PROJECT
Export Charges
(In Sucres per ton of Cargo)
Old         New                %
Rate        Rate           Increase
Using GPA Personnel             40           50              13
Not using GPA Personnel:
General                       25          30              20
Sugar and others out
of terminal                 15           30             100
Banana                       10           10



ANNEX 11
Page 1
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND GUAYAQUIL PORT PROJECT
GPA Financial Forecasts
A.   General
1.        The financial forecasts cover the construction period (1976-1979)
and the first year and one-half of operations of the new installations mid
1979-1980. Operating revenues are based on the traffic forecasts (Annex 8)
and on the adoption of the new tariff levels from January 1976. A further
tariff increase of 25% is assumed after project completion (January 1980).
2.        Operating expenses are based on an analysis of historical data,
on the basis of which operating costs were broken down between fixed and
variable costs. GPA contributions to the Ecuadorean Government (principally
DIMERC) are a percentage of GPA gross revenues as established by law. Since
GPA does not provide stevedoring services, stevedoring revenues and expenses
are not included in the financial forecasts.
3.        The exchange rate used was US$1 = S/ 25 (Sucres).
B.   Revenue Forecast
4.        Revenues were obtained by applying the proposed tariffs to the
traffic forecasts. The distribution of the cargo among the different facili-
ties was based on the 1974 allocation except that increased tonnages of
bananas are expected to be handled at private installations and from lighters
to reduce port congestion. This will be encouraged by the new tariff which
gives a 3.0% discount on port charges for bananas handled at installations
other than GPA wharves. After the project is completed in mid 1979, there
will be a shift of bulk cargo to GPA's new bulk terminal.
5.        Since there is no tariff for bulk grain handled at GPA wharves, the
rate levied for bulk grain handled at private facilities was used in the
forecasts as a conservative estimate.
6.        The tariffs provide for charging for general cargo by weight in
metric tons or by volume in cubic meters, whichever is higher, up to a 1:3
weight/volume relationship. Related revenues were increased per ton by 40%
to adjust for the volume factor, which is below the 50% historical average.
Containers are not considered separately since containerized general cargo
will pay approximately the same charge per ton as non-containerized general
cargo.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
7.        Ship dues include all charges made to shipping companies.  They
correspond principally to port dues, berthage, pilotage and various other
incidental charges. Ship dues were zalculated by applying to the cargo and
ship traffic forecast the corresponding tariffs. Berthage revenues were cal-
culated using the ship traffic forecast and estimates of tons handled per ship
per day for the various cargo types. For pilotage and other charges, the
revenue forecast was made using the ship traffic forecast and the historical
trend.
8.        Storage charges have been calculated using the new storage rates
adopted in mid 1975. Revenues have been calculated by multiplying the
average tons in storage times the yearly turnover times the average storage
rate. For the calculation of the average storage rate, a distribution func-
tion of the time that cargo stays in ports was estimated. The high level of
revenues in 1975 are the result of congestion and a substantial increase in
storage charges in that year.
9.        Port charges in Guayaquil are low relative to those in other ports
on the west coast of South America and the increase, to be put into effect in
January 1976, will bring them more closely into line with those in other ports.
A further increase in tariffs was not: projected until 1980 when the project
will be completed and operating efficiency is improved. An increase of at
least 25% (the amount projected) should be feasible to offset inflation and
to reflect the expected significant improvement in services.
Expense Forecasts
Personnel Costs
10.       Personnel numbers have increased significantly in the last two years
as follows:
Employees     Workers      Total
January, 1974                      384           445          829
January, 1975                      441           449          890
July, 1975                         534           515        1,049
September, 1975                    575           513        1,088
1975 Budget                        598           520        1,118
1976 Buget                         639           534        1,173
11i       Forecasts of personnel costs were based on nine months of actual
results for 1975 and the 1976 budget. For the years 1976-1979, personnel
numbers are not expected to increase; however, when the project is finished,
a 5% increase in workers was forecast to handle cargo in the new bulk terminal.
The number of employees is already considered ample and no increase in their
numbers was forecast. Moreover, incr,eases in cargo-handling efficiency now



ANNEX 11
Page 3
being studied by consultants and improvements due to increased unitization of
cargo are expected to permit the handling of traffic growth forecast through
1980 with the existing number of workers.
12.       Increases in unit personnel costs are expected to be greater than
in the past and to closely approximate expected domestic inflation. The
following rates were, therefore, assumed.
1976            15%
1977           18%
1978            16%
1979           14%
1980           12%
Overhead Costs
13.       Overhead costs were estimated at 20% of labor costs, which corresponds
to past experience. Contributions to Government offices related to GPA were
2.5% of gross revenues as required by existing legislation.
14.       Depreciation was estimated separately for existing port assets and
assets included in the project. Existing port assets were depreciated on the
basis of historical costs and project assets on the base of estimated project
costs using GPA rates (2% for land improvements and capital dredging, 4% for
buildings and warehouses, 5% for marine equipment, and 10% for machinery,
equipment and vehicles).
Project Financing
15.       The total cost of the project is estimated to be US$83.6 million
equivalent. The foreign exchange component is estimated to be US$56.7 million
or 67.8% of the total cost. The project expenditures would be financed from
the following sources:
(a) The proposed US$33.5 million World Bank loan to be repaid over
24 years, including four years of grace, at 8-1/2% interest
with a commitment fee of 3/4% on the undisbursed balance.
(b) A US$10.0 million loan from the Government or a private
bank guaranteed by the Government, repayable over eight



ANNEX 11
Page 4
years, including 3-1/2 years of grace and on other terms
and conditions satisfa3tory to the Bank. 2/
(c) The balance of the foreign exchange component, estimated
to be tJ13.2 million, and the local currency expenditures,
estimated to be US$26.9 million equivalent, will be financed
out of the GPA internal cash generation and through another
Government loan to GPA on terms not less favorable than
those of the proposed World Bank loan.
The Republic of Ecuador will guarantee all external loans to zPA.
April 1976
j The Government and GPA are cur.rently negotiating, with a private foreign
bank, a US$10.0 million loan inder co-financing arrangements with the
Bank.  However, the Governmen. has assured the Bank that, if these nego-
tiations are not satisfactori:ly completed, it will provide the same
amount to GPA on terms not less favorable than those offered by the
private foreign bank. In the projections shown in Table 6, it has been
assumed that the interest rate over the life of this loan would be, on
the average, -8 per year.



IBRD 11413R
Sl6O' V         ;0 0   * 0 n '>-,-   0 S                                  77W00                                    75s00                                     73!w                 MAY 1975
TOIASI             Q A  - MU .U '=giX  elulbl ffi   C                                                  ECUADOR
CIO __   7<t  50 oREPORT ON THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
-f                                      0 I~ iESM  SDA5 <A  L                            TRANSPORT  NETWORK
. ~        ~~~~~~~~                ~         ~~~~ ~~~~~~~ A Sn  ElA                0 n
|0                                                                                                                                                             NATIONAL  *- CAPI....TA L               0o 0
BURA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_______GAE OR
Sw>;    s, '                                      --                                                  <..,e,                                                        A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  co'
s t 7/ R M S rg .~~~~~s                                                                                                            1
>    fSESor,RI  TItRUET    /lso       E                                           0____________   PR20INCIAL R60NOAOI 1  2
/                A                    I NKI L O M E T E R S  z       -      .    i . - '.  '   SVE DN A DS
~~ISR  C  CIo~~~~~~~~ A  S RIondo  Co ~ ~     ---        A S 
2,00,
-~,/ O 51\0(  -OOCI        79  0040000751 0                                                                                     W rldB.1k  Mlu  za    rri '  ' C  ,  Zh   S   ,,,  .:O..i:i . ...:.......  .
OR:A
io ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~/~o
0  20      60    100      0      IRS 200
KILOMETERS                                                             I
81.w                         ~~~~~~~~~~7900O                           77'0o'                                   75000             -PCOy VI4ALIVVIIVI-t LCIU 01I"






IBRD 11709
ECUADOR
GUAYAQUIL SECOND PORT PROJECT
GENERAL EAYOUT
N                                                                                           N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E 
'St AS\                                                                  ,.  '   .     ' '               ,,    - f  ---,. --------
_/          |                                 ?  I    I I    1          1    j  N          \  0                     0      ,       X  ;   , 0:.N 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
IU                                                     N                       s                                  _    _ b____________
- 1  X  | g  0  1  $  La :  *= ; it!g1SuX, .s: 9 ,;;;;,5 u ,:gg%g{Inc .,. C; t 2 ., 01, > t .~~~~~~~~~w     a 0 






IBRD 11710
ai'oor        n D0wl            75s!00,           73 00   SEPTEMBER 1975
ECUADOR
neW               co+ oGUAYAQUIL SECOND PORT PROJECT
R5D pi" 0  L                   1972 HIGHWAY TRAFFIC FLOW
AVERAGE ANNUAL DAILY TRAFFIC
F_I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lPRE.O-ICA CPL
_fL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  RAVE ROR
g.            n                 RIV~~~~~~~~~~~ERT RORS
A. 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-2100      I m   AZ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~  01 01 0   O  0
MORONA- 6' 0 0   T h e   6 n u n d 7 r t e s   mht  ,sepS the  r  ...........   .   A   .
Bi100 .. 7sSD0  77  00  75;00  World rsank and i t s   a f f Wld.  t
7900         77*00             7300~~~~1~



