LOAN NUMBER 1255 EC
(AMENDMENT)
AMENDING AGREEMENT
to the
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Guayaquil Port Project)
dated May 24, 1976
and the
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Second Guayaquil Port Project)
dated May 24, 1976
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AUTORIDAD PORTUARIA DE GUAYAQUIL
Dated               If    , 1977


﻿AMENDING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     K\e 4                   , 1977, between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (hereinafter called the Guarantor),
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and AUTORIDAD PORTUARIA DE GUAYAQUIL (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank and the Borrower entered into a Loan
Agreement (Second Guayaquil Port Project) dated May 24, 19716
(hereinafter called the Loan Agreement), for the purpose of
assisting in financing a project in the Port of Guayaquil, as such
project is described in Schedule 2 co the Loan Agreement
(hereinafter called the Project), and the Guarantor and the Bank
entered into a Guaraatee Agreement (Second Guayaquil Port Project)
of even date therewith (hereinafter called the Guarantee
Agreement), whereby the Guarantor agreed to guarantee the
obligations of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement;
(B) The Borrower has entered with BNS International (Panama)
S.A. (hereinafter called Co-Lender) and Smith Barney, Harris Upham
and Co. Incorporated (hereinafter called the Manager) into the
contract dated as of December 21, 1976 mentioned in Section 2.01
of this Agreement;
(C)   The Guarantor has entered with the Co-Lender into a
guarantee agreement, dated December 21, 1976, guaranteeing, inter
alia, the debt of the Borrower under the loan agreement referred
to in (B) above;
(D)   The Guarantor has undertaken in Section 2.02 of the
Guarantee Agreement to assist the Borrower in financing the cost
of the Project;
(E) The Guarantor, the Borrower and the Co-Lender have
requested the Bank to amend the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee
Agreement to reflect the execution of the agreements referred to
in (B) and (C) above;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Amending Agreement,
unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the Loan Agreement, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in
the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the bank, dated March 15, 1974, have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the term "Memorandum of Agreement" means
the Memorandum of Agreement entered or to be entered into between
the Guarantor, the Bank, the Borrower the Co-Lender and the
Manager, providing for the handling of matters of mutual interest
concerning the Project including, inter alia, disbursement of
funds, exchange of information, changes in the Project and
other action to be taken under the Loan Agreement and the
Co-Lending Contract.
ARTICLE II
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
Section 2.01. Paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 1.02 of
the Loan Agreement are amended to read as follows:
"(c) 'Co-Lending Contract' means the contract for a
loan in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 to provide
financial assistance to the Borrower in respect of the
foreign exchange cost of the Project, entered into between
the Borrower and BNS International (Panama) S.A. (hereinafter
called 'Co-Lender ') and Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co.
Incorporated (hereinafter called the Manager), dated as of
December 21, 1976; any loan made or to be made by such
Co-Lender under such Co-Lending Contract to be hereinafter
called 'Co-Lender 's Loan ';" and
"(d) 'Guarantor's Loan Contract' means a contract
satisfactory to the Bank providing for the loan referred
to in Section 2.02 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement; such loan
to be called hereinafter 'Guarantor 's Loan ;"
Sect4on 2.02. Paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of the Loan
Agreement is amended to read as follows:


﻿-3-
"(b) Unless the Bank shall otherwise &gree, the Borrower
shall enter, not later than December 31, 1977, into the
Guarantor's Loan Contract, and exercise its rights and comply
with its obligations thereunder and under the Co-Lending
Contract in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Bank and the Borrower, and shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning, vaiving or failing to enforce such Guarantor 's
Loan Contract or Co-Lending Contract, or any provision
thereof."
Section 2.03. Paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 and paragraph (b)
*       of Section 6.02, both of the Loan Agreement, are amended by delet-
ing the words "First Guarantor's Loan" and "Second Guarantor's
Loan" wherever they appear therein and replacing such words by the
words "Co-Lender's Loan" and "Guarantor's Loan," respectively.
Section 2.04. Paragraph (a) of Section 7.01 of the Loau
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"(a) that all conditions precedent to initial
disbursements under the Co-Lending Contract except for
the conditions set forth in Sections 3.1 (b) and 3.2 (d) of
such Co-Lending Contract, have been fulfilled; and"
Section 2.05. Paragraph (a) of Section 7.02 of the Loan
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"(a) that the execution and delivery of the Co-Lending
Contract have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action, and that such
Co-Lending Contract is legally binding upon the Borrower
and the Co-Lender and the Manager in accordance with its
terms; and"
ARTICLE III
Amendments to the Guarantee Agreement
Section 3.01. Sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement is deleted.
Section 3.02. The symbols ";" and "(ii)", and the word
"and" between such symbols, are deleted from the seventh line of
Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have
been furnished to the Bank that:
(a)   the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement
on behalf of, respeitively, the Guarantor and the Borrower, have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
and corporate action; and
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Memorandum of
Agreement on behalf of the Guarantor and  the Borrower have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and
corporate action.
Section 4.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Amending Agreement, there shall
be furnished to the Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to
the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank showing:
(a) on behalf of the Guarantor, that this Amending Agreement
and the Memorandum of Agreement have been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Guarantor, and that this Amending Agreement, the Guarantee
Agreement as amended by this Amending Agreement and the Memorandum
of Agreement, constitute valid and binding obligations of the
Guarantor in accordance with their terms; and
(b) on behalf of the 30rrower, that this Amending Agreement
and the Memorandum of Agreement have been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Borrower, and that this Amending Agreement, the Loan Agreement as
amended by this Amending Agreement, and the Memorandum of
Agreement constitute valid and binding obligations of the
Borrower in accordance with their terms.
Section 4.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force
and effect on Lhe date on which the Bank dispatches to the
Guarantor and the Borrower notice of the acceptance by the Bank
of the evidence required by Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this
Amending Agreement.


﻿Section 4.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into
force and effect by March 31, 1977, this Amending Agreement and
all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate unless
the Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the delay,
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of such
later date. If this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the
provisions of this Section, the provisions of the Guarantee
Agreement and of the Loan Agreement shall continue to read as if
this Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
*       their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective names
in the District of Columbia, United States of Americr, as of the
day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By      I
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By    JS                            LW
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
AUTORIDAD PORTUARIA DE GUAYAQUIL
By     12
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in bhe archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  L     day of4    L, 197.
*                                                  FOR SECRETARY


