Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H631-RY 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Private Sector Growth and Social Protection Development Policy Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 14, 2010 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H631-RY 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 14, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) 
the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macroeconomic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to forty five million 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 45,000,000) (“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exch
ange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework and
 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
Page  3
2
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would 
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any 
action taken under the Program. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: namely that a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be 
carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the Association is 
satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program and 
with the adequacy of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Planning and International Cooperation. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
PO Box 175 
Sana’a, Republic of Yemen 
 
Telephone:  
Facsimile: 
967-1-250-118  
967-1-250-665 
 
967-1-250-605 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Page  4
3
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
  248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C.  
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
 
By /s/ Abdulwahab Abdullah Al Hajri 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
 
ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Shamshad Akhtar 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program 
include the following:
 
1. 
The Recipient has enacted Investment Law 15/2010, dated August 23, 2010 which 
provides, 
inter alia
,
for the elimination of firm-specific tax holidays and supports 
investment promotion, facilitation and advocacy. 
 
2. 
The Recipient’s Minister of Industry and Trade has issued Decree No. 114/2010, dated 
March 21, 2010, to simplify business entry procedures, including the launch of a one-stop 
shop for business entry procedures and the introduction of registration and building 
permitting in Aden, Taiz, Hodeidah, Hadhramout and Ibb governorates. 
 
3. 
The Recipient’s Central Bank has issued Circular No. 609, dated January 16, 2010, to 
establish a central credit registry, and specifying the scope and periodicity of credit 
reporting to a central credit agency as well as access by banks to such pooled credit 
information. 
 
4. 
Pursuant to Microfinance Banking Law No. 15, dated April 6, 2009, the Recipient's 
Central Bank has approved the necessary by-laws to complete a regulatory framework for 
micro finance. 
 
5. 
The Recipient has enacted the Budget Law No. 49, dated December 30, 2009, which 
includes a medium term expenditure framework for the next three years, and published 
such law in the Official Gazette No. 24/2009, dated December 31, 2009. 
 
6. 
The Recipient’s Minister of Finance has issued Order No. 430, dated October 23, 2010, 
approving the introduction of expenditure commitment control systems in the Ministries 
of Public Works, Education, Health and Finance on a pilot basis. 
 
7. 
The Recipient has automated government financial accounts in the Ministries of Finance, 
Public Works, Education, and Health by completing the preparation of the Final 
Accounts 2009 and the quarterly In-Year Budget Execution Reports for 2010 using the 
Accounting-based Financial Management Information System (AFMIS). 
 
8. 
Pursuant to the Law on Social Welfare No. 39, published in the Official Gazette No. 
13/2008, dated July 16, 2008, the Recipient’s Council of Ministers has approved a 
proposal on October 26, 2010 to operationalize a new targeting methodology for 
beneficiaries of the Social Welfare Fund, based on the survey conducted by the Social 
Welfare Fund in 2008. 
 
9. 
The Recipient’s Council of Ministers has approved on October 26, 2010 by-laws to the 
Law on Social Welfare No. 39, to complete the legal framework and strengthen the 
operation of the Social Welfare Fund. 
Page  6
5
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing is allocated in a single withdrawal 
tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing.  The 
allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
 
45,000,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
45,000,000 
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Association is 
satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient; and (b) with the 
appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree: 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain, a deposit 
account in Dollars (“Deposit Account”) on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. 
 
2. 
All withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.  Upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into the Deposit Account, the Recipient shall ensure that an equivalent 
amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget management system, in a 
manner acceptable to the Association.  
 
E. Audit
.
The Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
(4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Page  7
6
Association shall reasonably request, and make such report publicly available in 
a
timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Association; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 30, 2011. 
 
Page  8
7
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
Page  9
8
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party); 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or 
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications set forth 
in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
3. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated October 17, 2010, from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
4. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section 
II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Social Welfare Fund” means the Social Welfare Fund, established and operating by 
virtue of Presidential Decrees No. 31 of 1996, and No. 39 of 2008, as the same may be 
amended from time to time. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  10
9
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
 
