Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:
 AB5892
 
Operation Name 
Fiscal Sustainability and Growth  
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (60%); Private sector (20%); 
Other social services (20%) 
Project ID 
P122414 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministry of Finance 
P.O. Box 190 
Sana’a, Yemen 
Tel: (973-1) 260 370  Fax: (973-1) 263 040 5 
finance@gmail.com 
esharafi@mof.gov.ye 
Date PID Prepared 
August 3, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
August 17, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 26, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Yemen is an oil-dependent economy that faces a rapidly declining oil production. On average, 85 percent of 
exports and 30 percent of fiscal revenues were derived from oil exports since 2000. The production peaked in 
2001 and has since declined at a rate of about 3 to 4 percent per annum. The annual fiscal loss incurred since 
2008, the year when the international price for petroleum peaked, amounts to 8 percent of GDP, or about 50 
percent of 2008 oil revenues. Yemen is forecast to become a net-importer of petroleum products in 4 to 5 years, 
if no new oil is found and current policies, including subsidizing domestic energy consumption, are maintained.  
Yemen’s fiscal sustainability is highly vulnerable to international prices for oil. After running a balanced budget 
(cash basis) in 2008, the country suffered a fiscal deficit (cash basis) of 8 percent of GDP in 2009. Barring fiscal 
correction, Yemen could be expected to experience an overall fiscal deficit of about 8 percent of GDP in 2010 
without adjustment (commitment basis).  The projected annual deficit, equivalent to US$2.4 billion, is currently 
largely financed through domestic sources. Program negotiations with the IMF led to measures which project a 
deficit for 2010 of about 5 percent. This Development Policy Grant operation would offer external budget 
support financing amounting together to 0.3 percent of GDP.  
Against this background, the IMF Board has approved an arrangement for Yemen under the Extended Credit 
Facility (ECF) on  July, 30
th
,
2010.
Implementation of the ECF supported reform program aims to restore 
fiscal sustainability over the medium term through primarily strengthening the revenue base (application of the 
General Sales tax, elimination of tax exemptions) and reducing energy subsidies. The program is expected to 
maintain price inflation and help to stabilize the depreciation path of the Yemeni Riyal to adjust to the gradual 
reduction in oil exports.  
The proposed Development Policy Grant will help to focus on reforms critical to setting the conditions for non-
hydrocarbon growth and supporting fiscal sustainability in Yemen and, while protecting the poor.  These 
reforms are reflected in a set of prior actions to be completed before presenting the operation to the Board.  They 
focus on: (i) enhancing non-hydrocarbon revenues and the strengthening of public financial management; (ii) 
improving the investment climate; and (iii) making the social protection system more effective.  This selection is 
Page  2
2
consistent with the thematic areas of the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy 2009-2012 for Yemen.  The prior 
actions focus largely on institutions and processes.  This is because many of Yemen’s institutions are weak and 
have limited capacity.
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed operation is to mitigate the impact of the current fiscal crisis in Yemen and to support the 
Government’s medium-term economic reform program, thereby helping the country improve fiscal 
sustainability and set the conditions for enhancing growth in the non-hydrocarbon part of the economy. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
Nine prior actions were selected for this Development Policy Grant (DPG) in support of the government’s 
program
.
This DPG contains a robust reform program that is adequate for Yemen’s situation, and which 
complements the structural reform agenda agreed upon with the IMF under the ECF arrangement which is 
expected to be approved by the IMF Board on July 28
th
,
2010. Under Yemen’s circumstances, some process-
oriented actions are crucial to paving the way for deeper reforms and institution building. The proposed program 
will therefore
 
prepare the ground for even stronger policy reform actions as part of the Government’s reform 
program.
 
The proposed program pillars are: (i) regaining fiscal sustainability, (ii) improving public financial management 
and governance; (iii) generating private sector growth and employment; and (iv) improving the efficiency and 
equity of the social protection system.  All four areas are consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy 
(CAS), support key aspects of the Government’s reform program and reflect the Bank’s comparative advantage.  
They are underpinned by ongoing Bank-supported investment operations as well as past, current or planned 
Analytic and Advisory Activities (AAA) work.  
 
4. Environment Aspects 
This operation is a development policy grant in support of a program of reforms for which the environmental 
requirements of Operational Policies/Business Process 8.60 apply.  The proposed DPG is not expected to have 
significant effects on the country's environment, forests and other natural resources. The environmental and 
natural resource implications are driven to a large extent by the nature of an operation. In the proposed 
operation, none of the prior actions as listed in the policy matrix is expected to have environmental impacts or 
risks.  None of the Bank’s safeguard policies are triggered by the proposed DPG. 
5. 
T
entative financing 
 
Source: 
 
($ m) 
Borrower 
International Development Association 
0
70 
 
Total: 
 
70 million 
 
6. Contact point 
Wilfried Engelke 
Title: Senior Economist. 
Tel: 967-733-232-396 
Email: wengelke@worldbank.org 
Location: Sana’a, Yemen (IBRD)
Page  3
3
