Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5989 
Operation Name 
PRIVATE SECTOR GROWTH & SOCIAL PROTECTION 
DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Public admin-finance (30%); Other social services (30%); General 
Industry and Trade Sector (20%); General Finance Sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P122414 
Recipient 
GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MoPIC) 
PO Box 175 
Sana'a, Republic of Yemen 
Tel: (967-1) 250-118/107 
Fax: (967-1) 250-665 
ashater@mpic.gov.ye
,
wbfumpic@gmail.com 
Date PID Prepared 
October 19, 2010 
Date of Appraisal Authorization 
October 4, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
November 23, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Yemen is an oil-dependent economy that faces a rapidly declining oil production. On average, 85 percent of 
exports and 65 percent of fiscal revenues were derived from oil exports and domestic oil trade since 2000
.
The 
production peaked in 2001 and has since declined at a rate of about 3 to 4 percent per annum. The fiscal loss 
incurred since 2008, the year when the international price for petroleum peaked, amounts to 8 percent of GDP, 
or about 50 percent of 2008 oil revenues. Yemen is forecast to become a net-importer of petroleum products in 4 
to 5 years, if no new oil is found and current policies, including subsidizing domestic energy consumption, is 
maintained. 
 
For the time being, Yemen’s oil sector remains the main source for foreign reserves and key for the fiscal 
balance. Oil production accounts for 10 percent of the country’s GDP.  Fiscal revenues from oil have dropped 
from 16 percent of GDP in 2008 to 7.4 percent of GDP in 2009, because of declining production and 
international prices. Although the average export price per barrel of oil Yemen is projected to obtain in 2010 is 
20 percent higher than in 2009, oil production declined since 2008 by 18 percent. The non-hydrocarbon 
revenues run at about 8 to 9 percent of GDP. This is unusually low for a country like Yemen. 
 
Yemen’s medium-term prospects depend on the hydrocarbon sector for the short–term and on the identification 
of new sources of economic growth over the medium–term. While oil production is expected to continue to 
decline, the production and export of liquefied natural gas (LNG) via the Yemen LNG project (YLNG) will 
offer some cushion, but cannot compensate for the loss of oil exports.  
 
Against this background, the IMF Board approved an arrangement with Yemen under the Extended Credit 
Facility (ECF) on July 30
th
,
2010.  Implementation of the ECF supported reform program aims to restore fiscal 
sustainability over the medium term through primarily strengthening the revenue base (application of the 
General Sales tax, elimination of tax exemptions) and reducing energy subsidies. The program is expected to 
maintain price inflation and help to stabilize the depreciation path of the Yemeni Riyal to adjust to the gradual 
reduction in oil exports. This proposed Private Sector Growth and Social Protection Development Policy Grant 
(PSG & SP DPG)
 
complements the program under the ECF through its focus on private sector development and 
improved coverage by the social protection net in Yemen. 
 
Page  2
2
The proposed PSG & SP DPG focuses on reforms critical to setting the conditions for non-hydrocarbon growth 
in Yemen, while protecting the poor.
 
These reforms are reflected in a set of prior actions to be completed before 
presenting the operation to the Board.  They focus on: (i) improving the investment climate for non-hydrocarbon 
growth; (ii) widening access to credit; (iii) strengthening of public financial management; and (iv) making the 
social protection system more efficient.  This selection is consistent with the thematic are
as of the Bank’s 
Country Assistance Strategy 2009-2012 for Yemen.  The prior actions focus largely on institutions and 
processes.  This is because many of Yemen’s institutions are weak and have limited capacity.
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
The main objective of the proposed Development Policy Grant is to foster private sector growth in the non-
hydrocarbon part of the economy, to improve key aspects of the public financial management system, and to 
mitigate the impact of the ongoing fuel subsidy reduction on the poor by creating a more inclusive and more 
equitable cash transfer system. 
The main policy areas are: (i) private sector employment and growth, (ii) financial sector development, (iii) 
strengthening of budget management and prioritization; and (iv) improving the efficiency of the social 
protection system. 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Budget support to Yemen should be seen in the context of the revenue shock brought about by steeply declining 
oil prices in the wake of the global financial crisis.  The Bank and IMF support will help Yemen’s fiscal 
stabilization efforts and enable the country to continue its reform program.  Bank Financial assistance to 
Yemen’s budget will help sustain an adequate level of public expenditures in Yemen, in order to strengthen 
public service delivery and social protection.  
Success in mitigating the impact of the fiscal crisis on Yemen’s economy will involve a combination of fiscal 
adjustment and additional complementary financing.  Together with the IMF’s proposed arrangement under the 
Extended Credit Facility (ECF), this proposed DPG would help focus energies in key complementary reform for 
the adjustment process (non-hydrocarbon growth), and provide relief for some immediate financing pressures on 
the budget.  The Bank is supporting the Government in the adjustment process, both directly and through its 
participation in the design of the new ECF with the IMF.  Further Bank support to the adjustment process is 
however, critical for adjusting successfully to an economy with a decreasing oil sector and for sustaining the 
reform process. 
In addition to assisting Yemen with its short-term financing need, the operation would open the door for a 
medium-term reform policy dialogue with Yemen which should be programmatic in nature.  The ongoing Bank 
assistance and policy engagement to Yemen creates the opportunity to seek commitment in well-defined areas 
for reform, in line with the emerging new medium term Development Plan for Poverty Reduction that provides 
the basis for a strong medium-term reform program for Yemen.  
 
The importance of a medium-to-long term focus, however, cannot be overstated.  Yemen’s fiscal and structural 
adjustment to a period with a reduced oil sector is unlikely to be achieved through this operation only. The 
structural reforms required to build up a vibrant private sector that could substitute the oil sector will take time 
and are medium- and long-term in nature.  Therefore, a reform program is needed for the medium- and longer-
term in support of Yemen’s development goals and to overcome the country’s vulnerability.  Supporting and 
sustaining the medium term aspects would require additional programmatic operations.  Foremost, private sector 
development and budget management would form the core of future operations, building on this operation. 
 
Page  3
3
4. Financing 
 
This proposed PSG & SP DPG is a single tranche operation of about US$70 million equivalent.  The grant will 
be disbursed upon effectiveness of the Financing Agreement.  
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The responsibility for implementing this program rests with the Ministry of Plan and International Cooperation 
(MoPIC).  The MoPIC is responsible for the implementation of the PSG & SP DPG as well as for coordinating 
the actions among the concerned institutions (including Ministry of Finance, Central Bank of Yemen, and the 
Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs).  Together with the MoPIC, these institutions will collect the necessary 
data for the identified monitoring indicators.  To ensure appropriate coordination accross the concerned 
Ministries and implementation status reporting by MoPIC on a bi-annual basis (2 reports, one in July 2011, a 
2nd in January 2012), a steering committee was formed for the implementation period of this operation (up to 
end 2011).  
MoPIC and the Bank are looking forward to the lessons learned from this operation to inform future operations 
of this nature. The MoPIC and the Bank have agreed to monitor the progress in the program supported by the 
DPG and its evaluation will serve to inform preparation of similar or other Bank operations as well the mid-term 
review of the Bank’s assistance strategy for Yemen. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
The value-added of the proposed PSG & SP DPG vis-à-vis existing operations being implemented in Yemen 
include: (i) bringing together different strands of Bank assistance under a consolidated, coherent reform 
package; (ii) proposing prior actions not directly addressed in previous or on-going operations, such as the 
strengthening of the linkages between Yemen’s Development Plan for Poverty Reduction Strategy and the 
Government budget as well as the rationalization of the cash transfer system administered by the Social Welfare 
Fund (SWF); and (iii) accelerating the policy decisions on a number of reform areas, thereby energizing the 
reform agenda and providing synergies with the implementation of the investment project portfolio.  
In addition, the proposed program includes the following main benefits: (i) providing urgent financial resources; 
(ii) supporting the environment for private sector development; (iii) strengthening governance especially in the 
PFM area; (iv) improving social protection, (v) paving the way for a possible medium and longer term 
engagement on key policy reforms; and (vi) serving as a possible catalyst for other development partners of 
Yemen to accelerate their support. 
 
This DPG is subject to significant country (macroeconomic, security, and political), fiduciary, and general risks 
affecting the Bank’s program in Yemen would also impact the operation. They include: 
Political and economic performance risks.
 
A
deterioration in the political environment in Yemen would affect 
the Bank’s ability to implement its assistance program.  The DPG could also be affected by risks related to the 
Government’s commitment to an ambitious reform program at this time.   
Oil revenue volatility risks.
 
Yemen has been subject to significant changes in its oil revenues, reflecting its 
dependence on crude oil exports.  This makes it challenging to conduct fiscal policy with a medium-term 
orientation, while maintaining adequate levels of public spending.   
Security risks.
 
As in many conflict-affected countries, a deterioration of the security situation constitutes a large 
source of risk for the operation.  The capacity of the Yemeni Government to support security will be a 
determinant of the extent of risk that persists.   
Page  4
4
Fiduciary Risks.
 
As indicated in the section on fiduciary assessment, financial controls in Yemen are weak and 
the operation’s fiduciary risk is high.  Weaknesses in Yemen’s institutional environment increase the exposure 
of the Bank’s resources to fiduciary problems.   
Technical Capacity Risks.
 
Limitations of the civil service in the technical capability to implement the reform 
program present another source of risk.   
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
The PSG & SP DPG set of prior actions is expected to have a positive impact on the livelihood of the poor. The 
thrust of this operation sets out for improving the conditions for private sector investment and growth, and 
supports better public financial management and governance. All the suggested measures and related policies 
should directly or indirectly help alleviate poverty, either (i) through enhancing non-hydrocarbon growth, (ii) 
widening the access to credit or financial services, or (iii) through better budget prioritization and targeted 
budget allocation. This operation helps directly the poor by supporting the Social Welfare Fund become a more 
efficient institution in the area of social protection and meeting the need of the poor population by improving the 
SWF targeting mechanism.   
The Household Budget Survey of 2005 and the corresponding Poverty Assessment has been the key analytical 
base that helped to understand the poverty implication of the policy choices underlying the PSG & SP DPG.  
The 2005 and last household budget survey served also as a base for a poverty impact and incidence analysis of 
energy subsidy elimination, complemented by the Bank’s study on Coping Strategies in Rural Yemen. Relevant 
poverty insights were also gained from work done by the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) 
on Food Security and Policy Implication in Yemen. In addition, the Bank conducted a specific impact analyses 
for the preparation of this operation, highlighting the poverty incidence with regard to the poverty impact of the 
oil subsidy elimination. 
There is a substantive body of research showing that employment growth is the primary pathway out of poverty, 
and that the private sector is the major source for sustainable employment growth.  Yemen’s economy has 
depended heavily on oil for exports and public revenues in recent years, but this dependence cannot be 
sustained.  Furthermore, it has not generated sufficient employment for a growing and youthful population.  
Only by creating conditions for private investment in the non-oil economy can Yemen’s economy diversity and 
generate jobs.  This will require addressing a number of leading constraints, ranging from governance 
challenges to unreliable infrastructure.  Rationalizing the incentive framework for investment; creating a 
framework for privately-developed Special Economic Zones (SEZs) to address, in limited areas a constellation 
of investment climate challenges; and streamlining regulations each contribute importantly to creating 
conditions for sustainable private-led growth. 
While Yemen’s reserves of natural resources are declining, the Government is working on better prioritization 
of its spending through improving budget execution and accountability. The government, while engaged in a 
public expenditure consolidation program, is protecting public expenditure. Moreover, improving procurement, 
cash management and control and accounting systems will reduce waste, theft and corruption adding to the 
Government’s ability to deliver services to the population.  Improved effectiveness of public expenditures in line 
with the new Development Plan for Poverty Reduction, and improved management and transparency will help 
that more public resources get to benefit the people.  
Yemen plans not only to spend a significant portion of its budget on social protection but to improve its impact 
and effectiveness.
 
The targeting and coverage of the SWF cash-based safety net needs to become more effective 
in reaching poor Yemenis households.  The rationalization of the SWF and the enhancement of its safety net 
offer are essential both, fiscally and in order to protect the poor and vulnerable from a wide array of shocks. 
The proposed PSG & SP DPG is not expected to have significant effects on the country's environment, forests 
and other natural resources. The environmental and natural resource implications are driven to a large extent by 
Page  5
5
the nature of an operation. In the proposed operation, none of the prior actions as listed in the policy matrix is 
expe
cted to have environmental impacts or risks.  None of the Bank’s safeguard policies are triggered by the 
proposed DPG.
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Wilfried Engelke 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5392+234 / 967-1-413-708 
Fax: 614-1302 
Email: wengelke@worldbank.org 
Location: Sana'a, Yemen (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
