Report No. 100lb-CH                                                                   -    :.  
Appraisal of the Livestock, Fruits, Vineyards
and Agro-Industry Credit Project Chile
November 29, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This clocument hias a restrictecd clistribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their otficial dLuties. Its contents rnav not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BECH    -  Banco del Estado (State Bank)
CB      -  Banco Central de Chile (Central Bank)
CORA    -  Corporacion de la Reforma Agraria (Agrarian Reform Corporation)
CORFO   -  Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion (Development Corporation)
ICIRA   -  Instituto de Capacitacion e Investigacion en Reforma Agraria
(Institute for Training and Research in Agrarian Reform)
INDAP   - Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecua*rio (Small Farmer Development
Institute)
INIA    - Instituto de Investigaciones Agropecuarias (Institute for
Agricultural Research)
ODE,PA   -  Oficina de Planificacion Agricola (Agricultural Planning Office
of Ministry of Agriculture)
SAG     -  Servicio Agricola y Ganadero, Ministerio de Agricultura (Agri-
cultural and Livestock Extension Service, Ministry of Agriculture)
SARA    -  Sociedad Agricola de la Reforma Agraria (Agricultural Society of
Agrarian Reform)
GOVERNMENT OF CHILE
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........................  i - ii
I.  INTRODUCTION ..1...............  I
II.   BACKGROUND ............ .............   1
A.   General .....................................             1
B.   The Banking System and Agricultural Credit .....   5
C.   Services to Agriculture ..           .....................   6
D.   Performance under the Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project .....          ................    7
III.   THE PROJECT ........................................   8
A.   Definition       .............................            8
B.   Detailed Features .............................           9
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing .................       .  12
D.   Procurement and Disbursement .................       .  14
E.   Organization and Management ......... ..........  15
F.   Accounts and Auditing .......... ..         .............  17
IV.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND PRODUCER BENEFITS.   18
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .................  21
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS .................          ...................  22
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission, consist-
ing of Messrs. K.W. Berg, F. Lucca, D.B. Parbery, and C. Wolffelt (Bank)
and W.A. Price and M. Walshe (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.   The Agricultural Sector
2.   Land Reform
3.   Agro-Industries:  Processing and Marketing
4.   Credit to the Agricultural Sector in Chile
A.   General
B.   The State Bank (BECH)
C.   The Development Corporation (CORFO)
D.   The Small Farmer Development Institute (INDAP)
E.   Others
5.   Project Cash Flow
6.   Disbursement Estimate
7.   Medium and Long-term Investment Items under Project
8.   Income and Financial Rate of Return of Investments
Appendix 1 - Yield, Cost and Price Assumptions
Appendix 2 - Investment Models and Financial Rate of Return
9.   Economic Rate of Return
MAP



CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a Livestock, Fruits, Vineyards and Agro-
Industry Credit Project for which a Bank loan of US$25 million equivalent
is proposed. The loan would support a three-year lending program by the
State Bank (Banco del Estado--BECH), the Development Corporation (Corporacion
de Fomento de la Produccion--CORFO), the Small Farmer Development Institute
(Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecuario--INDAP), and commercial banks. The
Republic of Chile would be the borrower and bear the exchange risk. A Pro-
ject Commission under the chairmanship of the Central Bank (CB) would admi-
nister the Project. The CB would act as the fiscal agent and lend Project
funds under subsidiary loan agreements to the above-mentioned participating
lending institutions.
ii.       Chile's agricultural sector employs less than one-fourth of the
country's active labor force but contributes a much smaller portion to the
GNP. Agricultural imports increased between 1970 and 1973 from US$168 mil-
lion to US$595 million but have dropped since to US$472 million in 1974
and to US$361 million in 1975 and to an estimated US$300 million in 1976.
Agricultural exports stagnated around US$24 million per year during the
1965-73 period but increased to US$54 million in 1974 and reached US$86
million in 1975.
iii.      The proposed Project would help increase agricultural exports and
domestic consumption through investments in fruits, vineyards and agro-
industry and help reduce agricultural imports through investments in live-
stock. The estimated incremental output would be US$35 million equivalent
per year at full development for production investments, while the incremental
added value from agro-industrial processing would be US$11 million per year.
iv.       Under the Project some 4,300 small farmer families (including about
2,500 "mini-fundistas" owning five basic ha of land or less) and some 500
medium-sized farmers would benefit from the lending program directly. In
addition, the loan would provide finance to some 80 agro-industrial enter-
prises. The Project would also provide incremental employment for some 4,100
people and reduce the underemployment of the above-mentioned 4,300 small farm
families. Furthermore, it would provide employment in industries supplying
goods and services to farms and agro-industries.
v.        The Project would provide a line of credit for long-term invest-
ments which has been almost non-existent in most of the country's farming
sector. Thus, it would enable farmers and entrepreneurs to make long delayed
investments needed to upgrade production to quality levels suitable for
exports. Without such a line of credit, these investments would be further
delayed or not made at all. Participating lending institutions would broaden
their experience in investment appraisal and provide valuable technical exper-
tise to their clients. This is expected to have an important institution-
building effect.



- ii -
vi.       Total Project cost would be US$62.5 million equivalent.  The loan of
US$25 million equivalent would cover the Project's estimated foreign exchange
component, equivalent to 40% of Project cost. The balance would be contributed
by the Government (40%) and sub-borrowers (20%). Sub-loans would be made for
up to 15 years at 6 to 8% interest per year to farmers and 8 to 12% to agro-
industrial units, the outstanding principal being adjusted, in each case, on
the basis of the changes in the indexed Consumer Price Index.
vii.      Procurement of most items financed would be through normal commer-
cial channels rather than through international competitive bidding since the
range of items to be financed under the Project is diverse. However, the
State Bank (BECH), which is supplying a considerable amount of farm machinery
and fertilizer to its clients, would seek quotations from at least three Bank
member countries or Switzerland before awarding an import contract. Machinery
and equipment items for agro-industrial investments would be procured in a
similar way.
viii.     The financial rates of return for the various investment categories
are estimated to range from 15% to 22%. The overall economic rate of return
is estimated at 27%. During negotiations the necessary assurances were
obtained, and the Project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$25 million
equivalent to the Republic of Chile for a term of 17 years, including three
years and a half of grace.



CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Preparation of the proposed Project which would finance invest-
ments in livestock, fruits, vineyards and agro-industry began in early 1974
and was completed through FAO/CP missions that visited Chile in October/
November 1974 and again in February/March 1975; appraisal was undertaken in
September/October 1975. As a result, a Bank loan of US$25 million to the
Republic of Chile is proposed to help finance a Project to provide on-farm
investment credit to land reform beneficiaries and individual farmers for
livestock and export-oriented fruits and vineyards and to entrepreneurs for
investments in related agro-industrial ventures.
1.02      In 1963, the Bank made loans of US$19 million (Loan 366-CH) to
Chile to help finance on-farm investments for milk and beef production, and
another the same year of US$3.7 million (Loan 367-CH) to support modern-
ization and construction of milk processing plants and slaughterhouses. Dis-
bursement was completed in 1972 for Loan 366-CH and in 1970 for Loan 367-CH.
Loan 1119-CH for US$20 million which was signed June 4, 1975 and became
effective on September 23, 1975, provided credit for seeds, fertilizers,
pesticides, machinery and other production costs to small- and medium-size
farmers. It was disbursed by September 1976.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission,
consisting of Messrs. K.W. Berg, F. Lucca, D.B. Parbery, and C. Wolffelt
(Bank) and W.A. Price and M. Walshe (Consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
Area and Population
2.01      Chile's total agricultural land covers only about one-third, or
25 million ha, of the country (74 million ha). Only 1.3 million ha are
irrigated; 4.1 million ha are classified as dry land which is arable; and
19.8 million ha are dry land but not arable.
2.02      Its population is about 10.4 million (1974), of which about three-
fourths is urban. Population growth is approximately 1.7% per year. Some
90% of the population live in the country's central region between the
Aconcagua River and Puerto Montt. The country is divided into five major
ecological zones--from north to south; these are Desert, Arid, Mediterranean,
Temperate and Humid (Map).



2-
Agriculture in the Economy
2.03      Agriculture's contribution to national output is small and has
been declining. According to national accounts, its share in 1973 was 6% of
GNP, down from 19% in 1960.  However, it is estimated that, presently, the
sector's real contribution is about 50% higher than indicated if measured at
world market prices. Agriculture's share of employment has also dropped from
31% in 1960 to 23% in 1973.
2.04      Agricultural production has increased very slowly over the past 10
years. The main problems have been inefficient use of available resources,
lack of continuity in agricultural policy in general (and, until recently,
price policy in particular) and a climate of uncertainty surrounding the
lengthy agrarian reform process. These and other uncertainties gradually
affected investments adversely. Agriculture value added increased by an
average of only 2.0% annually between 1965 and 1974. During this period
fruit, wine, and milk production experienced annual increases of 3.2%, 1.7%
and 1.2%, respectively, while the value of production from Chile's 14 prin-
cipal annual crops decreased by an average of 0.7% per annum. This trend,
however, was interrupted in 1973 when agricultural production fell drastically.
2.05      The Government's objectives in 1974 were to restore production
to the 1970 level and expand further thereafter. The first objective was
reached with the 1974/75 harvest. It was achieved by making supplies avail-
able, supported by agricultural credit and appropriate prices to farmers and
by initiating a massive land distribution program, providing small farmer
land reform beneficiaries with titles to the land they cultivate. Prospects
for the 1975/76 crop year appear good but production is expected to exceed
the 1974/75 level only slightly. With regard to longer term production ob-
jectives, specific programs are underway: (i) expansion and rehabilitation
of irrigated areas; (ii) a 1975-80 reforestation program of 350,000 ha creat-
ing approximately 8,000 man-year jobs; (iii) expansion of production, mainly
for the export market based on Chile's comparative advantage in fruits,
vegetables, and vineyards; and (iv) investments in dairy/beef/sheep production
aimed at increasing domestic production and reducing imports. The proposed
Project would make a significant contribution to the latter two programs.
Moreover the Government is interested in improving the lot of 80,000 subsis-
tence farm families (under 1 ha) and 200,000 families now employed as farm
workers. The Small Farmer Development Institute (INDAP) has sought FAO/CP and
Bank assistance in preparing a first rural development project to deal with
this problem and work is now underway.
2.06      Chile has relied heavily on food imports to bridge the gap between
lagging domestic production and growing internal demand. This trend accel-
erated during the early 1970s when wages rose substantially, resulting in
unprecedented demand for foodstuffs. Food imports rose from US$140 million
in 1965 to US$595 million in 1973, then fell to US$472 million in 1974 and
to US$361 million in 1975 and to an estimated US$300 million in 1976. Wheat,
sugar, corn, and oils have been the most important food imports (US$389
million in 1974), accounting for over 80% in value. Recent increases in
domestic production, combined with decreasing consumer buying power and a



- 3 -
realistic exchange rate, have served to curb food imports, boost exports, and
improve the balance of trade. Agricultural exports, which averaged only US$24
million per year between 1965 and 1973, increased to US$54 million in 1974 and
reached US$86 million in 1975 (Annex 1).
Land Reform
2.07      Action to start a land reform program began in the early 1960s
(Annex 2). Chile's agriculture was characterized by a great concentration
of land and income, underutilization of resources, lagging production and
severe underemployment. In 1965, 80% of all agricultural land was owned by
some 11,000 farmers holding more than 80 basic ha 1/, representing less than
7% of total farms. The legal minimum rural wage, including the value of pay-
ments in kind, was less than US$0.75 equivalent per day. Agricultural out-
put had increased by an average of only 1.8% per year since 1930, while the
population had grown by nearly 2.5% per year durinIg the same period.
2.08      Between 1965 and 1973, a total of 5,806 properties involving nearly
10 million ha of land were expropriated (42% of all agricultural land). Dur-
ing this period, only about 1.1 million ha of expropriated land was actually
assigned to 10,035 families under group ownership. It was foreseen that
before assigning the land, the Agrarian Reform Corporation (CORA) would
manage the expropriated farms for three to five years until the "asentados"
(the farm workers occupying the land) became proficient enough to administer
the properties on their own. The time between CORA's takeover and assign-
ment of the land is known as the "asentamiento" period. During this period,
a farming society is established between CORA and the asentados. This enter-
prise has full legal status and is generally known as a Sociedad Agricola
de la Reforma Agraria (SARA) 2/.
2.09      Since October 1973, there has been a gradual acceleration of the
land titling process, with 4,343 individual titles assigned between then and
December 1974. An additional 14,936 titles were assigned during 1975, and
5,146 for the period January-October 1976, with the size of the distributed
parcels averaging 8.7 basic ha each. CORA now estimates that according to work
in progress some 10,000 additional titles will be assigned by December 1976
and depending on the land remaining some possibly 7 to 8,000 in 1977 to
complete the program in 1977, Thus. about 43,000 farm families (10% of all
rural families) should receive property titles under the land reform program
by the end of 1977. However, the process of land distribution and titling
1/   One basic ha is equivalent to one irrigated ha of the best soils
located in the Maipo Valley; it is used as a common index to express
productive potential of the soils in other regions. Eighty basic ha
are considered the maximum for a medium-size farm.
2/   Other farming societies like Centro de Produccion (CEPRO) and Centro
de Reforma Agraria (CERAS) are also provided for in the law, but SARA
is the most commonly applied.



requires detailed surveys in each case to provide an adequate income per
family. Therefore, the exact final number of beneficiaries will be known
only when all available land has been distributed.
2.10      Land reform alone cannot solve Chile's rural unemployment problem
because of the existing high population/agricultural land ratio. However, a
substantial number of the nation's rural families will receive title to land
under the reform program. Nearly all beneficiaries will have gained at least
some experience in farm management and operation through their experiences as
asentados (para 2.08). However, the reformed sector is characterized by
undercapitalization and low levels of productivity. Therefore, investment
capital must be provided if farmers are to make the investments needed to
upgrade and expand their operations.
Project-Related Agricultural Sub-Sectors
2.11      Livestock.  The livestock population included some 3.2 million
cattle and 5 million sheep in 1974. Cattle numbers have increased gradually
(about 1% per year) from about 2.8 million in 1965 but sheep numbers have
decreased from about 6.7 million. Pasture land and forage land comprising
about 14 million ha located in the Temperate, Humid and Mediterranean ecolo-
gical zones have a good potential for pasture/forage-based livestock produc-
tion (Annex 1). The technology required for development is well known in
Chile and main constraints have been the absence of investment capital and
the effect on the livestock industries of land reform, low producer prices,
and unrestricted imports of livestock products at heavily subsidized prices,
particularly dairy products. Output per animal and per ha could be increased
substantially. The main development objective should be to encourage low
-cost animal production from pasture by: (i) increasing pasture production
through ploughing, reseeding and fertilizing old permanent pastures; (ii)
improving grassland management through adopting rotational "paddock" grazing
management; (iii) providing adequate quantities of silage and hay for winter
feeding; (iv) adopting a spring calving pattern to best match feed produc-
tion with the dairy herds' nutrient requirements to produce low cost manu-
facturing milk; (v) adopting efficient milking and dairy husbandry practices;
and (vi) out-wintering animals on pasture and thus avoiding the heavy capital
outlay normally associated with dairying and beef production.
2.12      Orchards.  Chile has a long tradition of fruit and nut cultivation.
The central region of the country, with its warm summers, low frost incidence,
and plentiful supply of cheap irrigation water, is ideally suited to the
cultivation of a wide range of products.
2.13      During the recent past, production had stagnated due to uncertain
market conditions, when prices in the local market dropped to below cost-of-
production levels with the result that much produce was not harvested. With
the periodical devaluation of the Chilean currency, attention is being focused
on export production. Chile has had access to export markets in North America,
Europe and Latin America for many years, and the prospect of profitable
exports is creating a strong incentive for orchard investment. Many producers
are interested in making investments now, anticipating future improved market
conditions (Annex 3).



- 5 -
2.14      Vineyards.  Chile is a renowned producer of wines.  It has import-
ant advantages in production with its root-fungus (phylloxera) free vine-
yards, good soils, cheap irrigation facilities, dry warm summers and an
almost total lack of severe frosts (Annex 1). Most of the production is
consumed domestically, but recently incentives to export have increased.
Restrictions on the planting of new vineyards have been lifted, and overseas
markets are developing, especially in Latin America; therefore, the prospect
for an expanded wine industry is good. There is demand for investment funds
to rehabilitate and improve existing vineyards as well as to plant new ones.
B. The Banking System and Agricultural Credit
General
2.15      The principal institutional sources of agricultural credit in Chile
are the banking system and the specialized public institutions. The banking
system consists of the Central Bank (CB), the State Bank (BECH) and 19 com-
mercial banks, while the specialized public institutions are the Development
Corporation (CORFO) and INDAP. CORA has ceased lending to agriculture, with
loans to the land reform sector now handled by BECH. Some of these institu-
tions are presently undergoing structural and policy changes; many of the
Government-owned commercial banks are being sold to the private sector and
beginning to apply positive interest rates, while specialized public institu-
tions are drastically modifying their activities. Non-institutional credit is
provided by agro-industries and by traders.
Banking System
2.16      The banking system is regulated by the National Monetary Council,
a Government body, comprising the Ministers of Economic Coordination, Indus-
try, Reconstruction, Development and Finance; the Director of National Plan-
ning; the President of the Central Bank; and a representative of the Chief of
State. The Council, established by Government Decree in June 1975, rules on
key banking policy issues such as savings, internal and external debts,
levels of reserves, exchange rates and rate of interest.
2.17      State Bank (BECH).  BECH is Chile's largest- banking institution,
holding about 50% of the country's loan balances, and it is also the only
institution within the commercial banking system that can accept long-term
savings from the public. It is, in addition, by far the most important
source of credit to the agricultural sector, granting in 1974 about 105,000
loans to agriculture for a total of US$75 million equivalent, or about 85%
of agricultural lending by the banking system and specialized public insti-
tutions. About 50% of its agricultural lending is in the form of inputs
delivered directly to farmers. BECH is described in more detail in Annex 4.



- 6 -
2.18      Commercial Banks.  Nineteen commercial banks, besides BECH, operate
in Chile. However, reserve requirement provisions and tight lending terms
have almost completely blocked their participation in investment financing,
including that for agriculture, As these banks are not allowed to lend for
periods of more than 90 days, the bulk of thelr portfolios is in short-term
credit, mainly to industry and comLerce.  The only exception is long-term
lending to export-oriented undertakings fi-nanced through foreign currency
received by the Central Bank, as would be the case with the proposed Project.
Commercial bank lending to the agricultural sector has been considerable in
the past but it has been gradually going down, from 50% of total lending to
the sector in 1963 to 18% in 1970, and, in 1974, it accounted for only 5%.
Other Credit Institutions
2.19      CORFO is a state-o-wned development corporation, which holds a subs-
tantial amount of equity in various industries of the country. On December 31,
1974, CORFO controlled part or all of 183 enterprises through equity totalling
about US$1,769 million equivalent. it has traditionally been a source for
medium- and long-term agricultural lending, including agro-industry.  CORFO's
total portfolio by the end of 1975 was US$347 million equivalent of which
US$76 million, or 22%, were in the agricultural sector (Annex 4).
2.20      INDAP, the Small Farmer Deveelopment Institute, is part of the
Ministry of Agriculture and works witrh small farmers outside the agrarian
reform sector, providing them with credit and technical assistance. Its
operations in 1974 accounted for about 5X of total agricultural lending by
the banking system and specialized public institutions (Annex 4).
2.21      Non-institutional credit provided by processors and wholesalers is
significant. They offer credit usually to sugar beet, vegetable oil, fruit,
and tobacco producers, generally contracting for a certain area of production.
They supply seeds, fertilizers, and, sometimes, harvesting quipment or cash
and recover dues by deducting the amount advanced from the price paid to the
farmer when he delivers produce to the factory. Usually credit terms are
harder than under institutional credit.
C. Services to Agriculture
Organizational Structure
2.22      There are about 30 public agencies dealing with agriculture; they
are scattered in five different ministries and employ a staff of about 15,000,
although the number rose higher than 25,000 in 1973, double the size in 1970.
Overstaffing resulted in overlapping functions and excessive centralization
unresponsive to the needs of the agricultural sector. A substantial reduc-
tion of staff took place in 1975 coupled with a strong drive toward decen-
tralization.  The Government has employed a consulting firm to review the
situation and prepare a national plan for reorganization. The consultants
are partially financed by the Bank through Loan 1119-CH. Their report is
now under review by Government (para. 2.26).



-7-
SuDply of Inputs
2.23      Private firms, usually representing manufacturers, handle an
increasing part of supply to the agricultural sector. BECH purchases large
quantities of seasonal inputs, mainly fertilizers, and some machinery, and
distributes these items through its national system of warehouses. The
supply is considered satisfactory.
Technical Assistance
2.24      The Ministry of Agriculture, through SAG (Servicio Agricola y
Ganadero), is responsible for extension; it has 170 professionals, including
30 livestock specialists plus some 250 field technicians who attend land
reform beneficiaries cn a priority basis. The credit supplying agencies such
as CORFO, BECH and INDAP also provide valuable technical services to their
clients. Due to the Government's austerity measures, there are an increasing
number of well-qualified former Government technicians in the country. They
offer private contractual services to farmers and are expected to play a con-
siderable role in providing technical services to Project beneficiaries and
to complement limited Government services. The number of local consulting
firms increased from 10 to 15 in 1975, serving, particularly, export-oriented
producers of the type to be financed under the proposed Project. The Govern-
ment also maintains a veterinary service of 137 veterinarians, 150 technicians
and 100 workers responsible for basic regulatory and disease control functions.
In addition, the country has 600 to 700 veterinarians in private practice
(Annex 1).
Research
2.25      The principal agency responsible for agricultural research is INIA
(Instituto de Investigaciones Agropecuarias), a Government organization under
the Ministry of Agriculture. It maintains three regional research centers
and six sub-centers of which La Platina, near Santiago, is the most important.
INIA has 160 professionals, 95 technicians, 97 administrative personnel and
over 800 workers, and, although its staff has been reduced, its research is of
good quality as is the caliber of its staff as reflected in the generally high
standard of agricultural production practices observed throughout the country.
In addition, universities carry out basic and applied research of which the
University of Chile's research program is by far the most important. Inten-
sive farm management training, over a one-month period, is provided by ICIRA
(Instituto de Capacitacion e Investigaciones en Reforma Agraria).
D. Performance under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
2.26      A Bank loan of US$20 million equivalent to partially finance an
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project was signed June 4, 1975 and became effec-
tive on September 23, 1975. The loan finances 36% of a US$55.5 million
Project, with Government contributing 36% and sub-borrowers the remaining 28%.



-8-
The Project includes short-term production credit (82%), medium-term invest-
ment credit (17%) and technical assistance (1%). BECH, INDAP, CORFO, the
Cooperative Development Bank (IFICOOP) and seven commercial banks have signed
subsidiary loan agreements with CB. The Bank loan was disbursed by September
1976. Of the US$39 million equivalent of sub-loans made under the Project,
76.5% went to small farmers, owning up to 12 basic ha. The Project financed a
study by consultants (Booz-Allen and Hamilton, US) regarding the role and
reorganization of Government agencies which provide public services to the
agricultural sector that has been completed. Its findings and recommendations
are being reviewed by Government; final recommendations and subsequent plan
and timetable for implementation will be submitted to the Bank for comments by
January 1977.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Definition
3.01      The Project would be a lending program for the agricultural sector
encompassing livestock, fruits, vineyards and agro-industry. Over a three-
year commitment period, it would help to finance investments of on-farm
development, including mainly pasture improvement, breeding stock, livestock
handling facilities, machinery and equipment, establishment of orchards and
vineyards, and related processing facilities on loan terms ranging from five
to 15 years. Investments would be made by small- and a few medium-sized
farmers, both individuals and cooperatives, and by commercial enterprises in
case of agro-industries. An estimated 4,800 farmers would receive investment
credit through the Project, which for most benefitting farmers would be the
first time they received such credit. The Project would also finance some 80
agro-industrial enterprises. Investments would be supervised by qualified
technicians from participating lending institutions. An expected 50% of
lending funds would benefit small farmers with up to 12 basic ha each in the
lower income group.
3.02      The Republic of Chile would be the borrower and bear the exchange
risk; it would be responsible for Project execution through a Project Commis-
sion, using CB to on-lend Project funds under subsidiary loan agreements to
BECH, CORFO, INDAP and commercial banks (para 3.21).
3.03      The following table shows the major investments expected to be made
over a three-year commitment period. Typical models have been constructed,
analyzing the economic viability of proposed investments (Annex 8, Appendix
2). Sub-loans would be made to individual farmers or to cooperatives equal to
the size of one investment model as presented.



-9-
Total No.              Average
of Farmers             Investment
No. of Sub-   Total    and Agro-                per Sub-
Investments /3    loans Made    No. of  industrial                 project,    Total
to be            per Year       Sub-  Entrepreneurs  Total   including    Invest-
Financed          1    2   3    loans   Benefitting   Area   Contingencies  ment
(Basic     (US$)    (US$ '000)
Owned Ha)
Livestock:
a) dairy/beef    130  257 257    644          644         7,084      11,335        7,300
b) beef/sheep      24   47  47    118       1,054         9,440      31,207        3,700
Fruits:
a) table grapes/  80  158 158    396          792         19980      18,953        7,500
peaches/
nectarines
b) apples/almonds 94  188 188    470          940         3,290      17,029        8,000
Vineyards (for
wine only)       71  144 144    459       1,377        4,590      34,836       16,000
Agro-industry      16   32  32      80         80             -    250,000        20,000
Total:                      2,167     4,887        *26,384                  62§500
/1   Details on investment items are shown in Annex 7.
B. Detailed Features
Dairy/Beef Farms (Model I)
3.04      The Project would develop about 650 dairy/beef farms, primarily small
individual family farms which received their land under land reform and which
need financing (para 2.09). The development model is based on a 55-ha farm
(equivalent to 11 basic ha) in the central valley, Temperate zone, which
has an excellent potential for milk and beef production from pastures. About
90% of the investments in dairy/beef are expected to be in this zone. Before
development, each farm would typically have a carrying capacity of about 0.8
Animal Units (AU)/pasture ha and a stocking rate of 0.3 AU/pasture ha (assum-
ing 5 ha cultivated). At full development (Year 9), each farm would have a
carrying capacity of about 2.0 AU/pasture ha and a stocking rate of about
1.5 AU/pasture ha. Total investment per sub-borrower would be US$18,905
equivalent. The remaining 10% of investments in dairy/beef are expected to
be made around Santiago in the Mediterranean zone. These are generally
irrigated crop producing farms (10 to 12 basic ha), with about 25% forage or



- i0 -
pasture for livestock, of which dairying (fluid milk for Santiago) is impor-
tant. It is expected that about 300 farmers would be financed in this area;
of these about 150 would be individual farms run as discrete units while the
rest would be owned individually and receive separate sub-loans, but grouped
in about 10 cooperatives for administrative purposes. Average investment
would be about US$3,000 for each participating farmers. Total on-farm
investments would consist of pasture improvements and fence construction
(28%), purchase of breeding stock (23%), farm machinery (21%), a water supply
and milking shed (17%) and dairy equipment (11%) (Annex 8).
Beef/Sheep Farms (Cooperative or Individual)(Model II)
3.05      The Project would develop about 1,050 beef/sheep farms, mostly co-
operatives (asentamientos) established following the agrarian reform. The
model is based on a 700-ha farm (equivalent to 80 basic ha) in the Temperate
zone' s coastal belt, which has a good potential for beef and sheep production
from pastures. The model represents a 10-farm family cooperative. About 70%
of the investments in beef/sheep are expected to be made in the Temperate
zone, about 20% in the Mediterranean zone, and some 10% in Magallanes, Chile's
southernmost province, which also has a good potential for sheep and beef
production from natural and improved pastures.
3.06      It is expected that about 104 cooperatives and 14 individual far-
mers would benefit under the Project. Before development, each farm would
typically have a carrying capacity of about 0.4 AU/pasture ha and a stocking
rate of about 0.3 AU/pasture ha. At full development (Year 8), each farm
would have a carrying capacity of about 0.6 AU/pasture ha and a stocking rate
of about 0.6 AU/pasture ha. On-farm investments would consist of pasture
improvements (43%), purchase of breeding stock (22%), fence construction
(17%), machinery (9%), and water supply, yards and wool press (9%) (Annex 8).
Total investment for a typical cooperative would be about US$31,207.
Orchards (Models III and IV)
3.07      Sub-loans would be made for planting new orchards and rehabilitating
existing ones, mainly under irrigated conditions with two farmer families work-
ing together, and primarily in the central region of Chile. Two models are
presented (Annex 8) which depict important enterprises such as table grapes,
peaches, nectarines, apples, and almonds. However, farmers would invest in
other enterprises as well such as pears, plums, cherries, citrus, avocado,
chirimoya and papaya. Initial production increases would be export-oriented
but the domestic market would receive increasing emphasis as inflation recedes
and local prices recover from their current relatively low levels. Small
individual farmers (up to 12 basic ha), who, before the Project, were mostly
grain producers, are expected to make long-term investments, establishing
orchards or vineyards on only 1 ha at a time or possibly 2 ha, In case of
cooperatives, however, larger investments per sub-loan are expected. Medium-
size farmers would invest in 3 to 15 ha at a time.
3.08      The Project is expected to benefit about 800 farmers growing table
grapes and peaches or nectarines. The investment for a 5-ha irrigated orchard
would be US$18,953 (Annex 8) made over a two-year period for items such as



- 11 -
mechanization (42%), trellising and fencing (16%), planting material (15%),
labor (12%), transport (9%), and fertilization, pest and weed control (6%).
The model indicates the commitments and benefits involved in moving from a
5-ha annual cropping enterprise to an orchard of part table grapes (2 ha)
and part peaches/nectarines (3 ha), mostly for export. Also shown is a model
representing a small farm with 5 ha, investing in only 1 ha as a first step,
while, in the meantime, continuing production on 4 ha with other crops, mostly
annual.
3.09      Approximately 940 farmers growing mainly apples and almonds would
also benefit from the Project. The investment for a 7-ha irrigated orchard
would be US$17,029 (Annex 8) made over a two-year period for items such as
mechanization (50%), planting material (25%), labor (10%), transport (10%),
and fertilization, pest and weed control (5%). The model shows the commit-
ments and benefits involved in moving by stages from 7 ha planted with annual
crops before development to an orchard of part apples (5 ha) and part almonds
(2 ha), mostly for export.  Also shown is a model of a small farm with 7 ha,
investing only in 1 ha as a first step.
Vineyards (Model V)
3.10      The Project would finance the rehabilitation and planting of vine-
yards, both under rainfed and irrigated conditions, with three farmer families
working together in the central region of Chile. It is expected that about
1,400 farmers would benefit from the Project. A vineyard of 10 ha would
require an investment of US$34,836 (Annex 8) made over a two-year period
covering such items as mechanization (49%), trellising and fences (18%), labor
(9%), vines (8%), transport (9%), and fertilization, pest and weed control
(7%). The model indicates the commitments and benefits involved in rehabili-
tating part (4 ha) of existing irrigated vineyards and replanting part (6 ha)
with improved vines, mostly for export wine manufacture. Small farmers in the
south would also invest in grape production under rainfed conditions for bulk
wine and alcohol manufacture for the domestic market. The model shows the
cash flow of a small farmer with 10 ha developing only 1 ha as a first step.
Agro-industries
3.11      The Project would finance an estimated 80 sub-loans mainly for
dairy processing, fruit cold storage and packing, and wine production. Three
models have been developed for each of these types of enterprises (Annex 8)
to demonstrate economic viability under the present conditions in Chile but
investments under the Project would average about US$250,000 each, i.e.,
there would be many small investments (improvements) in ongoing enterprises
which would be appraised as outlined in paragraph 3.23.
3.12      Dairy Processing (Model VI).  Investments in dairy processing would
be mostly to expand plants. Investment items would include mainly weighing
tanks; pumps; centrifuges; can washers; heat exchangers; holding tanks; bottl-
ing lines; bottle washing units; equipment for making and packing butter, yo-
gurt, ice cream and such; installation; and initial working capital where
appropriate in case of new investments.



- 12 -
3.13      Fruit Cold Storage and Packing (Model VII).  Investments in the
orchard sector would be for construction of refrigerated depots for holding
fresh fruit. Most cold stores would be furnished with an adjacent line for
washing, grading and packing fruit in 20-kg boxes (mainly apples, pears and
grapes). Cold stores would be designed to operate at 0C and capacities
would range from 400 tons for individual producers to 59000 tons for coopera-
tives or associations of producers. Investment items would include con-
struction of insulated cold stores; refrigerating equipment; fruit packing
lines; corresponding shed, lift trucks, water and power supply, and other
infrastructure and auxiliary equipment; and initial working capital where
appropriate in case of new investments.
3.14      Wineries (Model VIII).  Investments in wineries would mostly be for
renovating old and obsolete facilities, including purchase of concrete fermen-
tation and holding vats, grape crushers, presses and portable pumps. An
increased demand for processing equipment such as filters, refrigerated steri-
lizers, refrigerated vats, demijohn and bottle filling and washing equipment
and labelling machines is also expected since the Government intends to pro-
hibit sale of wine in barrels in order to raise quality and prevent tax evasion.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
Cost Estimates
3.15      Total Project cost is estimated at US$62.5 million equivalent, of
which 40%, or US$25 million, would be foreign exchange. Cost estimates,
including foreign exchange requirements, are:
Percentage
Medium- and Long-term                                                   Foreign
Investment Categories /1        Local       Foreign       Total         Exchange
-- US$ Million ---
1.  Livestock                    5.9          5.1         11.0              46
2. Fruits, including grape
orchards                   10.4          5.1        15.5               33
3.  Vineyards                    9.0          7.0         16.0              44
4.  Agro-industry               12.2          7.8         20.0              39
Total:                     37.5         25.0        62.5               40
/1   Details on investment items are shown in Annex 7.
Costs have been estimated at March/April 1976 prices. A physical contingency
of 5% has been included for agro-industrial investments while an expected price
increase of 19% has been added to investment base-line costs for all investments.



- 13 -
This price increase is based on the assumption that there will be an 8.4%
annual international inflation rate in 1976, 7.8% in 1977 and 7.5% in 1978,
and that movements of the peso-dollar exchange rate will compensate for the
excess of internal over external inflation.
Financing
3.16      The Project cost of US$62.5 million equivalent would be financed by
a Bank loan of US$25 million equivalent, or 40% of Project cost, and would
cover the estimated foreign exchange cost. The Government would contribute
US$25 million equivalent (40%) and the remaining US$12.5 million equivalent
(20%) would come from sub-borrowers' contributions. The financing plan for
individual components of the Project is summarized in the following table:
Medium- and Long-term             Sub-
Investment Categories           borrowers   Government    Bank           Total
-               US$ Million 
1.  Livestock                     2.2           4.4         4.4          11.0
2. Fruits, including grape
orchards                    3.1           6.2         6.2          15.5
3.  Vineyards                     3.2           6.4         6.4           16.0
4.  Agro-industry                 4.0           8.0         8.0          20.0
Total:                 12.5          25.0        25.0          62.5
%:                    20             40         40            100
The Republic of Chile would be the borrower and carry the exchange risk.  The
Bank loan of US$25 million would be for 17 years, including three years and a
half of grace, at the standard rate of interest (Annex 5).  The Government
would on-lend the proceeds of the loan through CB to participating banks and
lending agencies. CB would establish a Project Account to which the Govern-
ment would, as a condition of loan effectiveness, make available US$7 million
equivalent to start lending operations. It would further agree to maintain
sufficient amounts available therein until the equivalent of US$50 million of
sub-loans had been lent to Project beneficiaries. Sub-loan repayments from
the Project would accrue to the Project Account in CB and amounts not required
to meet amortization payments on the Bank loan would be used for further
lending for the agricultural sector. Assurances on the above were obtained
during negotiations.
3.17      CB would on-lend under subsidiary loan agreements to participating
banks and lending agencies (para 3.27). The signing of such subsidiary loan
agreements, acceptable to the Bank, between the CB and BECH, INDAP and at least
one other participating bank or agency would be a condition of effectiveness.
A minimum of 20% of the lending program, or US$10 million equivalent, would



- 14 -
be reserved for lending by INDAP to small farmers holding up to 5 basic ha who
are outside the reformed sector. Assurances on these points were obtained
during negotiations.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.18      The on-farm investment items to be financed for the approximately
4,800 farmers throughout Chile over a four-year investment period are varied
and would not be suitable for bulk procurement through international com-
petitive bidding. The farm machinery and agro-industrial units to be financed
would vary in nature, size, capacity and number. Therefore, investment items
would be procured through normal commercial channels. Animals for breeding
and planting material are available from local sources and are of good quality.
Investors seeking sub-loans for agro-industrial investments would be required
to obtain at least three price quotations from suppliers for machinery and
equipment before purchasing such items, An assurance was obtained on this.
Major suppliers of farm machinery from at least six Bank member countries are
represented in Chile and service is satisfactory. Foreign exchange is made
available to importers by CB. BECH, which sells substantial amounts of farm
machinery and fertilizer to its clients, seeks quotations from several suppliers.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that BECH would continue the
above procedures and obtain at least three quotations from suppliers from Bank
member countries or Switzerland.
Disbursement
3.19      The Bank would disburse against statements of expenditures 50% of
the amount disbursed by participating lending institutions to Project
beneficiaries; CB would certify and document such expenditures appropriately.
The documentation for expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank for
review but would be retained by CB and made available for inspection by
the Bank during the course of supervision missions. With participating lend-
ing institutions' commitments extending over three years, their disbursements
would be spread over four years (two-year investment period per sub-borrower)
and Bank disbursements over four and a half years. A schedule of estimated
Bank disbursements is given in Annex 6. In the event expenditures under any
category provided for should decrease, the amount of the loan allocated for
such category and no longer required could, at the request of the borrower,
be reallocated to another category.



- 15 -
E. Organization and Management
Administration
3.20      A Project Commission under the chairmanship of CB would act as
administering agency for the Project. The Commission would be composed of
representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Economy, and Agriculture and
members of the participating banks and lending agencies. It would be respons-
ible for supervision, coordination and implementation of the Project. A Pro-
ject Commission with similar responsibilities was established for administer-
ing the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project which is partly financed out of
Loan 1119-CH. The same Commission would be responsible for the proposed
Project and would meet at least once a month. During negotiations, assurances
were received on this point.
3.21      CB through its Credit Department would be responsible for coordina-
tion of the Project with participating banks and lending institutions. CB
would also supervise Project implementation. Credit to sub-borrowers would
be channeled through banks and financial institutions under subsidiary loan
agreements with CB, satisfactory to the Bank. BECH, the principal agricul-
tural credit agency-in Chile, would be dealing with all types of farms except
those below 5 basic ha for which INDAP is specialized and would be respon-
sible. CORFO, because of its specialization and experience, would extend
credit mainly to dairy and beef/sheep farmers. It is expected that these
three organizations together would carry out most of the Project. Commercial
banks and other finance institutions would also be eligible.
3.22      To insure that investments financed under the Project are for the
purposes authorized and that sub-projects are technically, financially, and
economically sound, CB would, through subsidiary loan agreements (para 3.27),
require all lending institutions to follow sub-loan evaluation procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Lending institutions would also be required, as a
condition of participation, to employ sufficient qualified staff to insure
Proiect implementation as required. Assurances on this point were obtained
during negotiations.
3.23      All sub-loans would be based on detailed investment plans, which
would demonstrate the technical, financial (including cash flows) and economic
justification of the proposed investment, and would take into consideration
the key production coefficients included in Project models. Farmers would
be assisted by the lending institution in the preparation of farm development
plans, while applications for sub-loans for agro-industrial development would
be supported by feasibility studies. The development plan or feasibility
study would form part of all sub-loan applications. Sub-loans exceeding



- 16 -
US$100,000 equivalent for fruits, vineyards and livestocks (on-farm invest-
ments) 1/ and exceeding US$200,000 equivalent for agro-industry would require
prior Bank approval. An assurance on the above was obtained during negotia-
tions.
3.24      To allow monitoring and evaluation of the economic effects of
Project investments, CB would establish a system, satisfactory to the Bank,
under which technical and financial data would be collected on at least 5%
of the sub-borrowers in each category. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations. Bank supervision missions would assist CB
in setting up such a system.
Lending Terms and Conditions
3.25      The CB would finance sub-loans granted by participating banks and
lending agencies in accordance with the following schedule:
Interest
Amount of         Rate to         Interest
Sub-loans to                   Loan Financed    Participating       Rate to
Beneficiaries /1                   by CB           Agencies      Beneficiaries /2
1.  On-farm Investments             100%          2.5% - 4.5%        6% -  8%
2.  Agro-industry                   100%          4.5% - 8.5%        8% - 12%
/1   Including start-up working capital in case of new agro-industrial
enterprises (five to 15 years).
/2   Provided, however, that any such interest rate shall not exceed by
more than 3.5 percentage points the interest charged by CB on the
corresponding portion of the subsidiary loan used to refinance such
sub-loan.
Cash flows of typical investments under the Project indicate that the follow-
ing repayment periods for loans to sub-borrowers would be appropriate, but
in no case would a sub-loan under the Project be made for a period of less
than five years. Sub-loans would usually be made for up to 80% of investment
cost but small farmers with up to 12 basic ha could receive up to 100% financ-
ing. Since medium-size farmers and entrepreneurs may require less than 80%
financing, it is expected that overall sub-loan financing would average 80% of
total Project cost. The purchase of breeding stock included in the livestock
producing investment plans, would not exceed the equivalent of 30% of the
total cash of such invesment plans, and 50% in any individual case.
1/   On past experience, it is expected that there will be no sub-loan
requests beyond this limit, but any such exceptional requests, not
likely to exceed a dozen, may be made, probably by cooperative group-
ings of farmers and ranchers.



- 17 -
Maximum          Maximum
Grace         Amortization
Period           Period           Total
(in Years) 
Dairy/Beef                       5                  6               11
Beef/Sheep                       5                  7              12
Fruits, including grape
orchards                       5                 10              15
Vineyards                        5                 10              15
Agro-industry                    3                  8               11
These periods would not be exceeded without the Bank's prior approval.
3.26      Outstanding sub-loan principals would be adjusted on the basis
of the Consumer Price Index (IPC). The IPC is established by the National
Institute of Statistics and published by the CB every month in the Diario
Oficial (Government gazette). The procedures to be used for the application
of the adjustments would be in accordance with Decree Law No, 455, dated May
13, 1974, as amended. The proposed interest rates, although high, are in
line with the present ongoing lending rates charged for similar loans and
are within sub-borrowers' capacity to repay. Lending institutions would be
allowed a 3.5% interest spread to cover their costs including technical
assistance and supervision required by Decree Law No. 1533 dated July 29,
1976; these procedures were reviewed during negotiations and found satis-
factory to the Bank.
3.27      Subsidiary loan agreements between GB and lending institutions
would, among other things: (i) incorporate on-lending terms between CB and
lending institutions and between lending institution and beneficiary
(types of sub-loans eligible, percentage to be financed, rate of interest,
procurement, condition of establishing a Project Account and audit); (ii) pro-
vide that repayment of loans granted by CB would be the same as the repay-
ment schedule prescribed for sub-borrowers to the lending institution; (iii)
provide for the employment of technical staff by the lending institution;
and (iv) cover the obligations of CB and the lending institution for the pro-
vision of complementary short-term loans to finance working capital needs
of sub-borrowers. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that terms
and conditions as specified in this and preceding paragraphs would be adhered
to.
F. Accounts and Auditing
3.28      Accounts of the banks which are expected to participate in the
Project are acceptable and properly audited by the Superintendency of Banks.
However, accounts of the specialized public institutions, CORFO and INDAP,
are inadequate and, according to the auditor reports prepared by the State



- 18 -
Controller which operates in an independent manner, do not permit a fair
analysis of their financial standing. CORFO's main deficiencies are iden-
tified as: poor evaluation of assets of enterprises converted to private
ownership, insufficient information oni reserves, and unrealistic enterprise
values acquired from the consolidated balance sheet, INDAP's accounting
procedures are considered inadequate. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that (i) within six months of subsidiary loan signature, CORFO would
produce a consolidated balance sheet reflecting the value of all assets and
liabilities to the full satisfaction of the State Controller; (ii) within
three months of subsidiary loan signature INDAP shall take measures, satis-
factory to the Bank, to improve its accounting system and procedures; and
(iii) separate Project Accounts would be set up in all participating lending
institutions;these accounts would be audited by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank and copies sent to the Bank within six months of the end of
each financial year.
IV. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
Production
4.01      Incremental production financed under the Project would be the
result of the intensification of livestock production from underutilized
grazing land, the conversion of cropping land to orchards and vineyards and
the improvement of existing orchards and vineyards. Yield increases from the
Project are based on current yields on reasonably well managed farms and are
considered realistic. However, a sensitivity analysis assuming 10% lower
benefits still shows satisfactory results (para 5.01). The projected incre-
mental production arising from the Project per annum at full development
(compared with 1974 production levels) is as follows: 2,300 tons of beef;
1,300 tons of mutton; 33,500 tons of milk; 245 tons of wool and some 200,000
tons of fruits.
Marketing
4.02      Project production of milk and meat should be regarded as import
substitutes. Although limited quantities of dairy products would be exported
to Latin America Free Trade Association ( ALALC) countries, it is expected that
Chile will remain a net importer of dairy products in the foreseeable future.
About 30% to 50% of Project production of orchard produce (table grapes,
apples, peaches, nectarines and nuts) is expected to be exported to North
America, Europe and ALALC countries and the remainder would be consumed
domestically. Produce quality is the main constraint to expanding exports
of orchard produce and it is expected that exports would increase as quality
improves. At present, only a small amount of Chilean wine (about 1%) is
exported because of high internal consumption (40 liters/capita). Export
prospects for wine are good, and, because of favorable prices to producers,
it is expected that a substantial amount of wine produced under the Project
would be exported. The processing and marketing of the incremental production
under the Project is expected to be handled primarily by the existing private



- 19 -
and cooperative enterprises. The Project's agro-industry component will not
only help to ensure adequate cold storage and processing facilities for exist-
ing and incremental project production but should also contribute signifi-
cantly to improved produce quality.
Prices
4.03      The price situation for Project commodities is expected to be favor-
able. Free market forces now determine the prices of all products affected
by the Project. Producer milk prices were controlled by the Government for
several years up to September 1975, but are now set by the market conditions.
The prices for cattle, sheep and wool are considered adequate to encourage
investments. Orchard and vineyards (including wine) producer prices are
increasing from the low level recorded in 1973. Beneficiaries financed under
the proposed Project are expected to supply high quality produce primarily for
export, and export prices are attractive because produce is sold in US dollar
currency, thus compensating for domestic inflation. Furthermore, as Chile
recovers from its severe depression, it can reasonably be expected that
producer prices for all commodities to be consumed domestically will improve
substantially over the next few years.
Producer Benefits
4.04      A summary of producer benefits, derived from illustrative models, is
given on the following page:



- 20 -
Small Farmers-1/               Medium Farmers2/             Agro-Industries
Fruit
Table                          Table                           Cold-
Grapes/                        Grapes/                 Milk   storage   Wine
Dairy/ Necta-  Apples/          Beef/ Necta-  Apples!         Proces-  and       Pro-
Beef   rines   Almonds  Wine  Sheep rines   Almonds  Wine sing   Packing   cessing
Investment
Area (basic
ha)           11      1         1       1      80     5         7      10    -        -          -
Investment
Cost (US$
equivalent) 15,260  2,585   1,954   2,829 25,190 15,299  13,747  28,120 250,000 250,000 250,000
Net Income
before De-
velopment
(US$ equi-                3         85     3/
valent)         602    562-           3,002-1,456    534        749   2,740
Net Income
at Full
Develop-
ment (US$
equiva-
lent        6,986  2,707   2,767    4,184 10,356  9,896  13,141  10,549  55,500  52,250  52,000
Debt Ser-
vice at
Full De-
velopment
(US$ equi-
valent)      3,301    385      291      421  3,871  1,824   1,639   3,352  38,500  38,500  34,750
Incremen-
tal Net
Income
after
Debt
Service
(US$
equiva-
lent)       3,083  1,760   1,620        761  5,207  7,538  10,753   4,457  17,000  13,750  17,000
Financial
Rate of
Return (M)      20     22       19        14     16      22      19       14       17      19       22
1/  Small farmers receive finance to cover 100% of investment costs, excluding family labor. For
comparative purposes, net income before and at full development for both farmer cate-
gories is exclusive of family labor.
2/ Medium farmers receive finance to cover 80% of investment costs, including hired labor.
3/ It is assumed that the small farmer develops the orchard or vineyard on one hectare
at a time drawing, however, on his existing crop area for subsistence and cash income.



- 21 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The Project is of high priority because it would reduce constraints
imposed on the Chilean agricultural sector by the lack of foreign exchange for
investments. Removal of this constraint should increase output which would
lead to higher exports, increased domestic consumption, foreign exchange
savings through import substitution, increased employment and improvement in
the incomes of the poorer classes in Chile. Furthermore, the Project would
supplement the Bank's recent Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1119-CH),
which mainly provided short-term credit for crop production and, to a lesser
extent, medium-term financing. The overall economic rate of return is esti-
mated at 27%. Sensitivity analysis, assuming decreasing benefits by 10% and
increasing investment costs by 10% and 20%, respectively, still shows satisfac-
tory rates of return (Annex 9). The economic rates of return for Project
enterprises are as follows: dairy/beef, 28%; beef/sheep, 26%; table grapes/
peaches/nectarines, 31%; apples/almonds, 26%; wine grapes, 22%; milk pro-
cessing, 26%; fruit cold storage and packing, 22%; and wine processing, 39%.
5.02      The estimated value of the incremental output of milk, meat, wool,
breeding heifers, fruits and wine grapes would be US$35 million equivalent
per year when fully developed and valued at October 1975 prices. In addition,
the incremental added value from agro-industrial processing would be US$11
million per year. Increased production of milk would save foreign exchange
for imports and increased fruit and wine production should lead to higher ex-
ports. The net foreign exchange savings of the Project at full development
would thus be about US$46 million per year.
5.03      Direct beneficiaries under the Project would be (i) some 4,300 small
farmers, of whom 2,500 are estimated to be owning up to 5 ha; (ii) an estimated
500 medium-size farmers; and (iii) about 80 agro-industrial enterprises. The
Project would also provide employment on farms to roughly 4,100 people and in
agro-industries.  It would also increase the family labor used on the 4,800
farms, thus lowering underemployment. Furthermore, it would provide employment
in industries supplying goods and services to farms and agro-industries.
5.04      The Project would help the poorer classes.  Twenty percent of Pro-
ject funds for farm development would be allocated specifically for the
poorest category of small farmers who are serviced by INDAP. The remaining
funds would be extended primarily to the beneficiaries of land reform. They
are poor farmers who were farm workers prior to receiving title to their
farms under land reform. It is estimated that the overwhelming portion of
individual farmers investing in dairy/beef. table grapes/nectarines and
apples/almonds will fall into the lower 30% income group of Chile. The
Project would also provide jobs for unskilled labor both on the farms and in
agro-industries.



- 22 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND REC0O11ENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Government would:
(i)  establish a Project Account in CB and make available
US$25 million equivalent to it and use repayments for
similar lending to agriculture (para 3.16);
(ii)  carry the exchange risk (para 3.16);
(iii)  cause CB to enter into subsidiary loan agreements with
participating banks and lending institutions (paras 3.17
and 3.27);
(iv)  cause CB to reserve in the Project Account a minimum of
US$10 million eouivalent for lending by INDAP to small
farmers holding up to 5 basic ha who are outside the
reformed sector (para 3.17);
(v) cause BECH to seek at least three quotations from suppliers
from Bank member countries or Switzerland when importing
machinery and fertilizers and sub-borrowers for agro-
industrial investments to seek at least three price quota-
tions before purchasing machinery and equipment (para 3.18);
(vi)  cause the Project Commission established under Loan 1119-CH
to coordinate and supervise the proposed Project and to meet
at least once a month (para 3.20);
(vii)  cause CB to require participating lending institutions to
employ sufficient qualified staff to insure Project im-
plementation (para 3.22);
(viii)  cause participating lending institutions to seek prior Bank
approval for sub-loans exceeding US$100,000 equivalent for
fruits, vineyards and livestock and US$200,000 equivalent
for agro-industry (para 3.23);
(ix)  cause the CB to establish a monitoring system, satisfactory to
the Bank, collecting technical and financial data on at least
5% of sub-borrowers in each category to evaluate Project
effectiveness (para 3.24);
(x) cause participating lending institutions to on-lend Project
funds under terms and conditions as outlined in paragraphs
3.22 through 3.27;



- 23 -
(xi)  cause CORFO to produce an acceptable balance sheet reflecting
the value of all assets and liabilities satisfactory to the
State Controller (para 3.28);
(xii)  cause INDAP to take measures to improve its accounting
system and procedures (para 3.28); and
(xiii)  cause participating lending institutions to establish separate
Project Accounts and have them audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and copies to be sent to the Bank within
six months of the end of each financial year (para 3.28).
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be that:
(i)  a Project Account had been established and the Government
had made available US$7 million equivalent to it (para 3.16);
and
(ii)  the CB had entered into subsidiary loan agreements with BECH,
INDAP and at least one other participating bank or agency
(para 3.17).
6.03      With the agreements reached as mentioned above, the proposed Project
is suitable for a Bank loan to the Republic of Chile of US$25 million for a
term of 17 years, including three years and a half of grace.
November 29, 1976



I



ANNEX 1
Page 1
CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
The Agricultural Sector
A. Background
Location and Size
1.        Chile is sub-divided into 25 provinces, and it stretches 4,300 km
0   0         0   0
along South America's Pacific Coast between 17 30 S and 55 59 S. The coun-
2
try averages about 175 km in width and has an area of some 750,000 km 2
Chile's population is about 10.4 million (1974), of which about three-fourths
is urban. Some 90% of the population lives in the central part between the
Aconcagua River and Puerto Montt. Population is growing at about 1.7% per
annum (Map).
Topography and Climate
2.        Two mountain ranges run parallel to the Pacific. The Andes to the
east run the entire length of the country,forming a natural frontier with
Bolivia and Argentina. Further west, the coastal range rises steeply from
the ocean but extends to latitude 42 S only. In between is the central
valley, ranging in width from 40 to 80 km and containing almost all of
Chile's agricultural land.  Both the central valley and the lower elevations
of the coastal range are submerged beyond 42 S, leaving a long chain of
islands backing onto a rugged and fiorded coastline.
3.        The climate is hot and dry in the north and changes progressively
to cold and wet in the south, a transition from desert to maritime conditions
(Mag).  Mean annual temperatures decrease from about 18 C in the far north to
6.5 C in the far south. Conversely, mean annual rainfall increases from less
than 25 mm in the northernmost part to some 2,800 mm in the south. These tem-
perature and rainfall gradients create five major ecological zones--Desert,
Arid, Mediterranean, Temperate, and Humid.
Ecological Zones and Their Agriculture
4.        The Desert zone in the north and the Arid zone to the south are
both too dry for cropping and, apart from a few irrigated river valleys and
some small sheep and goat operations in the foothills of the Andes, neither
is suitable for agriculture.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
5.        The Mediterranean zone stretches from the Aconcagua River to the
Bio-Bio River (33 S - 37 S) and has a climate characterized by hot dry sum-
mers and cool wet winters.  Droughts last six to seven months in the northern
parts and decline to three to four months in the southern parts.  Chile's
main cropping, vegetable, fruit, orchard, and vine producing areas and pop-
ulation centers are located in this zone. Crops (including wheat, maize,
barley, forages, tobacco and sunflowers), fruits, orchards and vineyards are
almost entirely dependent on irrigation.  livestock operations are relatively
intensive, supplying milk, pork, and poultry products to the urban centers.
The Secano central coastal strip (about 1.4 million ha) is an area of hilly
rolling land running for about 350 km along the coast from Melipilla-to
Cauquenes, extending inland about 40 km from the coast and located in Santiago,
Colchagua Curico, Talca, and Maule Provinces. The vegetation is mainly native
pasture with scattered Acacia-type bush. Sheep and, to a lesser extent, beef
are the main farming enterprises. Some wheat is also grown but yields are very
low and only scattered areas are suited for cultivation.
6.        The Temperate zone lies between 37 S and 42 S and encompasses the
Provinces of Bio-Bio, Malleco, Cautin, Valdivia, Osorno, Llanquihue, and Chiloe.
The zone contains about 9.5 million ha of agricultural land, about 85% of
which is under permanent pasture and the remaining 15% under cultivation of
wheat, sugar beet, potatoes and other temperate crops. Droughts are short-
lived in the northern part, rarely lasting more than two or three months, and
are non-existent from 40 S to the zone boundary.  Three distinct farming re-
gions are included in the temperate zone--central valley, coastal belt and
Andean foothills.  The central valley runs north and south through the center
of the zone averaging 50 km in width. Its potential for both pasture and crop
production is extremely high because of its volcanic soils and favorable cli-
mate. Average rainfall is about 1,250 mm and it is well distributed over the
year.  Average temperature is about 12 0C.  The coastal belt lies between the
central valley and the sea and is characterized by undulating topography and
average annual rainfall of about 80 mm. Its red lateritic soils are poorer
than those of the central valley and there is a pronounced dry spell in sum-
mer. Beef, and to a lesser extent sheep, are the main farming enterprises,
with only about 10% of the area cultivated (wheat, oats and rapeseed). The
Andean foothills pose more variable farming conditions than those of other
regions. Average rainfall is high (about 2,000 mm) and a wider selection of
crops are cultivated.
7.        The Humid zone starts at 42 S and extends to the southern tip of
Chile. This zone is mountainous, humid, and windswept. Sheep and beef farm-
ing and forestry are the major agricultural industries.
8.        In general, Chile's Mediterranean climate is excellent for growing
fruits and grapes. Summers are generally free of hail and are warm and dry
which permit ripening and harvest with a minimum of the fungus diseases that
occur when rains fall during this period. Rainfall is deficient, however, and
virtually all fruit crops must be irrigated. The climate is unique in that it



ANNEX 1
Page 3
permits cold-sensitive crops such as avocados and lemons to thrive along side
of drupe fruits like peaches and plums which require cold weather--as much as
1,500 hours below 450F during the winter months--in order to grow normally.
Unless the drupes receive sufficient "winter chilling," buds may drop from
the tree before opening and/or the buds may open very erratically over a
longer period during the spring (delayed foliation), which can result in poor
fruit set and a small crop. This has occurred occasionally but has not been
extensive enough or occurred frequently enough to pose a threat to the fruit
industry. Frosts occur from time to time, both in the Aconcagua valley to the
north and in the southern provinces. However, frost areas are well defined
and fortunately little frost damage occurs, allowing earlier season fruit set
and harvest than is feasible in most other producing countries.
9.        Chile's climate is unique also in that it has hundreds of micro-
climates--small areas (as small as 10 ha, as large as 1,000) that differ in
climate (usually temperature) from each other. Thus, avocados may grow well
in a small area while half a mile away the climate may be too cold. Weather
data can often be of little help in predicting the performance of a species
at a specific location only a short distance from the weather observation
point. Fortunately, most of the farmers in areas being considered for ex-
panded fruit plantings have had many years experience in fruit growing and
their knowledge is a helpful guide regarding local micro-climates.
10.       Chile has about 350,000 ha of soil suitable for orchards and table
grapes between the Aconcagua valley to the north and the Bio-Bio River to the
south. The location and extent of each block of soil suitable for trees and
grapes is recorded on a series of soil maps.
Agricultural Land
11.       Chile's total agricultural land covers only about one-third, or 25
million ha, of the country (74 million ha). Only 1.2 million ha are regularly
irrigated (another 750,000 ha are intermittently irrigated); 4.1 million ha are
classified as dry land which is arable; and 19.8 million ha are dry land but
not arable. The following table gives further details of land use:



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Million Ha
Unproductive                           49.0
Forest and Woodland                    10.0
Agricultural                           15.0
Total Land Area:                 74.0
Cultivated                              1.4
Fallow, Idle and Rotated Pasture        2.9
Total Arable:                     4.3
Improved Pastures                       2.7
Natural Pastures                        8.0
Total Pastures:                  10.7
12.       There is considerable potential for expansion of crop production by
increasing the amount of land under cultivation. Cultivated land devoted to
production of major crops was reduced during the past administration to levels
even lower than usual because of uncertainties over agricultural policies,
farm takeovers, and the breakdown in distribution of inputs and commodities.
Pasture and grazing lands have also been underutilized.
Agriculture in the Economy
13.       Agriculture's contribution to national output is small and has been
steadily declining. According to national accounts, its share in 1973 was 6%
of GNP, down from 19% in 1960. However, it is estimated that the sector's
real contribution to GNP is about 50% higher than indicated if measured at
world market prices. The share of employment in agriculture, as compared to
total employment, has also dropped, from 31% in 1960 to 26% in 1970 and to
23% in 1973. The agricultural balance of trade deficit decreased from a high
of US$576 million in 1973 to US$418 million in 1974 and is expected to be
about US$215 million in 1975. While the country's agricultural land is
relatively well endowed in relation to climate, soils, rainfall and irriga-
tion facilities, production has gone up at a very slow rate over the last 10
years. The main reasons have been the inefficient use of resources and the
lack of continuity in agricultural policy in general and price policy in
particular, plus a climate of uncertainty surrounding the lengthy agrarian
reform process that gradually affected investments adversely. Agriculture
value added grew by an annual average of only 2% between 1965 and 1974, while
fruit, wine, and milk production experienced annual increases of only 3.2%,
1.7% and 1.2%, respectively. At the same time, the value of Chile's principal
annual crops decreased by an average of 0.7% per annum.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
14.       The present administration is attempting to restore stability to the
sector and assist the private sector in increasing output. The present Gov-
ernment's objectives in 1974 was to restore production to the 1970 level and
expand further thereafter. This first objective was reached with the harvest
of 1974/75. It was achieved by making supplies available, supported by agri-
cultural credit and appropriate prices to farmers and by initiating a massive
land distribution program. Prospects for 1975/76 crop year appear good but
production is expected to exceed the 1974/75 level only slightly. With regard
to longer term production objectives, specific programs are underway: (a) ex-
pansion and rehabilitation of irrigated areas; (b) a 1975-80 reforestation
program of 350,000 ha creating employment in the order of 8,000 man-year jobs;
(c) expansion of production, mainly for the export market based on Chile's
comparative advantage in fruits, vegetables, and vineyards; and (d) invest-
ments in dairy/beef/sheep production aimed at increasing domestic production
and reducing imports.
15.       Despite an increase in cattle numbers from 2.8 million in 1965 to
3.2 million in 1974, the volume of marketed beef and milk decreased from 1971
to 1973, due to low, controlled producer prices. Beef dropped from 166,400
tons to 137,000 tons, while milk went from 940 million liters to 878 million
(Table 1). There were signs in 1974, however, that both beef and milk produc-
tion were beginning to recover.
16.       Existing data on fresh fruit production are not very reliable.
Recent best estimates from CORFO indicate that supplies have been overestimated
in earlier years. Production for the 1973/74 season has been measured by an
on-farm survey by CORFO and was only 539,000 tons, almost 60% less than the
estimate by ODEPA for the previous year (Table 1). With the low prices pre-
vailing over the last two or three years, it is probable that much fresh fruit
was not harvested and rotted in the orchard, thereby distorting the statis-
tics.
17.       Wine production also showed the impact of uncertainties affecting
the country during the 1970-75 period. Wine production dropped sharply from
the 1970/71 figure but has shown a small recovery for the 1973/74 season, up
4.5% over the 1972/73 season (Table 1).
Agricultural Trade
18.       Recent increases in domestic production combined with decreasing
consumer buying power and a more realistic exchange rate have served to curb
food imports, boost exports, and improve the balance of trade. Recently,
Chile has relied heavily on food imports to bridge the gap between lagging
domestic production and growing internal demand. This trend was briefly ac-
celerated during the early 1970s when nominal wages rose to high levels re-
sulting in unprecedented demand for foodstuffs. Food imports rose from US$140



ANNEX 1
Page 6
million in 1965 to US$595 million in 1973, then fell to US$472 million in
1974. They are estimated to be around US$350 million in 1975. Wheat, sugar,
corn, and oils have been the most important food imports (US$389 million in
1974), accounting for over 80% in value.
Production Exports and Imports of Agricultural Products
Year:  1965 1966 1967 1968 1969 1970 1971 1972 1973 1974 1975
Index of Value of
Principal Agricultural
Products (1965=100)       100  106  112  114  106  116  115  121   96  109
Value of Exports of
Agricultural and
Fishery Products
(in US$ million)          23   21   23   25   27   33   29   19   25   54   86
Value of Food Imports
(in US$ million)         140  162  168  166  166  168  260  405  595  472  361
Balance of Trade in
Agriculture
(in US$ million)        -117 -141 -145 -141 -139 -135 -231 -386 -570 -417 -275
19.       Agricultural exports, which averaged US$24 million per year between
1965 and 1973, increased to US$54 million in 1974 and reached US$110 million
in 1975. Leading agricultural exports in 1974 were fresh fruits (US$18 mil-
lion), beans (US$14 million) and lentils (US$5 million). Wine exports, valued
at US$1.8 million in 1970, increased to US$2.8 million in 1973 and US$3.6 mil-
lion in 1974. Major purchasers of Chilean wines in 1974 were Venezuela
(US$0.52 million), Brazil (US$0.51 million), and the United States (US$0.44
million).
20.       During the first five months of 1975, leading exports were table
grapes (US$13 million), apples (US$12 million), sugar (US$8 million) 1/, and
wool (US$6 million). Grapes were exported mainly to the United States,
Brazil and Venezuela; apples to Colombia, Venezuela, Holland and Belgium;
and wines to Venezuela, Brazil, the United States and Sweden.
1/   An unexpected 70% increase in domestic sugar production in 1975 placed
Chile in the position of exporting sugar (US$8 million) and also import-
ing sugar (US$107 million) which was contracted during 1974.



ANNEX I
Page 7
Services to Agriculture
21.       Organizational Structure.  The approximately 30 public agencies
dealing with agriculture encompassed five ministries and employed over 15,000
people in 1975, reduced from 25,000 in 1970. Overstaffing resulted in over-
lapping functions and excessive centralization which proved unwieldy and un-
responsive to the needs of the agricultural sector. The Government's policy
towards agriculture has as its main objectives consolidation of the present
administrative organization and decentralization of decision-making. To
achieve these aims, the country has been divided into 12 regions, in three of
which the Ministry has already implemented new trial systems to improve coor-
dination between all the agencies involved. It is expected that regionaliza-
tion will be completed within four years. In addition, the Government has
employed consultants to review the present situation under the Bank's Agricul-
tural Rehabilitation Project. The consultants' final report is being completed
and the Government's subsequent plan and timetable for implementing their
recommendations will be submitted to the Bank for comments by January 1977.
22.       Technical Services.  The Ministry of Agriculture has four agencies
directly servicing farmers: (a) Servicio Agricola y Ganaderia, Ministerio de
Agricultura (SAG); (b) Corporacion de la Reforma Agraria (CORA); (c) Instituto
de Desarrollo Agropecuario (INDAP); and (d) Instituto de Investigaciones
Agropecuarias (INIA). Historically, SAG has concentrated on regulatory
functions and provided limited extension services to large- and medium-sized
farmers; CORA has been responsible for implementing agrarian reform and
servicing affected farmers; INDAP has provided technical assistance to the
minifundistas and administered subsidies; and INIA has been responsible for
research.
23.       Extension.  SAG is responsible for agricultural extension and em-
ploys 170 professionals, including 30 veterinarians, plus about 250 techni-
cians. Technicians visit farms and each is expected to service some 200 farm-
ers (in 10 groups of 20). Specialists in six main subjects (horticulture,
animal production, fruits and vineyards, cereals and field crops, rural econ-
omies, and rural credit) are distributed around the country to service the
farming community. Priority is given to beneficiaries of the land reform
program. To service these, the extension service requires about 50 additional
agricultural engineers and 90 technicians, but the number of new appointments
will depend on the outcome of the reorganization study (para 21). SAG's
effectiveness is curtailed by lack of transport and working capital. In
addition, CORFO, BECH, INDAP and private banks provide valuable technical
assistance to their clients. INDAP is responsible for servicing the very
small producers. Cooperatives also provide technical assistance to their
members.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
24.       Due to the Government's austerity measures, there is an increasing
number of unemployed, but well qualified, technicians in the country offering
private contractual technical services to farmers. For example, the number
of local consulting firms increased from 10 to 15 during 1975, servicing,
particularly, export-oriented producers of the type to be financed under the
proposed Project. Up to 1973, CORFO maintained a list of specialists who
could provide technical advisory services for any type of rural investment,
and borrowers were required, under the terms of the loan, to select one to
assist them during the loan term.
25.       Research.  INIA is the principal agency responsible for agricultural
research. It maintains three principal research centers, of which La Platina,
near Santiago, is the most important, and six sub-centers. Limited research
programs are maintained on fruit and viticulture, livestock and field crops.
INIA's staff comprises 160 professionals, 95 technicians, 97 administrative
personnel and over 800 other staff. INIA is short of funds and depends heav-
ily on revenues from produce sales for working capital. Despite severe opera-
tional difficulties and extensive reductions in personnel, the ongoing re-
search, particularly for fruits and vineyards, is of a good standard as is
the caliber of the professional staff. In addition, Chile draws heavily on
overseas technology, particularly from the USA (California) in fruits and
grapes, and from New Zealand in dairying and agrostology. With respect to
livestock, INIA is producing results which are important to pasture/forage-
based production.
26.       Besides INIA, five universities carry out basic and applied agri-
cultural research. The University of Chile makes by far the largest contribu-
tion through its agricultural faculty and two research farms. Ongoing re-
search is assisted by small grants from overseas or from Chilean industry,
and by receipts for produce from the university's farms.
27.       Education and Training.  Agricultural education and training is
provided at three levels: higher grade agricultural engineers, medium-grade
technicians, and lower grade farmers. Graduate (engineer) training is pro-
vided at five universities with agricultural faculties. The course takes
five years. Middle level training is provided by some 22 agricultural
schools which award a degree after three years. Lower level graduates can
also attend these schools for two years, and most return to farming. There
is no shortage of well-qualified agriculturalists in Chile, and the educa-
tional and training institutions continue to turn out graduates, many of whom
then fail to find employment. Intensive farm management training (one month)
is provided by the Instituto de Capacitacion e Investigacion en Reforma
Agraria (ICIRA) with the help of UNDP funding. In addition, refresher
courses on research progress and results will be provided within the re-
organized Ministry to expedite dissemination of technical developments from
INIA, universities, and overseas.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
Agricultural Organizations
28.       Farmer organizations and cooperatives have been encouraged by suc-
cessive administrations and are generally successful in Chile. There are
three types: (a) Campesinos--primary level groups of small farmers, spon-
sored by INDAP; (b) second level--marketing and credit cooperatives; and
(c) Agro-industrial Cooperatives--operating processing and/or packing plants
in the dairy, wine, fruit and horticulture sub-sectors. Beneficiaries of
agrarian reform are being encouraged to join primary level cooperatives
("sociedades de cooperacion agricola").
29.       The cooperative movement has provided added impetus under the
present Government's policy to encourage private sector involvement in rural
development. The Commission for Cooperative Coordination created in 1974 has
become the Government's major arms for promotion and reorganization of farm
cooperatives. The Commission is located within the Agricultural Planning
Office of the Ministry of Agriculture (ODEPA) and is composed of represent-
atives from various Government agencies involved in Chile's cooperative
movement 1/. Soon after its inception, the Commission undertook a nationwide
study of farmer cooperatives. On the basis of this study, cooperatives were
ranked according to their overall effectiveness and efficiency in meeting the
needs of farmer members. Of the country's then 800 farmer cooperatives, fewer
than 100 were rated truly "viable" and capable of further expansion. The
Commission reached several conclusions in regard to the role of agricultural
cooperatives, which were that:
(a) smaller, less viable cooperatives and farmer organiza-
tions sholuld affiliate with stronger cooperatives in
their region;
(b) as asentamientos are subdivided for individual assign-
ment, the former asentados should retain a form of or-
ganization similar to that under the SARA (Sociedad Agri-
cola de la Reforma Agraria) system. This organization,
which would be called a Society for Agricultural Coopera-
tion, could then join a regional cooperative;
(c) efforts should be made to strengthen and expand the ser-
vices offered by regional cooperatives; and
1/   Member agencies include the Agricultural Planning Office of the
Ministry of Agriculture (ODEPA), Agricultural Extension Livestock
Service, Ministry of Agriculture (SAG), Small Farmer Development
Institute (INDAP), Agrarian Reform Corporation (CORA), and State
Bank (BECH).



ANNEX I
Page 10
(d) whenever possible, Government agencies such as
IFICOOP for credit and COPAGRO for marketing should
channel financial, marketing, and technical assis-
tance through the regional cooperatives to local
cooperatives and farmer associations.
30.       While the Commission for Cooperative Coordination has no formal
authority to enforce these changes, its member agencies exert strong in-
fluence on the country's cooperatives and considerable progress has been
made. For example, 120 former SARAs (now called Agricultural Society of
Agrarian Reform) have joined "Melipilla" cooperatives in the Province of
Santiago. Nearly all of the 100 regional cooperatives count at least some
Agricultural Society of Agrarian Reform groups among their memberships. A
major obstacle to the development of agricultural cooperatives is the lack
of managerial capabilities among the farmer population. The Commission for
Cooperative Coordination is currently offering a series of cooperative
management courses with assistance from the Organization of American States.
Cooperativa de Productores Agricolas (COPAGRO)
31.       COPAGRO, a second level marketing cooperative, is likely to play
an increasingly important role in provision of services to regional coopera-
tives. In addition to expanding its marketing programs, COPAGRO plans to be-
come a major supplier of agricultural credit to member cooperatives and indi-
vidual farmers. To this end, COPAGRO is trying to obtain long-term financing
for purchase of the O'Higgins Bank, currently owned by the Government. An
initial payment of US$1.3 million equivalent has already been made and an ad-
ditional US$11.3 million are needed. The Government has offered to guarantee
external financing for purchase of the bank by COPAGRO. Another recent COPAGRO
investment of potential importance to farmers is the purchase of the Agrarian
Reform Marketing Society (Sociedad Comercialidora de la Reforma Agraria--
SOCORA). This agency, which served as the official channel for agricultural
exports under the previous Government will be managed by COPAGRO for a period
of three or four years and then sold to a group of export-oriented member co-
operatives of COPAGRO.
Supply of Inputs
32.       The supply of agricultural machinery and equipment, as well as pest
and weed control chemicals, is handled to an increasing extent by private
firms, most of whom act as local representatives of overseas manufacturers.
Till recently Banco del Estado (BECH) purchased most of the fertilizer and
some machinery and distributes such items through its national warehouse
system. The National Seed Enterprise (Empresa Nacional de Semillas), a public
autonomous agency, purchases substantial quantities of seeds from approved
multiplication centers and distributes them through its own facilities.
Cooperatives act as purchasing agents for many farmers and receive discounts
from suppliers based on trading volumes. They handle a broad range of inputs,
including livestock and veterinary supplies. In summary, purchasing and
distribution arrangements work reasonably well and farmers generally have
timely access to the necessary inputs.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
B. Commodities Specific to the Project
1. Livestock Production
Breeds (Cattle and Sheep)
33.       Almost all the cattle in Chile are Friesians--a dual-purpose breed
suitable for milk and beef production. Average quality is good because breed-
ing stock has been imported over a long period, mainly from Holland and the
Federal Republic of Germany. The Hereford is the main beef breed and total
'beef animals are estimated at 100,000 to 150,000. The national sheep flock
of 5 million consists of three main breeds--Merino, Corriedale and Romney
Marsh. The Merino is a special wool breed but both the Corriedale and Romney
Marsh are good dual-purpose animals, producing both meat and wool.
Animal Health
34.       Although all the common diseases found in Temperate and Mediterranean
type climates are present, they are controllable by modern techniques and do not
constitute a major constraint on production. The most important are foot-and-
mouth (FMD) and brucellosis but the Government's veterinary service operates a
rigorous and effective control program for each. The last outbreak of FMD in
the entire country was in August 1974, but the last outbreak in the Temperate
zone, which is the major cattle producing region, was three years earlier, in
1971. In fact, the Province of Magallanes has been free of FMD since 1970.
All cattle and sheep in the main livestock producing areas north of Puerto
Montt are vaccinated twice yearly with FMD strains 0, C, and A. Most of the
vaccine used is imported from Paraguay and Uruguay. The control strategy for
brucellosis is based on vaccination until the incidence is reduced to less
than 5%, at which point it is economical to slaughter the remaining infected
animals. The incidence in the Temperate zone provinces is now about 15%, so
animals are vaccinated, whereas in Aisan the incidence is only 2% and animals
are slaughtered. It is estimated that about 60% of replacement heifers have
been be vaccinated in 1975. The veterinary service assigns about 390 members
of its staff to control and eradicate FMD and brucellosis, including 137
veterinarians and 150 veterinary technicians, but by about 1977/78 the plan is
to pass the responsibility for controlling these two diseases to the private
veterinary sector, with general supervision and guidance provided by the
Government's veterinary service.
35.       Other diseases which occur commonly are vibriosis, trichomoniasis,
mastitis, tuberculosis, leptospirosis, and gastro-intestinal parasites. How-
ever, all the veterinary medicines and drugs needed for effective control are
readily available through the private veterinary sector, consisting of about
500 to 600 veterinarians operating as private practitioners or as employees
of farmer cooperatives.



ANNEX I
Page 12
Production Zones
36.       Pasture land and forage land constitute a major national resource,
comprising about 14 million ha. The Temperate zone (para 6) is ideally
suited to grassland farming and the potential for increasing livestock pro-
duction (milk, meat and wool) is excellent. About 60% of Chile's cattle
population and about 80% of total milk production is situated in this zone.
Its potential for livestock production under modern grassland farming methods
is exce'llent. For example, with regular annual fertilizer applications and
good management, carrying capacities could be increased about three-fold, from
about 0.8 cows/ha to about 2.5 cows/ha, and milk production could be increased
about eight-fold, from about 1,000 liters/ha to about 8,000 liters/ha. The
main requirements for increasing production are (a) annual application of
phosphatic fertilizer on old and new pasture; (b) increased stocking rates
to utilize pastures; (c) provision of facilities such as fencing and milking
sheds to enable animals to be managed properly; and (d) better winter feeding
by conserving more hay and silage. Under the proposed Project, it is expected
that most of the investments for increasing milk production would take place
in this region and that they would be made to finance the application of the
technology recommended (Model 1). However, within the Temperate zone lies a
small coastal belt, where current levels of output are extremely low but there
is an excellent potential for increasing beef and sheep production by adopting
modern farming methods. For example, carrying capacities in this area can also
be increased about three-fold, from 0.4 AU/ha to 1.5 AU/ha, and production of
beef/ha can be increased about five-fold. This would be the main area for
investments in beef and sheep production under the Project (Model II) and
investments would be made to finance the application of a technology similar
to that recommended for dairying but with appropriate changes. Some invest-
ments are also expected to be made in the Andean foothills with many good
pastures which are suitable for beef production (Model II).
37.       The Mediterranean zone is also well suited for livestock production.
Subterranean clover grows well in this zone which is the key to pasture im-
provement. With it, phalaris, and ryegrass, carrying capacity could be in-
creased about five-fold, from about one to five ewes per ha. However, at cur-
rent prices for lamb, wool and beef, it is not economical to develop more
than 10 to 20% of improved pasture for strategic feeding. Under the proposed
Project, limited beef/sheep farming would be financed in this area (Model II),
but, during the course of the Project, financing institutions would need to
pay close attention to input/output relationships to ensure that investments
were viable.
38.       Natural tussock-type pastures (fescue spps.) cover vast areas of
Chile's southernmost Province of Magallanes in the Humid zone. Average rain-
fall is about 400 mm, and winters are cold, with harsh winds, limiting the
growing period to about six months. Although carrying capacities are low,
Magallanes has good potential for sheep and beef production because it is
remarkably free from disease, and "saved" natural pasture has a relatively



ANNEX 1
Page 13
high feeding value because rainfall is low. The livestock population of
2.6 million sheep and 120,000 cattle are located on large estates. The sheep
flock, almost entirely Corriedale, has declined from 3 million to about 2.6
million, but the beef herd, assisted by recent imports of polled Herefords
from Australia and North America, increased from 50,000 in 1970 to 120,000
head in 1975.
39.       Sheep and cattle rely almost entirely on natural pasture but there
is usually a small area of improved pasture for strategic feeding. Grazing
areas are divided into "summer" (usually highlands) and "winter" (usually
lowlands) pastures, and supplementary feeding is rarely practiced. Flock
management standards are high and patterned after Scotish highland practices.
40.       Carrying capacity on natural pasture is about one ewe per ha, but,
with pasture improvement, this could be increased to about three ewes per ha.
With present price relationships, however, it again would not be economical to
improve more than 10 to 20% for strategic feeding. Improvement usually in-
volves bush control (spraying with herbicides or slashing) and planting cocks-
food and white clover after cultivation. It is common practice to leave 2-m
wide bush strips every 12 meters to act as windbreaks for pastures and lambs.
Some limited investments in beef/sheep are expected in this area under the
Project (Model II).
41.       Irrigated cropping farms (mainly the Mediterranean zone around
Santiago) practice a four-year rotation, based mainly on wheat and pasture or
forage. Forage (red clover, alfalfa, ladino clover and birdsfoot trefoil) is
grown on about 25% of the farm to maintain soil fertility and crop yields.
INIA estimates that about 160,000 ha of rotated pasture or forage are avail-
able within 150 km of Santiago and that a further 80,000 ha of marginal crop-
ping land would be better utilized under irrigated pasture or forage. This
forage land has a high potential for dry matter (16,000 to 20,000 kg/year) and
milk production. The average carrying capacity is about 0.8 cows/ha and milk
production runs about 1,800 liters/ha. Using the system of dairying researched
and advocated by INIA, rates of 2.2 cows plus replacements/ha and 6,500 liters
of milk/ha are attainable. The INIA (La Platina system) is based on 40% of the
area under grazing (alfalfa, red or ladino clover), 40% under alfalfa hay, and
20% under corn silage. The alfalfa or other legumes require fertilizer only
in the initial sowing year (about 300 kg triple superphosphate/ha). Dairy
farming (fluid milk for Santiago) is presently important under these condi-
tions, but there is substantial room for improvement and expansion. Some in-
vestments in dairying are expected to take place in this region under the pro-
posed Project (Model I).
Development Strategy for Dairying
42.       At present, Chile does not have an overall strategy for developing
its dairy industry, leaving a number of important matters that must be ad-
dressed.  The important question that must be answered is how much does Chile



ANNEX 1
Page 14
intend to depend on imported milk products to meet deficits. The answer to
this will have a major influence on the rate at which supplies of domestic
milk are developed since imports from 1967 to 1972 accounted for 35% to 42% of
total dairy product consumption a year. World prices for such products were
low over this period and their export was actually subsidized by many countries.
Consequently, Chile was importing at "dumped" prices to the detriment of its
own dairy farmers. Imports have dropped drastically since 1972 because of
economic considerations, but how much the Government intends to rely on domes-
tic production to meet domestic requirements in the medium and long term is
not clear. There is no good reason for Chile not to rely completely on domes-
tic production, considering the substantial savings in foreign exchange that
could be made (import of dairy products amounted to about US$32 million in
1972 and US$13 million in 1973). Also, the adoption of a self-sufficiency
policy for dairying would boost overall investment in dairying farmers
would be willing to make.
43.       One requirement for a strong dairy industry is a strategy to en-
courage production of milk which will be consumed as fluid milk in the cities
(fluid milk industry) and one for milk which will be manufactured into milk
powder and other dairy products (manufacturing milk industry). At present,
no recognition is given to the fact that production for different purposes in-
volves different objectives. The main objective in supplying a fluid milk
market is to ensure a more or less even supply throughout the year. Further-
more, the fact that it is usually more expensive to produce milk in winter
(mainly because of higher feeding costs) has to be taken into account in set-
ting summer and winter milk prices to the producers. The best approach is to
adopt a system based on contracts between producers and the processing plants,
with a premium paid on a portion of the milk produced in summer, determined
on the basis of the quantity supplied in winter. Amounts in excess of the
quota based on the winter supply realize a lower price and will normally be
channeled to processing other than fluid milk. The main objective of milk
industry manufacturers is to procure raw material at the lowest possible
cost and this normally entails seasonal production--all cows calve in spring
and are dried off in winter. Under this system, almost all milk is produced
from grazed pasture, which is the cheapest, and cows do not lactate in winter,
requiring only maintenance feeding when feed costs are substantially higher.
In Chile, the cost of milk production based on a year round production system
is about 30% higher than on a seasonal production system based on spring calv-
ing. Seasonal production systems, however, present the processor with an un-
even supply. Typically, the ratio between the quantity supplied per day in
the peak month and the valley month is about 10 or 15 to 1. Countries such
as New Zealand and Ireland, with well developed dairy manufacturing indus-
tries, have found it advantageous to accept this situation because raw mate-
rial is provided at the cheapest possible cost. In Chile, however, processors
are anxious to procure a more even supply and they plan to do it by altering
the price paid on a seasonal basis. This is a dangerous path that could lead
to a high-cost industry or reduce the profit to producers from milk and,
consequently, slow the rate of growth of the industry.



AUNEX I
Page 15
44.       The processor's case for obtaining as uniform a supply as possible
over the year is based on the desire to utilize investments in processing as
efficiently as possible. A processing plant operating at about 80% capacity
throughout the year would handle about twice the quantity of milk that could
be handled with a typical seasonal pattern of production with a 15:1 ratio be-
tween peak and valley months. An even supply would, therefore, result in
lower unit processing costs. This is, however, a restricted view and a dif-
ferent picture emerges if the efficiency of utilizing total capital invest-
ment in processing and production is considered. In Chile, the average in-
vestment in processing and production is about 15% and 85%, respectively, of
the total investment in dairying (seasonal milk production system). There-
fore, from the standpoint of utilizing capital efficiently, the investment in
production is by far the most important.
Investment Potential
45.       From the above review of livestock and pasture resources, it is
evident that Chile has a vast potential for expanding livestock production.
Furthermore, the technology needed for development is well known in the main
production areas although more information is required on input/output rela-
tionships. Since development will depend on the wide-scale adoption of this
technology, adequate financing must be made available, together with adequate
supporting services. Furthermore, the rate of development will depend on
market demand for products and on the profits producers can expect to make as
a result of their investments.
46.       To increase Chile's milk production by 1% a year from the 1974 base
of 906 million liters, an additional 4,500 cows yielding about 2,000 liters a
year are required. This represents an investment of about US$2.4 million a
year with a US$526 investment per cow (using Model I yields and costs). Simi-
larly, to increase meat production by 1% a year from the 1974 base of 175,000
tons, an additional 7,300 animals would be required each year, or about 10,000
breeding cows, for a total investment as about US$2 million (Model II). It is
extremely difficult to estimate the rate as which Chile's milk and meat pro-
duction will grow, but if it is to keep pace with population growth (1.7% per
year), the yearly investment in milk and meat should be about US$7.5 million.
2. Orchards
General
47.       Chile's table grape and orchard industry is located primarily in
the central valley, lying between the Andes to the east and the Pacific Ocean
coastal ranges to the west, extending south from Santiago for about 450 km,
embracing 13 provinces. Four provinces in the central region of the country,
Aconcagua, Valparaiso, Santiago and O'Higgins, account for over 70% of the
fruit and grape area (Tables I through 4). Overall, fruit and table grapes
account for about 7% of the value of agricultural production and 25% of



ANNEX 1
Page 16
agricultural exports, while occupying, on mainly irrigated land, about 4%
of the land devoted to crops.
Production Zones
48.       The Aconcagua valley, about 90 km north of Santiago, is an impor-
tant fruit zone extending from the Pacific Ocean about 130 km east to the
fruit processing town of San Felipe. The warmer, western part of the valley
includes subtropical species such as chirimoya, avocado, loquats and citrus,
while to the east, table grapes, apricots, peaches and walnuts predominate.
The Province of Santiago has the largest fruit area of any province in Chile,
about 32% of the total land area. Approximately 40% of Chile's oranges, 30%
of its table grapes, 50% of the plums and prunes, and 30% of the cherries and
apricots are located here. O'Higgins Province contains about 18% of Chile's
fruit and table grapes, with cropping patterns similar to Santiago's but with
very few almonds. The Provinces of Curico and Colchagua together contain
about 10% of Chile's fruit and table grape area. Cherries, plums, apples and
pears predominate, with few of the warmer season species being grown. Further
south, including the Provinces of Talca, Linares, Nuble, Concepcion, Arauco,
Bio-Bio and Malleco, fruit production is limited mainly to apples and cher-
ries.
49.       The latest estimates, from on-farm surveys by CORFO, indicate that
fresh fruit and nut production is 539,000 tons, valued at US$90 million, from
a total orchard area of 59,158 ha, made up of 49,221 ha of producing orchard
and 10,935 ha of new plantings. Peaches and nectarines (26%), apples (24%),
lemons (12%), table grapes (11%), oranges (9%), and pears (6%) are the most
important crops. Some 64% (344,000 tons) of the total production in 1974/75
was consumed within Chile and 36% (195,000 tons) was exported according to
CORFO data (Table 6).
Irrigation
50.       Generally, irrigation water in Chile is diverted from rivers into
canals that deliver water to the farmers. Water quality is uniformly good
and the supply is abundant due to the proximity of the Andean Cordillera,
which forms a huge natural dam. Rights to water diverted from the rivers
were granted to individuals, who, prior to 1953, could sell, lend or lease
the rights to others. Since 1953, the rights have been attached to the land.
When land is sold, the water rights go with it. The history of irrigation in
Chile to some extent lessens its present effectiveness. Irrigation canals
are excessively long, are unlined, and run in parallel, thus tending to waste
water and inhibit the movement of men and machines. Many of the canals were
not designed for irrigation but were made by miners who sometimes enlarged
channels made by Indians hundreds of years ago. In many cases, farm land
has not been leveled properly for irrigation nor adequate on-farm facili-
ties provided for controlling the water. Consequently, excessive amounts
of water accumulate in low areas damaging crops while higher areas may re-
ceive inadequate amounts of water.



ANNEX 1
Page 17
51.       Water charges are generally low, thereby providing little incentive
for farmers to reduce water wastage. Growers may irrigate during the day and
allow the water to run on to the sea during the night. Too frequent irriga-
tion is also common. Experimental irrigation trials conducted by a University
of Chile-University of California team in a walnut grove resulted in a reduc-
tion in the number of irrigations per season from 16 to three. This situa-
tion is not necessarily typical but is indicative of the wasteful irrigation
methods practiced in some orchards.
52.       Irrigation experiments conducted by CORFO indicate that peach trees
near Santiago require about 80 cm of irrigation water (8,000 cubic meters of
water per ha) per year in addition to rainfall (about the same as California),
and that 20 to 22 days should elapse between irrigations.
Varieties
53.       Most of the varieties needed for the Project have been known in
Chile for a considerable time. New varieties, including dwarf rootstocks for
apples, are also grown and are being multiplied on experimental farms and at
Government nurseries. Considering the combined resources of Government
nurseries, university and Government experimental farms and private nurse-
ries, there is no lack of suitable planting material for any of the fruit
or nut varieties, the principal ones of which are listed in Table 7.
54.       Apples.  Green Granny Smith and the red varieties--Starkirmson,
Starking, Richared and Jonathan--are the best for export and at the same time
well adapted to the local market. Project beneficiaries would be expected to
move from lower density planting systems (200 to 300 trees/ha) to higher den-
sity systems as the supply of improved rootstocks increases. The commercial-
ization of dwarf rootstocks would also be enlarged.
55.       Peaches.  Peaches are widely grown in Chile and some difficulties
have been experienced recently with oversupply and lack of export demand.
Nectarines are being substituted more and more as overseas demand is strong
and nectarines with their firmer flesh can travel better than peaches. All
the Le Grand varieties of nectarines are suitable, as well as Regina and
Silverlode.
56.       Table Grapes.  Fresh grape production would be an important compo-
nent of the Project. Plantations are expected to expand the high trellis sys-
tem (Paronall), which is well known in Chile. Existing varieties are well
adapted to the different producing areas of Chile and their staggered maturi-
ties allow for an extended export period from mid-January (Perlette variety)
through May (Almeria variety). Middle season varieties, such as Thompson
seedless, Ribier and Emperor are all successful, especially in export markets.
Thompson seedless is also used for current production and there is a firm ex-
port demand. This variety can produce very high yields, up to 30 tons/ha,
but thinning is recommended to produce larger sized grapes.



ANNEX 1
Page 18
57.       Almonds.  There is keen demand, particularly from new orchardists,
for almond seedlings because of the good export demand and price. Although a
minor crop at this stage, it is expected that the planted area would increase
sharply during the Project period. Suitable varieties, such as Non-Pareil,
are available from INIA and the nurseries.
Investment Potential
58.       Cultivation practices on Chilean orchards are generally sound and
the technical competence of orchardists is high. Some orcharding techniques
are out-of-date, and practices requiring investment capital, such as fertil-
ization and pest control have been drastically reduced during the period of
low prices. New plantings, and changes to new varieties, either by seedlings
or grafts onto existing rootstocks, have also been curtailed during recent
years, but new varieties and new rootstocks are available in the country and
would be utilized under the Project. Improved pruning techniques would be
introduced, particularly for citrus, avocados and deciduous fruits. Addi-
tionally, irrigation methodology, especially that dealing with frequency of
watering, is expected to be improved through Project investments as excessive
quantities of water are often applied to tree crops.
59.       Orchard enterprises in Chile appear attractive at the present time
since the country has several important advantages over other fruit and grape
producing regions:
(a) strong export demand for certain Chilean produce,
particularly table grapes, nectarines, apples and
almonds;
(b) a recovering domestic market with improving prices;
(c) an almost ideal orchard and vineyard climate;
(d) relatively fertile land that is generally level and
watered, requiring no major infrastructure expense;
(e) almost free irrigation water, available practically
for the cost of applying it;
(f) a good supply of relatively cheap labor; and
(g) availability of most of the fertilizer required for
fruit crops from local manufacturers at competitive
prices.



ANNEX 1
Page 19
3. Vineyards
General
60.       Vineyards in production occupy about 110,000 ha, both irrigated and
rainfed, in,the central districts of Chile between latitudes 27.50 and 380 S.
Chilean vineyards are distributed among some 32,000 growers, cultivating on
the average about 3.5 ha. However, a few wine companies still retain large
vineyards which were not expropriated during the land reform. In contrast,
many very small producing units (less than I ha) exist, mainly in the southern
provinces. Total juice production is about 480 million liters, of which
only about 1% is exported as juice, wine, champagne and pisco (Annex 3).
Annual juice production fluctuated from 430 to 580 million liters during the
past decade when the annual average production was 466 million liters. A
severe drought and frost limited production during 1968/69. The average
annual rate of increase from 1949 through 1963 has been 4%. The growth trend
subsequently was 87 liters/ha per annum (1.9%). Yields from irrigated vine-
yards far exceed those from rainfed plantations. Based on 460 million liters
in mid-1974, and a 1.9% growth rate, Chile would produce about 750 million
liters of juice by the year 2000, at an average of 6,821 liters/ha, a yield
that is still far below Argentina (7,550 liters/ha) or the USA (13,260 liters/
ha). Chile's best yields are 12,000 liters/ha of red wine and 20,000 liters/ha
of white from the central valley, near Santiago. USA technology is coming in
more and more and will have a significant impact on future trends.
61.       For many years, the Government contained the planting of new vine-
yards, but restrictions were eased toward the end of the 1960s although with
little positive result. In January 1974, the Government abolished all re-
strictions on the planting of new vineyards and it is expected that this
legislation will be a positive factor favoring the expansion of wine pro-
duction under the Project.
62.       ODEPA estimates and projections of vineyard areas are as follows:
ha
1965      109,000
1975      120,000
1980      130,000
2000      145,000
The country has averaged 110,000 ha over the last 15 years.  Chile underwent
rapid vineyard expansion from 1930 to 1938, moving from 85,000 to 104,000 ha.
Then, expansion ceased as a tax was imposed on new plantings, and the area
actually decreased to 93,800 ha from 1939 to 1947, stabilizing at 110,000 ha
by 1965.



ANNEX I
Page 20
63.       Chile was the first wine producing country in Latin America, dating
back to the mid-16th century, 200 years before California. The country has
important advantages in wine production with its Phylloxera-free vineyards,
dry climate, warm summers and almost total lack of killing frosts. Chilean
wine is considered to be of superior quality, with uniform vintages. The har-
vest in the northern and central regions can begin by the end of February, or
as late as mid-April. It is complete by mid-May or, at the latest, by the
first day of June. Grapes with 11.50 to 12.50 alcohol are preferred, with
optimum acidity.
Production Zones
64.       Six principal production zones are recognized (Table 8).  The two
most important are the irrigated central valley, with 37,000 ha producing
248 million liters of juice, and the unirrigated south central valley, with
almost 46,000 ha producing 130 million liters. Average yields from the first
zone are 6,681 liters/ha under irrigation, much higher than the second zone,
with 2,838 liters/ha under rainfed conditions.
65.       The next most important zones are the unirrigated central valley,
with 9,000 ha and 36 million liters of production; the irrigated southern
valley, with 8,000 ha and 7 million liters; and the irrigated south central
valley, with nearly 7,000 ha and 43 million liters. The smaller irrigated
northern zone accounts for more than 2,000 ha and 16 million liters of juice.
66.       There are two different types of vineyards in Chile.  In the
Aconcagua and central valleys, vines are established on wine cordon (low) or
parronal (high overhead) trellis and grown mainly under irrigated conditions.
Grapes from the cordon trellis system are used for wine production and those
from the parronal system for table grape production. Generally, the ecologi-
cal conditions in this northern zone are excellent for vineyards. Farm prac-
tices are of a good standard and average yields are relatively high. Excel-
lent varieties have been planted and the wine alcohol content easily reaches
13% to 14%. Thanks to the warm, dry summer and low rainfall, fungal dis-
eases are rare. However, acarian attacks are frequent and oidium is common,
requiring control measures.
67.       Further south, in the Provinces of Linares, Nuble, Concepcion and
Bio-Bio, vines are grown mainly under rainfed conditions, usually on small
farms, without trellis. This is the region where Chilean vineyards began and
it is still a large wine producing region, with about 60% of the country's
vineyards. However, the climatic and soil conditions are not as favorable
for fine wine production as in the central valley. Yields are lower, and
lower quality wines are produced in this region for the domestic market.



ANNEX 1
Page 21
68.       As is the case for fruit and nut production, irrigation water is
almost freely available by gravity from the streams draining the Andean
water and snowsheds into the Pacific Ocean. More red wine grape varieties
are grown under rainfed conditions than irrigated (53,000 ha versus
28,000), but production is less (147 million liters versus 156 million)
because of the higher yields obtained under irrigation. The irrigated
vineyard area of almost 47,000 ha represents about 3.9% of Chile's total
irrigated land (1.2 million ha). The trend is similar for white wine
varieties, with over 61,000 ha unirrigated and 47,000 ha irrigated (Table
9), producing 173 million and 327 million liters, respectively. For
Chilean wine production generally, irrigated yields average 6,300 liters/
ha versus only 2,600 liters/ha for non-irrigated production. The almost
62,000 ha of rainfed vineyard represents about 1.4% of Chile's rainfed
arable land (4.3 million ha).
Varieties
69.       Existing varieties such as Cabernet, Semillon, Sauvignon, Riesling,
Verdot, and Cot are well adapted to local ecoclimatic conditions. The best
varieties for each zone are well known and Chilean nurseries are quite able
to produce the required vine stocks. The areas planted to red and white var-
ieties, under irrigated and rainfed conditions, are shown together with re-
spective production (Table 9). Some 60% of production comes from red varie-
ties and 40% from white. Chile makes better quality red than white wine al-
though this situation could change as wineries are modernized. Generally,
more sophisticated equipment is needed for the manufacture of high quality
white wines.
70.       The oldest variety is Pais, dating back to the first Spanish colon-
izers. It is adaptable to dry land and poor soil, giving reasonable produc-
tion under the most severe conditions. It is disease-resistant, very respon-
sive to improved conditions and gives an excellent performance under irriga-
tion. This variety produces a light bodied wine with fast maturation quali-
ties and wine quality is superior from unirrigated land. Two-thirds of Chile's
unelaborated wine and grape cider come from the Pais variety.
71.       Cabernet.  The variety is of French origin and is grown in Chile
mostly under irrigated conditions. It has high productivity and produces ex-
traordinarily high quality wines.
72.       Cot, Merlot and Verdot.  These red varieties mature earlier than
Cabernet. They are blended into fine bottled red wines and common reds.
Their combined production is less than half the total for Cabernet.
73.       Carignan.  This variety is the successor to Pais on irrigated land.
It produces better color than Pais but is less disease-resistant.
74.       Semillon and Sauvignon.  These two varieties yield 87% of Chilean
white wine production. Under irrigated conditions, they yield the highest of
all varieties. They are of French origin and process into fine quality wines.



ANNEX I
Page 22
Investment Potential
75.       Chilean wines are world renowned and there is an excellent oppor-
tunity to capitalize on this base with investments under the Project. As the
export market strengthens, particularly in Latin America, and domestic market
prices continue to recover from their depressed levels of recent years, in-
vestments would be made to rehabilitate and improve existing vineyards, as
well as to plant new ones. An adequate supply of vine stocks is available
from Chilean nurseries, and the relevant technology is known in the country.
Some changes in cultivation practice are taking place at the present time,
such as the switch from low cordon trellis to the higher California system on
some larger vineyards. Initial investment costs are higher, and yields may
be slightly lower, but grape quality for fine wine production is enhanced,
which is beneficial for exports. Vineyard investment in Chile is attrac-
tive at the present time. The cultivation advantages enjoyed by the fruit
industry apply equally to the cultivation of grapes for wine production.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Production Trends of the Principal Annual Crops,
Fresh Fruit and Nuts, Wine and Livestock: 1970-76
-____________________- '000 tons ---------------------------- l/
Commodity                             1969-70   1970-71   1971-72   1972-73   1973-74   1974-75-  1975-7&6-
Annual Crops
Wheat                                 1,306.9   1,368.0   1,195.1       746.7      757.1   1,096.7   1,203.6
Barley                                   97.4     113.6      139.0      107.4      161.7      135.8      160.3
Rye                                      10.7       12.3      12.4        8.5       18.9        9.4       14.6
Oats                                    110.6     112.0      111.3      109.1      157.3      127.9      139.6
Rice                                     76.2      67.1       86.3       55.0       26.4       73.3       89.4
Maize                                   239.1     258.3      283.0      294.0      366.5      256.5      295.5
Beans                                    65.6       72.2      82.9       65.0       73.2       k7.3       91.7
Peas                                      7.4       8.5       10.7        8.8       13.5       14.7       14.6
Chick pea                                 5.4        7.2       9.3        4.1        6.6        8.0        9.4
Lentils                                  11.2       12.0      10.7        9.8       13.5       10.1       11.8
Potatoes                                683.8     835.8      733.1      623.6      928.9      744.8      806.4
Sunflower                                28.2      20.3       19.9       13.5        9.7       13.2       18.0
Rapeseed                                 69.9       82.1      78.0       40.0       34.2       55.2       72.5
Sugarbeet                            1,655.1   1,390.7   1,201.6        855.9      953.7   1,320.0   1,806.0
Total                      4,367.5   4,360.1   3,973.3   2,941.4   3,521.2   3,952.9   4,733.4
% Change                                 -          -0.2      -8.9      -26.0      +19.7      +19.0     +19.7
Fresh Fruit and Nuts2/                1,037.2   1,300.0   1,426.4   1,332.0        539.4      566.4      594.7
Livestock
Beef                                    170.9     166.4      149.9      137.0      147.0      146.3      148.3
Mutton and lamb                          29.5       26.6      25.2       17.6       24.8       27.2       30.3
Pigmeat                                 48.5       49.7       55.1       50.6       53.3       42.0      43.7
Poultry meat                             52.5      58.3       61.3       32.2       36.3       43.6      47.6
Milk (million liters)                   895.1     940.0      935.0      878.0      905.8      956.1   1,021.9
Eggs ('000 units)                    1,168.5   1,052.6   1,169.8        891.0   1,154.0   1,219.0   1,262.0
Wool                                     19.8       18.1      16.2       17.7       16.8       17.3       18.0
Total                      2,384.8   2,311.7   2,412.5   2,024.1   2,338.0   2,451.5   2,571.8
% Change                                 -          -3.1      -4.4      -16.1      +15.5       +4.8       +4.9
---------------------------'000 liters -----------------------------
3/
Wine-                                 400,530   525,134   465,000   460,000  480,673   504,649   529,881
1/  ODEPA estimates, November 1976.
2/ Oranges, lemons, apples, pears, stone Jruits and table grapes. Data should be consistent as best estimates
as precise data are difficult to determine.
3/  Wine data are considered best estimates as it is difficult to determine precise figures.
Source: Chile, Agricultural Sector Brief. IBRD, August 1975.



CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRtITS. VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Po.e Froit Production in Chile
APPLE                                                                  PEARS                                                                    QUINCE
New       Producing   Total                        Average             New       Producing   Total                        Average             New        Producing  Total                        Avarage
Province                       Orchard  Orchard       Orchard Area  Production  Produiction           Orchard  Orchard       Orchard Area  Production  Production             Orchard  Orchard    Orchard Area  Production  Production
- - - -  - - - -(ha)   - - - - -        (tons)      (taon/ha)          - - - - - -      (ha) - - - -            (tons)     (tons/ha)          - - - - - - - - (ha) - - - - - -    (tons)           (tons/ha)
Aconcaqua                           57        33           90             790         23.9                12       258            270          3,012          11.7                38        76           114           1,672          22.0
Valparaiso                          25       101          126           1,869         18.5                 3        30             33            425          14.2                14         7            21              154         22.0
Santiago                            48       151          199           3,199         21.2               143       624            767         11,086          17.8               65       204            269           4,488          22.0
O'higgins                        1,739    1,235         2,974          25,130         20.3               272       541            813          9,106          16.8                65       133           198           2,926          22.0
Colchagua                          758       786        1,544          12,471         15.9                43       213            256          2,978          14.0               45         65           110           1,430          22.0
Curico                             268    2,625         2,893          43,560         16.6                 2       136            138          1,813          13.3               61        103           164           2,266          22.0
Talca                              242       870        1,112          15,711         18.0                 2       185            187           2,869         15.5                17        28            45              616         22.0
Linares                            447       281          729           4,600         16.4                20        75             95           1,615         21.5                 2         5_            7              110         22.0
Nuble                               32       295          327           2,579          8.7                 1         4              5             119         30.0                 -         5             5              110         22.0
Concepcion                          11       185          196           2,996         16.2                 -         -              -               -                              2         -             2
Arauco                              15        20           35             320         16.0                 -         -               -              -                              -         -              -
Bio Bio                             69       541          610          12,674         23.4                 3        27             30             515         19.1                14         2            16               44         22.0
Malleco                            120       369          489           4.640         12.6                 1        36             37             368         10.2                 2         -              2               -
Total                       3,831    7,492        11,323         130,539          17.4              502    2,129            2,631         33,906         15.9               325       628            953          13,816          22.0
Export ('000 tons)                                                         78.3                                                                    20.3
Internal Consump-
tion ('000 tona)                                                      52.2                                                                   13.6                                                                13.8
Grower Price (U8$/kg)                                                       0.11                                                                    0.12                                                                0.05
Prodoction Value (US$'000)                                             14,359.3                                                                4,968.7                                                               690.8
Source   Corporacion do Fooento do la Produccion, October 1975.
November 26, 1975



CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYAUSS ASS AERO-INEEITRY CREDIT PROJECT
Drupe Fruit Production in Chile
------------ P-ah t Nectarine- ------------------   ------------------- Apricot -----------------------    --------------------- Plum - -----------------------    ---------------- ---- Cherry -----------------__- --_
Total                                                          Total                                                          Total                                                          Total
New     Producing  Or-hard                    Avorage         Naw      Prodocing  Otchard                    Avecage         N.o      Po-du-iC,  Orchard                     Averoge         Nen     Producing  Orchard                    Average
Proyince                        Orchard    Orchard   _A           Prod-ction  Production   Orchard   Orchord           Area      Production   Production    Orchard   Orchard          Atea    Prodcti-on   P-odoction    Or-hard   Orchard    Are              Production Production
(he)      (ho)        (he)       (ton-)       (toc-/ho)       (he)       (he)        (ha)     , (tons)       (toca/ha)       (he)       (ha)        (ha)        (ton.)       (toca/ha)       (ho)       (he)       (h.)        (tona)      (toa/ha)
Aconcagu.                          338       4,307       4,645      49,578           11.5          19          281       300         3,788          13.5          6          91          97           841            9.2           -         a           8            21          2.6
Valpa-ieon                          67          407        474       4,352           10.7           3           52        55           359           6.9          -          21           21          250           11.9                     -           -             -          -
S-ntia8g                           159       5,310       5,469      61,399           11.6          80         733        813        6,526            8.9        44        1,016       1,060         8,420            8.3         35        194         229           841          4.3
O'Higgina                          304       3,056       3,360      23,071            7.5          30           81       111           651           8.0          8         339         347         2,409            7.1          71        27          98           338         12.5
Col.heg..                           14          127        141          301           2.4           -            -         -             -           -            8         124         132           905            7.3           2        19          21           114          6.0
CErIco                               -          40          40          309           7.7           -            6         6            48           8.0          7            -           7             -           -           136       306         442         1,774          5.8
Talc                                 -            I           1           4           4.0                       -            -          -             -                                                -             -           -
Lina-e-                              _            4          4           17           4.2           -            -         -             -           _            -            _           -             -           -             _          1          1              3         3.0
Nuble                                2           28         30          450          16.1           -            -         -             -           -            -            2           2            14           7.0          53        58         111           261          4.5
Concepcion                           _            9           9          40           4.4           -            2         2            16           8.0          -            2           2            14           7.0          29         11         40            49          4.4
Areuco-                                           -           -           -           --                                    -
Bio Bol                              1            5          6           38           7.6                                   -            -           -            -            5           5            35           7.0           -          7          7            31          4.4
MelInca                              -            1           1           9           9.0           1            0          2             8          8.0         _            10          10            70           7.0           -          -           -             -          _
Totl1                  885       13,295     14,180      139,568          10.5         133        1,156     1,209        11,396            9.8        73        1,610       1,683        12,918            8.0        326        631         957        5,432           3,4
Euport ('000 tone)                                                  41.87                                                               0                                                           5.18                                                           1.72
Internet conouRption ('000 tons)                                    97.70                                                           11.40                                                           7.77                                                           1.72
Gr-ner price (US$/kg)                                                 0.21                                                           0.07                                                           0.19                                                           0.53
Production vele (US$'000)                                       29,309.3                                                           797.7                                                        2,462.0                                                       1,819.0                    b- 
Source: Corpor-i-on de Fo-ento de On Prod-ic-on, October, 1975.
Dece-ber 4, 1975



CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRo-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Table Grape and Nut Production in Chile
TABLE GRAPE                                                         WALNUJT                                                            AIND
Total                                                          Total                                                              Total
New     Producing   Orchard                    Average         New      Producing   Orchard                    Average            New     Producing   Orchard                     Average
Province                  Orchard    Orchard        Area     Production   Production   Orchard    Orchard          Area      Production   Production         Orchard    Orchard       Area      Production   Production
(ha)      (ha) -         FT       (tons)      (tons/ha)        (ha)       (ha)        (ha)        ( (ton)      tsa)               (ha)       (ha)        (ha)        (tons)      (tons/ha)
Aconcaqua                      90       1,779       1,869       25,486         14.3          347       1,098       1,445        1,526          1.4               10          73          83           11           0.2
Valparaiso                      2         216         218        3,227         14.9             8          37         45           35          0.9               15          62          77            25          0.4
Santiago                       76       1,544       1,620       23,892         15.5          375         849       1,224          860          1.0               73         832         905          278           0.3
O'Higgins                      47         235         282        6,765         28.8          285         717       1,002          478          0.7               26         456         482          151           0.3
Colchaqua                      -            7           7          284         40.6           -           15          15           16          1.1               -            3           3             1          0.3
Curico                         -           14          14          372         26.6             6         49          55           52           1.1              -           11          11             3          0-3
Talca                          -            4           4           35          8.8            5          -            5           -            -                 5          -            5           -             -
Linares                         3          27          30          520         19.,i            1          3           4             2         0.7
Nuble                                                                                           6           3           9            2          0.7
Concepcion                                                                                      1                       1
AraucO
Bio Bio                                                                                         4           4          8             3          0.8                            4           4            1          0-3
Malleco                                                                                                    31         31            30          1.0
TOTAL                        TTW        3,826       4,044       60,581         15.8        1,038       2,806                                      1T29  1.41    T1,570  4                              71
Export ('000 tons)                                               36-35                                                           1.5                                                                0.3
Internal Consumption ('000 tons)                                 24.23                                                           1.5                                                                0.2
Grower Price (US$/kg)                                             0.21                                                            1.1 1/                                                             4.0 o
Value (US$'OOO)                                                12,722.0                                                        3,304.0                                                            1,884.0
1/  In shell.
2/ Shelled.
Source:  Corporacion de Fomento de la Producion, October, 1975.
November 26, 1975



CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Warm Season Fruit Production in Chile
---------------------- Lemon ----------------------   ----------------------- Orange --------------------   ---------------------- Avocado --------------_rA---
New    Producing    Total                   Average         New    Producing   Total                     Average        New    Producing   Total                     Average
Province                         Orchard   Orchard   Orchard  Production  Production   Orchard   Orchard   Orchard  Production  Production   Orchard   Orchard   Orchard  Production  Production
(ha)      (ha)         (ha)      (tuna)     (tons/ha)      (ha)        (ha)      (ha)        (tuna)     (tona/ha)        (ha)      (ha)       (ha)       (tons)       (tons/ha)
Aconcagua                          51         524          575     5,692          10.9           33       200         233       2,281         11.4          85         558        643        2,995          5.4
Valparaiso                        233         713          946      7,592         10.6           33         66         99       1,041         15.8        594        1,096      1,690        6,262          5.7
Santiago                          344       2,572       2,916    28,366           11.0         213        859      1,072       14,027         16.3        111          725        836        2,492          3.4
O'Higgins                         316       1,800       2,116    15,039            8.3         896      1,802      2,698      27,654          15.3        151        1,045      1,196        3,347          3.2
Colchagua                         236         494          730     5,140          10.4         151        185         336       2,905         15.7          10          97        107           189         1.9
Curico                              3            6           9         10          1.7            -          -          -           -          -             9           -           9            -         -
Talca                               -          52           52        371          7.1            -          9          9         209         23.2           -           6          6            20         3.3
Linares                             -            -           -          -            -            -          I          1          16         16.0                       -          -             -         -
Nuble                               1            7           8        122         17.4            _          8          8         144         18.0        - _            _           _            _
Concepcion                           1           2           3         17          8.5                       -          -           -          -
Arauco                                                                                    -            -           -          -             -                -
Bio Bio                             -            1           1         12         12.0                       -          -           -          -                         -           -            -         -
Malleco                              -           2           2         14          7.0            -          3          3          13          4.3
Total                1,185       6,173       7,358    62,375           10.1       1,326      3,133      4,459       48,290         15.4         960       3,527      4,487        15,305         4.3.
Export ('000 tons)                                                 9,4                                                            0                                                             0
Internal consumption
('000 tons)                                                     53.0                                                          48.3                                                          15.3
Grower price (U8$/kg)                                              0.08                                                           0.10                                                          0.40
Production value (US$'000)                                     4,990.0                                                       4,829.0                                                       6,122.0
------------Chirimyoy---------- ------------Papaya -----------
Aconcagua                            2          29          31        217          7.5            -         12         12         432         36.0
Valparaiso                           2        328          330      2,460          7.5            -          5          5         180         36.0
Santiago                                   -           -          -           -           -                  -          -           -          -
O'Higgins                            -
Colchagua                            -
Curico                               -
Talca                                -
Linares                              -           -           -          -          -              -          -          -           -           -
Nuble                                -                      -           -            -                       .4         .4         16         40.0
Concepcion                                       -          -           -            -                       -          -           -           -
Arauco                               -           -           -          -
Bio Bio                              -           -           -          -
Malleco                              -        _              -                             -                 -
Tatal                    4         357          361      2,677         7.5             -        17.4       17.4        628         36.1
Export ('000 tons)                                                 0                                                                0
Internal Consumption
('000 tons)                                                      2.7                                                              0.6
Grower price (US$/kg)                                               0.80                                                            0.70
Production value (US$'000)                                     2,142.0                                                            439.6
Source:  Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion, October, 1975.
November 26, 1975



CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Fruit and Nut Production in Chile
New    Producing    Total                 Average    Production                    Internal   Production
Orchard   Orchard   Orchard  Production  Production  Percentage    Export          Consumption    Value
(ha)      (ha)        (ha)   ('000 tons) (tons/ha)         %        ('000 tons)  ('000 tons)  (US$'000)
Pome Fruits
Apple                                3,831      7,492      11,323      130.5       17.4          24,2         78.3         52.2         14,359.3
Pear                                   502      2,129       2,631       33.9       15.9           6,3        20.3          13.6         4,069.0
Quince                                 325        628          953      13.8       22.0           2.6          0            13.8           690.8
Drupes
Peach/nectarine                        885    13,295       14,180      139.6       10.5          25.9        41.9          97.7        29,309.3
Apricot                                133      1,156        1,289      11.4        9.8           2.1          0            11.4           797.7
Plum                                    73      1,610       1,683       13.0        8.0           2.4          5.2           7.8         2,462.0
Cherry                                 326        631          957       3.4        5.4           0.6          1.7           1.7         1,819.0
Table Grapes                           218      3,826       4,044       60.6       15.8          11,2         36.4          24.2        12,722.0
Nuts
(un-
Walnut                               1,038      2,806        3,844       3.0        1.lshelled)  0.6           1.5           1.5         3,304.0
Almond                                 129      1,441        1,570       0.5        0.3(shelled) 0.1           0.3           0.2         1,884.0
Warm Season Fruits
Lemon                                1,185      6,173        7,358      62.4       10.1          11.6          9.4          53.0         4,990.0
Orange                               1,326      3,133-      4,459       48.3       15.4           9.0          0            48.3         4,829.0
Avocado                                960      3,527       4,487       15.3        4.3           2.8          0            15.3         6,122.0
Chirimoya                                4        357          361       2.7        7.5           0.5          0             2.7         2,142.0
Papaya                                   0         17           17       0.6       36.1           0.1          0             0.6           439.6
Total                    10,935    48,221        59,156     539.0                    100.0        195.0         344.0        89,939.7
Percentage (%):                     18.5        0.15                                                          36.2          63.8                                  Pi
Source: Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion, October, 1975.
November 24, 1975



ANNEX 1
Table 7
CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Fruits and Nut Varieties Recoimmended for Chile
Species
Apples         Granny Smith, Starkspur Golden Delicious, Goldspur Golden Delicious, Royal Red Delicious, Red Vance Delicious,
Wallspur Delicious, Starkirmson, Starking, Richared, Jonathan.
Peaches        Fortuna, Halford, Peak Cling, Dixon I, Reina Elena, Gaume, Pamona, Halford II, Paloro, Jungerman, Stuart, Klaut.
(canning)
Peaches        (a)  Export:           Coronet, Cardinal Regina, Redtrop, Suncrest, J.H. Hale, Fay Elberta, Fayette, Rio Oso,
(fresh)                             Summerset, Fiesta, Halloween.
(b)  Domestic Market: Springtime, Springold, Blaxingold, Robin, Dixired, Gold Dust.
Nectarines     (a)  Expert:           Sunrise, Gold King, Early Le Grand, Le Grande, Late Le Grand, Silverlode, Regina,
Early Sungrand, Autumngrand, Freedom, Early Sunrise, Nectar Grand.
(b)  Domestic Market: Red June, Early Sun Grand, Rose, Sun Grand, Independence, Red King, Royal Grand,
Late Le Grand, Grandeur, September Grand, Sun Free.
Table Grapes   Sultanina (Thompson Seedless), Ribier, Emperor, Almeria, Tokay.
Lemons         Genova, Eureka, Sutil.
Oranges        Washington, Valencia, Tuncana.
pears          Beuree Bose, Packam's Triumph, Red Bartlett, Summer Bartlett, Winter Nelis, Anjou.
Avocados       Fuerte, Mexicola, Ryan, Princesa Eugenia, Hass, Edranol and local varieties.
Quinces        Champin, Rea's Mammouth.
Plums          El Dorado, Nubiana, Laroda, Queen Anne, Kelsey, Casselman, Burmosa, D'Agen, Stanley.
Apricots       Tilton, Imperial, Modesta, Pariot, Royal Bleinheim, Perfection, Derby.
Cherries       Bing, Anonay, Pigeon Heart.
Walnuts        Eureka, Payne's Seedling, Hartley.
Chirimoyos     Concholisa, Bronceada, Tumba, Deny, Canaria.
Almonds        Non Pareil, Texas Prolifio, Ka Pareil, IXL, Drake's Seedling.
Source: CORFO, 1975.
January 5, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 8
CHIE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Winegrape Production in Chile
(1974)
Average
Total Vine-     Total Vine-      Average Vine-     Wine Pro-          Percentage of     Wine Pro-
Number of   yard Area        yard Area        yard Size          duction           Total Wine         duction
PROVINCE                                Vineyards      (ha)             (X)             (ha)             ('000 litres)     Production        (litres/ha)
Zone I: Irrigated North Central Valley
Atacama                                  560          920              0.9             1.6               5,208               1.1
Coquimbo                                 727        1,453              1.3             2.0              11 073               2.3
Subtotal                     1,27          2,373             2.2              1.8             16,281                3.4            6,861
Zone II: Irrigated Central Valley
Aconcagua                                270          542              0.5             2.0               2,252               0.5
Valparaiso                               219          508              0.5             2.3                 725               0.2
Santiago                                 808        8,403              7.7            10.4              54,217              11.3
O'Higgins                              1,284        5,992              5.5             4.7              39,676               8.3
Colchagua                                702        3,654              3.3             5.2              25,157               5.2
Curico                                   434        5,539              5.1            12.8              35,168               7.3
Talea                                    694       12 523             11.4            18.1              91.078               18.9
Subtotal~                    4,411       T4f T              3T4.0             8.4            248,273               51.7            6,681
Zone III: Unirrigated Central Valley
Ac oncagua                               -            _-                               -
Valparaiso                               292          820              0.8             2.8                 613               0.1
Santiago                                 338        1,395              1.3             4.1               5,055               1.1
O'Higgins                                 58          560              0.5             9.6               3,739               0.8
Colchagua                               495         2,179             2.0              4.4               7,203               1.5
Curico                                   240        1,148             1.0              4.8               3,898               0.8
Talea                                               2.950              2.7             4.2              15.735                 2
Subtotal                     2,122         9,052               3              4.3             36,243                7.5            4,004
Zone IV: Irrigated South Central Valley
Linares                                  699        5,846              5.4             8.4              36,362               7.6
Maule                                     83          237              0.2             2.8               2,229               0.5
Nuble                                    215          566              0.5             2.6               4.002               0 8
Subtotal                       997        6,649              6.1             6.7              42,593                8.9            6,406
Zone V: Onirrigated South Central Valley
Linares                                1,481        6,988              6.4             4.7              32,187               6.7
Maule                                  2,777        7,132             6.5              2.6              25,766               5.4
Nuble                                  7,516       17,437             16.0             2.3              43,650               9.1
Concepcion                            6.837        14.207            13.0              2.1             28,299                5.8
Subtotal                    18,611       45,764             41.9              2.5            129,902               27.0            2,838
Zone VI: Irrigated Southern Valley
Bio Bio                                3,448        7,740              7.0             2.2               7,050               1.4
Malleco                                  188          491             0.4              2.6                 314               0.1
Cautin                                    23           51             0.1              2.2                  17               0.0
Subtotal                     3 659         8282              7.5              2.3              7 381                1.5               891
Total                           07 19     100.0                               3                tt                 100.0
Source:   "Tierra del Vinoe  - Journal of the Chilean
Association of Exporters and Bottlers of Wine.
Vol. 2:3, First Quarter 1975, pp.6-13.
March 10, 1976



CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Wine Area and Production in Chile by Variety and Irrigated Versus Rainfed Cultivation
estimate of 1973
Irrigated                                 Unirrigated
Variety                           Area       %      Production         %       Area       %      Production         %
(ha)            ('000 liters)               (ha)             ('000 liters)
Pais                             7,307    27.9        44,011          28.3    47,947   90.8       131,408         89.7
Cabernet                        11,218    42.8        68,494         44.1        339    0.7         5,664          3.9
Cot                              4,604    17.6         3,683          2.4      2,082    3.9         4,299          2.9
Merlot                            1,199     4.6        3,427           2.2     1,019    1.9           310           0.2
Carignan                           463      1.8       22,989          14.8     1,009    1.9         3,067           2.1
Romano                              513     1.9        1,140           0.7        129    0.2          322           0.2
Pinot                               270     1.0        8,000          5.1        161    0.3           948          0.6
Verdot                              331     1.3        2,005           1.3         21    0.1            50          0.1
Varias                              299     1.1        1.721           1.1        129    0.2           394          0.3
Subtotal             26,204   100.0       155,470         100.0    52,836  100.0       146,462        100.0
White
Semillon                        14,532    70.3       134,096         78.1      3,169   36.6        12,487         47.9
Italia                             310      1.5          619          0.4      4,290   49.6         9,977         38.2
Sauvignon                        3,072    14.9        24,231          14.1       407    4.7         1,308           5.0
Torontel                         1,539      7.4        9,911           5.8        341    3.9           949          3.6
Moscatel                            548     2.7           915          0.5         53    0.6           145          0.6
Cristal                             159     0.8           695          0.4        178    2.1           628          2.4
Pinot                                83     0.4          304           0.2         11    0.1            18          0.1
Varias                              422     2.0           997          0.5        209    2.4          571           2.2
Subtotal              20,665   100.0      171,768         100.0      8,658  100.0       26,083         100.0
Total                46,869               327,238          65.5    61,494              172,545          34.5                      H
Source: Tierra del Vino.  Journal of the Chilean Association of Exporters and Bottlers of wine.  Vol. 1: 2,                                  M
September/October, 1974
March 10, 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Land Reform
Background
1.        By the early 1800s, most of Chile's good farm land had been
consolidated into very large estates under the economienda system 1/. For
the most part, these were cattle ranches producing for the domestic market.
Late in the same century, new export markets opened up, especially in Peru,
and many hacendados began to shift from cattle to wheat. This required
more labor, so the landowners sought to establish large resident labor
forces on their properties. This was the beginning of inguilinaje (literally
"renters"), an arrangement which has formed a central part of the Chilean
rural structure for nearly a century.
2.        The inquilinos were attracted to the haciendas through a variety
of arrangements ranging from simple rental contracts to sharecrop tenancy.
Initially, the inquilinos were renters in the conventional sense, paying in
cash or shares for the use of hacienda lands. Thus, they were not wage
laborers but entrepreneurs in their own right. However, as their numbers
increased, and as a combination of opportunities and economic pressures stim-
ulated the hacendados to take over more direct control of their lands, the
inquilinos began to lose their relatively independent status. Gradually,
their bargaining power eroded until they were, in fact, laborers who received
a part of their pay in the form of subsistence plot and the right to pasture
a few animals within the hacienda's boundaries.
3.        By the time Chile gained its independence in the early 19th century,
the landed aristocracy dominated politics in both rural and urban areas. For
more than 100 years, this power remained virtually intact. The integrity of
the landed aristocracy as the major force in Chilean politics remained viable
well into the present century. It was not until after World War I that land
reform became an issue of any real political importance. And even then, the
landed aristocracy was able to deter efforts to change the rural structure by
making minor concessions and "deals" with the growing urban middle class and
reformist or anti-establishment groups and political parties. The principal
outcome of these alliances was that throughout more than half of the 20th
century the rural order remained essentially unchanged. Even so, the
hacendado's ability to resist mounting pressures for change was, with each
concession and each new alliance, gradually eroding. By the early 1960s, the
traditional system of rural property was under serious tension.
1/   The economienda (literally "trust") system placed enormous tracts of land
under the control of conquistadores and other Spanish families.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Expropriation Concepts and Policies
4.        Chile's first major agrarian reform law (Law No. 15,020) was
passed in 1962 and a Government agency, the Agrarian Reform Corporation
(Corporacion de la Reforma Agraria--CORA), was created. The law authorized
CORA to expropriate land only where very low productivity or virtual abandon-
ment could be proven. Even this limited power was not implemented to any
extent until Frei came into office in 1964.
5.        At the time of the 1964 elections, Chile's agriculture was in dif-
ficulty, characterized by concentration of land and income, underutilization
of resources, lagging production, and underemployment. Less than 7% of the
farms accounted for nearly 80% of the land. The legal minimum rural wage,
including the value of payments in kind, was less than US$0.75 equivalent per
day. Nearly 42% of the irrigable land in the central valley was in unimproved
natural pasture. Agricultural output had increased by an average of only 1.8%
per year since 1930, while the population had grown by nearly 2.5% per year
during the same period.
6.        The agrarian reform program initiated in 1964 began as an essentially
"populist" or compromise strategy which combined reformist and more classical
modernization policies. Large unproductive farms and farms experiencing in-
tense labor conflicts were expropriated while better managed and socially
stable units were encouraged to modernize along conventional lines. This dual
policy is reflected in the 1962 land reform law, and even more so in the actual
expropriation policies, which exempted many owners outright and allowed others
to subdivide their farms privately, to keep a large reserve, and to receive
greater compensation if their farms were especially productive. It was also
reflected in highly subsidized credit and machinery importation policies for
the modernizing commercial sector. One study reported an incrase of 164% in
machinery and equipment on a sample of private farms between 1964 and 1969.
7.        The initial expropriations during the 1964-1970 period were carried
out within the context of the 1962 land reform law. At the same time, however,
Congress was pressured to pass a new land reform law giving greater power to
expropriate. With the prospect of such a tougher law, some hacendados preferred
to sell under the terms of the 1962 legislation. As it turned out, they did
get a better deal than those who waited, benefitting from relatively more
liberal assessments, higher land prices, larger downpayments, and greater like-
lihood of keeping a sizeable reserve.
Broadening the Scope of Land Reform
8.        During 1964-1974 two major obstacles were encountered in carrying
out changes in land tenure: the constitution and the land reform law. In
essence, the constitution prohibited the expropriation of land unless payment
was made on the spot, but sufficient public funds were not available to carry
out an extensive land reform program on a cash payment basis. Secondly,
Agrarian Reform Law 15,020 restricted expropriations to the holdings which



ANNEX 2
Page 3
were virtually unexploited. The Government accordingly pressured Congress
for amendment to Article 10 of the constitution and for passage of a land
reform law which would broaden the scope of expropriations. In addition to
limiting expropriation to poorly cultivated holdings, Law 15,020 restricted
the application of land reform in several other ways. It did not allow the
Government to redistribute water resources, to allocate land indiscriminately
without giving first priority to peasants living on the expropriated estates,
to organize the beneficiaries of land reform, or to assign land in definitive
ownership on any basis except that of individual property. The provisions of
the new Land Reform Law (No. 16,640) of 1967 empowered the President to settle
the above issues and expanded the grounds for expropriation to include land in
excess 80 basic ha regardless of whether such lands were rationally exploited.
Expropriations 1965-70
9.        Between 1965 and 1970, 1,406 estates were expropriated covering
3,557,000 ha. This was 14% of the country's farms and accounted for 23% of
the irrigated acreage and 14% of the total agriculture area. The 1,406
estates were equivalent to 29% of the number of agricultural properties that
were larger than 80 basic ha and hence expropriable under Law 16,640; but the
figure also included properties expropriated under other articles of Law
16,640 as well as under the previous Land Reform Law 15,020.
Expropriation and Land Quality
10.       The 1967 reform law created a new unit of land measurement called
the Basic Irrigated Hectare (BIH), in an attempt to devise a fair system for
fixing the "size" of a farm for purposes of taxation and/or expropriation.
This was done on the basis of an aerial survey of the entire central zone.
Some characteristics of the soil itself were taken into consideration, but
the most crucial distinction was between arable lands that were situated be-
low existing canals, and lands that were neither arable nor irrigable.
11.       On the basis of the aerial survey, the country was divided into
zones and "coefficients of equivalence" were derived for each zone. The
standard for the BIH was "1 ha of high quality irrigated land in the Maipo
River basin." The coefficients were designed to take productivity into
account and were then used to adjust the gross size of a given farm accord-
ingly. Thus, a very fertile farm of 50 ha with plenty of water might
be judged expropriable (equivalent to more than 80 basic ha), whereas a
farm of several thousand unirrigated ha might not be considered expro-
priable.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
The Asentamientos
12.       By September 1970, the reform sector included 1,406 formerly private
farms. Approximately 25,000 families had been settled on this expropriated
land, which represented about one-fourth of the Government's original goal.
It was foreseen that before legally assigning the land, the Agrarian Reform
Corporation (CORA) would manage the expropriated farms for three to five years
until the "asentados" (the farm workers occupying the land) became proficient
enough to administer the properties on their own. This period, after CORA
takes possession of the farm and until land is assigned is known as the
"asentamiento period." Within this period, a farming society is established
between CORA and the asentados. This enterprise has full legal status and is
generally known as a Sociedad Agricola de la Reforma Agraria (SARA) 1/. Ac-
cording to the law the peasants on each asentamiento (which averages about 30
families) would decide at the end of this period whether to continue with
cooperative ownership and management, to divide the land into individual units,
or to pursue some combination of the two. The Frei Government encouraged
cooperatives and mixed options, and most of the asentamientos which matured
during his term choose accordingly 2/.
The Land Reform Program during 1970-1973
13.       During this period land reform was planned in a broader context and
was not limited to redistribution of land usually not cultivated. The new
program, however, was conditioned by the processes set into motion by the
reform legislation of the previous peri od, by the existence of asentamientos,
by land title assignment procedures and by growing and by then organized
peasant unrest.
14.       Rural unrest was manifested by tomas, i.e., squatter invasions and
takeovers of agricultural estates and properties which were even smaller than
the 80 basic ha limit set by law. There had been tomas during this period
but of limited significance in both incidence and magnitude. They all
originated in conflicts with the estate owners. The subsequent takeovers
emphasized the slow pace of agrarian reform and the small number of those who
benefitted by it and pointed the way to a method of settling worker-employer
conflicts which the appropriate authorities had failed to resolve. In addi-
tion, during and after the presidential election campaign of 1970, the organ-
ized peasants wished to afford proof of their determination to take part in
decisions on national issues. Thus the number of property takeovers rose
steadily from 1967 to 1971:
1/   Other farming societies like Centro de Produccion (CEPRO) and Centro de
Reforma Agraria (CERAS) are also provided for in the law, but SARA is
the most commonly applied.
2/   Since September 1973, many cooperative farms have requested permission
to subdivide their properties for individual assignment. The present
Government has granted this request and CORA now expects that most of
the 200 cooperative farms will be subdivided.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
"Tomas"' of Agricultural Properties
Year               No.
1967                9
1968               26
1969              148
1970              456
1971           1,978
Total:    2,617
Expropriations
15.        The expropriations that took place in 1970-73 were characterized
by peasant pressure, participation by the Local Councils (Consejos Comunales)
and state interventions. The peasant takeovers of estates were aimed at hast-
ening their expropriation where there were conflicts or peasants who had long
hoped for the expropriation of the lands they cultivated. There were take-
overs on small as well as large properties. The takeovers of estates were
not intended solely to press for rapid expropriation. There were also at-
tempts to gain control over the working capital (machinery, livestock, etc.)
which was not included in normal expropriation procedures.
State Intervention
16.       The takeover of estates by farm workers posed a threat of decreased
agricultural output since the workers often lacked organization, management
skills, and access to supporting services needed to maintain production. The
Government, therefore, intervened in properties taken over by peasants, ap-
pointing administrators who were put in charge of all the estates, including
all their assets.
17.       From the beginning of 1972 until June 1973, about 4,400 properties
covering about 6.4 million ha were expropriated. The land expropriated since
1971 represented a substantial proportion of the country's area, although the
number of properties affected constituted but a fraction of Chile's farms in
view of the large number of minifundios.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Proportion of Chile's Agricultural Properties
and Main Land Categories Expropriated during 1965-1973
Total
Total Available                                    Expropriations
in 1965 before   Expropriations  Expropriations  as % of Land
Land Reform       1965-1970        1971-1973       Categories
Properties (No.)  232,955           1,406            4,400               2.5
Land Area ('000 ha):
Irrigated          1,253.7        293.0            436.5              58.2
Dry arable         4,124.2        359.0          1,141.9              36.2
Dry uncultivable 19,782.2       2,905.0          4,830.5              39.1
Total:   25,160.1      3,557.0          6,408.9              133.5
Consolidating the Benefits of the Agrarian Reform
18.       Soon after September 1973, the present Government announced its
intention to restore stability to the agricultural sector, including conso-
lidation of the benefits of the lengthy agrarian reform process. To this
end, the Government has (a) settled disputes with former hacendados involving
illegal land expropriations and rights to land reserves; (b) determined guide-
lines for the assignment of forest land and barren land expropriated under
the land reform law; and (c) accelerated the process of land title assignments.
Support measures have also been adopted to encourage more active private sector
participation in agricultural development.
Settlement of Land Disputes
19.       The accelerated pace of land expropriations and tomas 1/ during
the early 1970s resulted in (a) illegal confiscation of many properties; and
(b) many land owners being deprived of a basic land reserve they were entitled
to keep. After September 1973, many of these former land owners filed griev-
ance with the new Government in an effort to repossess all or a portion of
their land. Most cases were settled on an individual basis with claimants
(though some were settled in court), and between September 1973 and end
1975, nearly 2.4 million ha were returned to former owners. A few more cases
are being settled.
1/   Peasant takeovers of properties.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
20.       According to agrarian reform law, a claimant is entitled to retain
up to 50% of an expropriated property, not to exceed 80 basic ha plus 10
basic ha for each male child 1/.
Forest and Other Lands not Appropriate for Agricultural Use
21.       According to Decree Law No. 701 of October 1974, all forest land,
whether natural or planted as well as "other lands suited for forestry pur-
poses," is exempt from expropriation under the agrarian reform law. This
law is intended to prevent destruction of Chile's vast forest resources
which play an important role in the current Government long-term develop-
ment strategy (para 2.05). It paved the way for a September 1975 agreement
between CORA and the National Forestry Corporation (CONAF) which may exempt
up to 5.5 million ha (220,000 basic ha) of expropriated lands from assign-
ment under the land reform program. This land, presently held by CORA, is
classified as forest land, "other land best suited for forestry purposes,"
and barren land. Land use studies are currently being carried out to
determine the exact amount of land in these categories. Preliminary find-
ings indicate that only a small part of the 5.5 million ha is appropriate
for assignment; the remainder will be transferred to CONAF and will then be:
(a) returned to original owners; (b) assigned to new owners; or (c) retained
by the state.
Land Available for Redistribution
22.       The latest CORA estimate is that some 43,000 farm worker families
will receive some 8 to 9 basic ha each of land under the agrarian reform pro-
gram by December 1977. As recently as September 1974, it was estimated that
61,000 families would benefit from the agrarian reform. Two factors have
necessitated revision of this earlier figure: (a) at the time of the 1974
estimate, only 120,000 basic ha had been returned to original owners, but be-
tween October 1974 and December 1975 an additional 85,000 basic ha were re-
turned; and (b) more importantly, since the 1974 estimate, a decision was
made to reclassify approximately 5.5 million ha of forest and other lands as
"not appropriate for individual assignment" (equivalent to about 270,000
basic ha).
Assignment of Expropriated Lands
23.       The present Government has declared in early 1974 its intention of
restoring stability to the agricultural sector, including assignment of all
expropriated lands in the shortest time possible. During the entire period
1965-73 (September), only 1.1 million ha equivalent to 95,000 basic ha had
been assigned to 10,000 families under cooperative ownership. Since October
1973, there has been a gradual acceleration of the land titling process. Four
thousand three hundred and fourty three individual titles were assigned between
October 1973 and December 1974. A total of 14,936 titles were assigned during
1/ Even this total may not exceed 100 basic ha except in cases of excep-
tionally productive operations. During the entire claim settlement
period, less than 20 land owners were able to regain ownership of over
100 basic ha.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
1975. On average, 8.7 basic ha were assigned per family. CORA now estimates
that an additional 23,000 titles will be assigned to complete the land titling
distribution. Thus, an estimated 43,000 farm families (10% of all rural
families) should receive property titles under the land reform program under
the present administration by the end of 1977.
24.       The assignment of land requires in each case a soil survey, the
preparation of a cadastral map showing the lot size to be assigned, the
selection of qualified beneficiaries, and finally the title issue process.
Up until June 1975, CORA conducted these studies with its own field team.
Since June, however, in order to speed up the land titling process, CORA has
contracted private firms to carry out the technical-economic components of
the process such as soil surveys, land use, water rights and preparation of
farm size units. In addition, it has employed local lawyers for the prepara-
tion of title deeds and their recording in the appropriate land registry.
Of the 14,936 titles assigned during 1975, over 10,000 were issued during
October, November and December. For the period from January to October 31,
1976, CORA distributed 5,146 titles for 44,523 basic ha, and current estimates
are that, as for 1975, the bulk of titles for 1976, will be distributed in
November and December 1976, including about 10,000 titles for about 175,000
basic ha. CORA's further estimates show that for 1977, the final year of the
current agrarian reform program, about 103,000 basic ha will be assigned.
November 23, 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Agro-Industries: Processing and Marketing
A. The Dairy Industry
Milk Production
1.        Total milk production in Chile has increased steadily from 1960 to
1974 except for a decline in 1972 and 1973. The following table gives details:
Total               Milk Received by
Year                     Production          Plants for Processing
-      (Liters Million)               %
1960                        760                 361           48
1965                        810                 416           51
1970                        895                 526           59
1971                        940                 571           61
1972                        880                 506           58
1973                        855                 442           52
1974                        905                 523           58
2.        Accurate statistics are not generally available for total production,
and the figures used are estimated by CORFO, but the quantities received by
the processing plants are from actual records. Although the proportion of
milk for processing has increased gradually, a level of about 60% is rather low
and suggests that about 30% is still consumed in the rural areas and the urban
centers as unprocessed milk, leaving about 10% for calf-feeding, on-farm human
consumption and spoilage.
3.        From the standpoint of milk supply, three distinct geographical re-
gions can be identified: the central region, the mid-southern, and southern.
The central region comprises the Provinces of Santiago and Valparaiso and some
parts of Aconcagua and O'Higgins. The region is in a radius of about 150 to
200 km of Santiago, with a population close to 5 million people and is the
most important market for fluid milk and dairy products in Chile. This region
could probably be self-sufficient in milk production but total production has
declined over the years, as shown in the following table:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Milk Received by         % of Total Milk
Plants in Region        Received by Plants
Year                     for Processing             Countrywide
(Liters Million)
1960                         130.8                       36
1965                          89.7                       22
1970                          83.9                       16
1971                          81.1                       14
1972                          56.5                       11
1973                          38.6                        9
1974                          48.8                        9
4.        It is difficult to determine the reasons for this drop but it is
possible that more profitable cropping options were open to farmers, or that
competition was too great from low priced and reconstituted milk from locally
produced, as well as imported, milk powder. Since the main milk producing
areas are too distant for freighting fresh milk, this drop in production has
resulted in an inadequate supply of good quality fluid milk to Santiago and
the other cities in the region.
5.        The mid-southern region, comprising the Provinces of Nuble, Con-
cepcion and Bio-Bio, shows the following production statistics:
Milk Received by         Z of Total Milk
Plants in Region for    Received by Plants
Year                       Processing              Countrywide
(Liters Million)
1960                         50.8                       14
1965                         55.6                       13
1970                         78.7                       15
1971                         78.5                       14
1972                         69.7                       14
1973                         62.6                       14
1974                         74.4                       14
The region is located between 400 and 550 km south of Santiago and has
traditionally been considered too distant to be a source of fresh fluid milk
for that city. Production has, therefore, adjusted to the local demand of
the main cities in the area--Chillan, Concepcion and Los Angeles--and to the
demands of plants located in that area. This region, however, has consider-
able dairy potential and it is within trucking distance of Santiago. It
could, therefore, supplement the central region in supplying fresh fluid
milk to that market.
6.        The southern region includes the provinces of Cautin, Valdivia,
Osorno and Llanquihue. Dairying has developed considerably in this region
and milk supply now accounts for over 70% of the total milk production in
Chile. The growth in supply is detailed in the following table:



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Milk Received by         % of Total Milk
Plants in Region        Received by Plants
Year                     for Processing             Countrywide
(Liters Million)
1960                         165.7                      46
1965                         259.3                      62
1970                         343.4                      65
1971                         388.6                      68
1972                         358.4                      71
1973                         318.9                      72
1974                         380.5                      73
7.        The region is too far (800 to 1,000 km) from Santiago for transport-
ing fluid milk and most of it is processed into powder.  The main market for
this product is Santiago, where the powder is reconstituted to supplement the
supply of fluid milk to that city.
Present State of the Industry
8.        From the processing standpoint, Chile's dairy industry has the follow-
ing important characteristics:
(a)  most of the production is concentrated in the southern part of
the country;
(b)  milk supplies show a marked degree of seasonality; and
(c)  main markets are located at considerable distances from the
production areas.
These characteristics have had a strong influence in the location and type of
dairy processing developed in Chile. (They also explain the ample supply of
good quality milk available in the south, in contrast to the low quality milk
marketed in the major cities in the central part of the country.) Milk pro-
duction has a good potential in Chile (Annex 1) and by directing more invest-
ments to the mid-southern and the central regions, more and better quality milk
could be placed on the markets of the cities of Santiago and Valparaiso. In
fact Chile's dairy potential should ultimately generate an exportable surplus
of milk powder, thus terminating the import of this commodity which has been
substantial in the past.
9.        There are about 42 dairy processing plants operating in Chile and
during 1974 they received a total of 523 million liters for processing. Co-
operatives accounted for 41% of the volume. Five cooperatives own and operate
seven dairy plants and an additional 12 cooperatives collect and supply milk
to private dairy plants.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
10.       In the central region, there are five main plants, one in Valparaiso
with a capacity of 60,000 liters/day and the other four in Santiago. One of
these plants has a capacity of 200,000 liters/day, and the remaining three,
a total combined capacity of 150,000 liters/day. This is obviously insuffi-
cie!nt for a market of about 5 million people whose consumption (estimated
to be about 85 liters/capita annually) would require the equivalent of [.16
million liters/day for fluid milk and dairy products.
11.       This estimated demand is made up approximately as follows, taking
into account that the seasonality ratio (winter:summer production) of the
supply of fresh milk from around Santiago is not greater than 1:2.
Central Region: Source of Milk Consumed
(Based on 1974 Statistics)
Type and Source                 Summer Average   Winter Average        Average
Fresh Milk                     Liters/day   %   Liters/day   %   Liters/day   %
A) Processed in Plants:
1) From Central Region        190,000    16       90,000    8    140,000    12
2) From Mid-Southern
Region                   120,000    10      80,000    7    100,000       9
B) Loose Milk                     270,000    22    130,000   12    200,000    17
Reconstituted from Powder         470,000    39    650,000   59    560,000    48
Other Dairy .-roducts:
Cheese, etc. as Milk            160,000    13    160,000   14    160,000    14
Total Milk Consumed:            1,210,000   100  1,110,000  100  1,160,000   100
12.       From the table, it can be seen that nearly one-half of the milk sup-
ply in the central region comes from powder, less than 20% is consumed as un-
processed milk and the balance is consumed as processed milk (pasteurized) and
dairy products. Although powder will continue to be an important component in
the milk supply for this region, increased demand would mainly be in the form
of good quality fresh milk and dairy products made from such milk. Supplies of
fresh milk from the mid-southern region have been estimated at 100,000 liters/
day which is the amount projected to be received early next year. The bulk of
the milk powder produced is purchased by consumers and reconstituted by them.
However, the processing plants also reconstitute to supplement their needs,
particularly in the winter to maintain a stable supply. Milk reconstitution
from powder adds to the workload of the plants and wipes out the apparent sur-
plus processing capacity that the data indicate. To reduce the amount of loose



ANNEX 3
Page 5
milk consumed and meet the increasing derinand for more fluid quality milk and
dairy products, a processing plant of about 100,000 liters/day capacity would
be required.
13.       The processing plants in the central region are in satisfactory
physical condition, except for two old plants in Santiago (Soleche and
Delicias) whose combi.ned capaclty is 120,000 liters/day.
14.       In the mid-southern region, there are four main plants with a total
capacity of 460,000 liters a day; all but one are owned by individual coopera-
tives. One, with a capacity of 100,000 liters/day, manufactures cheese exclu-
sively. The other tLwo, one of which is located in Los Angeles and the other
in Chillan, produce pasteurized milk and products other than powder for the
region and have started freighting fresh milk to Santiago. The fourth plant,
located in Concepcion, has a capacity of 130,000 liters/day and produces milk
powder exclusively. These plants are generally in good condition and there are
plans to expand capacity to meet the rising demand for fluid milk and dairy
products in the region and to meet projected increased freighting of fluid milk
to Santiago. The ratio between winter and summer supply in this region ranges
from 1:2-1:4. To provide a steady supply to the cities in the region and to
Santiago, plants intend to pay higher prices in the winter to reduce the sea-
sonality ratio. As indicated in Annex 1, however, this may not be in the best
interest of producing milk at lowest cost possible in Chile.
15.       The southern region, which has grown into the most important milk-
shed in Chile, has 21 dairy plants, six of which process over 60% of the milk
volume. Most of the production is in the form of milk powder, but cheese is
also an important product.  In general, the plants are well equipped with
modern machinery and are well maintained. There is no shortage of capacity.
However, this may not be true if a strategy for dairy development based on
seasonal calving is implemented.  With procurement prices decontrolled as of
September 1975, the industry may revert to the former practice of paying
higher prices for winter milk to reduce the winter/summer ratio, which cur-
rently is about 1:10 and even 1:15 for some plants. This region produces
milk for manufacturing purposes essentially and it may be more profitable for
the dairy industry as a whole to accept the pronounced seasonality than force
an unnatural ratio which eventually will only increase the cost of powder and
other manufactured products.
16.       Normally milk is transported to plants in 50-liter cans by motor
lorries.  However, a number of plants are changing or considering changing to
bulk collection, which would involve the installation of bulk holding tanks
on farms and collection by refrigerated tankers. There is a danger, however,
that not enou-gh consideration will be given to the technical and financial
implications and that development will take place on an "ad hoc" basis, with
each plant adopting its own approach.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
17.       The sanitary quality of milk produced in Chile is poor relative to
quality levels normally found in countries with well developed dairy industries,
but this is not surprising because the prices paid by processors are related only
to fat content and milk is accepted, provided it is not sour. Under these
circumstances, farmers pay little attention to producing "clean" milk.
Strategy for Developing the Dairy Industry
18.       Objectives.  The objectives in developing Chile's dairy industry are
to:
(a) increase production of milk powder, not only to reach self-
sufficiency and discontinue importing this commodity, but
also to generate a surplus for export; and
(b) improve the quality and the quantity of fluid milk available
to urban centers in Chile, particularly in the central region
of the country.
19.       The first objective requires intensified development of the southern
region, with emphasis on on-farm investments to increase production, while the
second requires an increase in milk production, both in the mid-southern as
well as in the central region, and a corresponding increase in processing
capacity, particularly for Santiago. Investments should therefore be geared
mostly to expanding plants in and around Santiago, in the Provinces of Bio-
Bio and Nuble (mid-southern region), and, to a lesser extent, in the leading
dairy Provinces of Osorno and Llanquihue (southern region). Typical equipment
needed would include milk weighing tanks; pumps; centrifuges; can washers;
heat exchangers; holding tanks; bottling lines; bottle washing units; equip-
ment for making and packing butter, yogurt, ice cream and such; and civil
works and installation.  Recommendations are made in the following paragraphs
on ways to deal with specific problem areas.
20.       Location of Fluid and Manufacturing Milk Production Areas.  Fluid
milk, which is required mainly to supply the cities of Santiago and Valparaiso,
should be produced as much as possible on irrigated forage land within a radius
of 200 to 300 km of Santiago. Furthermore, fluid milk should be produced under
contract and the price paid for fluid and manufacturing milk should be related
to the market price of the final product.
21.       Milk Assembly.  In designing a milk assembly system, consideration
should be given to a number of important technical and economic factors, in-
cluding (a) herd sizes, location of farms relative to processing plants and
roads, and projected growth rate of milk supply and of farmers' herds;
(b) availability of water supplies, electrical supplies and access roads suit-
able for tankers; (c) comparison of total costs involved and the sharing of
costs between processor and farmer when milk is collected from each farm and
when a group of farmers deliver to a sub-station for collection by the



ANNEX 3
Page 7
processor; (d) standards and technical specifications suitable for local
conditions, including sampling and analytical procedures; and (e) choice
and procurement of equipment to meet specifications.
22.       Worldwide experience shows that the sanitary quality of the milk
supplied can be dramatically improved over a few years when a quality pay-
ment scheme is introduced. If a milk quality payment scheme is introduced,
it will be necessary to instruct farmers on clean milk production. This
service is often provided by the processing plants and it would appear to be
the best approach in Chile. Milk as produced by the cow is normally a clean
product (almost sterile) with bacterial contamination taking place after it
leaves the cow's teat. The main sources of contamination include dirty uten-
sils, milking machine, milker, cow's udder and surrounding surfaces. Conse-
quently, quality milk production revolves primarily around cleanliness and
the adoption of efficient cleaning techniques. A good supply of clean water
in the dairy shed is a prerequisite but the milker must also receive training
and instruction in hygienic methods of milk production, including washing
cows' udders before milking; cleaning the milking shed, milking machine and
dairy utensils; and using detergents and sterilants.
23.       After cleanliness, cooling is the next important step.  Milk should
be cooled as quickly as possible after it is taken from the cow. Under practi-
cal milking conditions, some level of bacterial contamination is inevitable,
even when high standards of cleanliness are observed. Milk is cooled to slow
down bacterial growth, to reduce deterioration in storage, and to prolong
storage life. At present, only about 5% of Chile's milk supply is cooled on
the farm.
Marketing
24.       Local Market.  Imports, mostly in the form of powder, have supple-
mented local production about 10 to 30% over the past decades. The peak was
reached in 1973 (41%), followed by a sharp decline in 1974 due to import
restrictions; no imports were recorded in 1975 and none are projected for
1976, as shown in the following table:
Direct      USAID    % Imported Reconstituted   Unit Price of
Imports,  Donations,        Milk of Total              Powder,
Year             tons      tons              Consumed                US$/ton
1965          17,261      7,862                 24                     388
1970           6,541      5,433                  12                    480
1971           9,371      9,958                  17                    617
1972          28,356      5,048                  28                    793
1973          53,103        605                 41                     605
1974          15,343         15                  14                    830
1975              -         -
1976



ANNEX 3
Page 8
All imports are handled by an official institution, Empresa de Comercio
Agricola (ECA), including donations from USAID as well as purchases for
distribution to the Government and private plants or other outlets.
25.       With the growing domestic production of milk and dairy products,
it is probable that imports of milk powder will remain low in the coming
years. The fact that the main milk producing region is so distant from the
main center of consumption will foreseeably lead to a situation where the
production of powder in the southern region will exceed the internal demand
and yield an exportable surplus. The central region will still have an un-
satisfied demand for fresh pasteurized milk, due to the increasing income of
the population there, which will allow consumers to cater to an expected
preference for fresh pasteurized milk over reconstituted milk from powder.
This is supported by the following statistics, showing main product mix and
quantities produced by all dairy plants in Chile.
1960    1965    1970      1971    1972    1973    1974
Pasteurized Milk         117       86       81      134      151      160     165
(Liters Million)
Cheese, tons           4,410   6,594   12,924  17,761  18,572  16,728  13,298
Butter, tons           4,625   6,206    5,904   6,608   5,322   4,285   6,465
Powder, tons          12,553  18,593   28,135  32,837  27,262  28,788  31,314
Pasteurized milk shows a considerable increase in the last four years, due
mainly to the increased output of the Chillan and Concepcion plants in the
mid-southern region and the Vina del Mar and the Delicias and Soprole plants
near Santiago in the central region. The trend is levelling off as plants
have reached saturation, and volume can be increased only by either reducing
seasonality of milk deliveries or investing in expanded capacity, particularly
for Santiago, where potential demand is greatest. Plants mix reconstituted
milk from powder with fresh milk to produce two types of pasteurized milk, one
with 2.5% butterfat sold at US$0.125 equivalent in 1-liter bottles and the
other with 3% butterfat sold at US$0.175 in 1-liter bottles. This latter
quality milk is also sold in expendable containers at US$0.203 per liter.
26.       Only the 2.5% butterfat quality milk is subject to Government price
control and vendors are required to stock this product at all times.  If sup-
plies run out, any of the other quality pasteurized milk available is sold at
the same price as the controlled variety. Under these conditions, approximate-
ly 60% of the pasteurized milk sold is of the 2.5% butterfat variety.
27.       Up to September 1975, when procurement prices were controlled,
plants paid producers a uniform US$0.077 per liter. Collection costs vary
between US$0.01 per liter around Santiago to US$0.025 per liter for the milk
brought to Santiago by road tanker from the mid-southern region.



NA7NNEX 3
IPageL
28.        Although demnrand for pasteur'ized mil-k is expected to contlnue to
ri:se, there are serious obstacles:  most retailers do not have facilities
for keepin,g th- mijlk u-nder refrigeration and only abouct _<2 off -he hoause
holds in Sanc'ago are reported to have refrigerators.  Pasteurized milk in
Tetrapak carLa.s is available at US$0Y273 equivalent per  iter b-ut sold i-n
very limited volume due to its high price.  Loncoleche, in  its plant In
Cautin, intends to produce sterilized milk in an asceptic containear far sale_
over the ent ire countryv
29.        u -eesee Iike powder, is a-n er'ective product for axtendJng the
shelflrIe            Coh milk,  lheese production showed impressive gains unt-il 1972 when
prices dropped in relation to powder.  IJnlike f1uid n.ilk and powder9 salle of
cheese is levied with a 20% (IVA) tax.  The main cheese varieties are fresh
and soft cheese, gouda type and hard cheese.  Cuirrent wholesale prices are
US$1.66 equivalent per kg for hard cheese and US$1.55 per kg for gouda cheese.
In general, the price of cheese runs about 18 to 22 tbmes the cost of raw
milk.  Demand for cheese is expected to essentially keep pace with the Dopu-
lation increase in the next few years.
30.        Butter is an important by-oroduct from the producLion cf powder
and standardized fluid milk.  It has no, sho-wn any partl-clari -p--adct-'on
trend except a pronounced drop in 1973.  Future de rand for butter               beou1  be
expected to correlate with population growth compounded wirth increased in
come per capita.  Current price is US$2.f0/kg equivalent to the consumer,
31.        Powde- is the most important dairy product in C- i re ani-.t is
consunied wi4 iin the country except for a small but groWIlng e--  0  For
domestic consun>,Pt on, the industry produces, inT addirtion to  ki.w iilk c-oar1,
milk with three different levels of fat  6ontent:  26%  13% -.m
milk powder is used by the processing plant for reconsta
with fresh mi'lk ta produce pasteurized -c-'IkG  Plarnts also  mJ          i--mii-
powder and butrleroil.
32?       2,1il -1 o nwoer. n  26% and '   Dce---.;_erfat co,^tent is       5s
in the consumer -_;rke-' in cans of O.ZS, kgs,   kg and 2 kg each5  The cur--e&t
reta'il p-ri    -9 7IS-_,95 eouiv-alent per  f,Yor 26% Fat cortsnc- &,7.'
per kc fcor the 18% fa  conte-it.  w'Jderit  a 1l20 fat                lva---  l  s
produced and sold by the industry exc usi-vely to the National 1realth Service
(Servicio Nacional de Salud- SNS) for supplying milk to hcspitals and
schools.  The current dereand is about 45 000 tons arnually a-ad 1- rs expec-ed
to increase.  'IT      ce is not con-trolled and SNS has beer rjlaig US4S0.86
per kg.  The industry also produces a  Alow cost reconstitute,  fa,--1F food from
powder, 5UppLeweoced with hydrolized wheat flour.  it coot- m  /' orotein
ant s`ells ivo'- a-o : US$1 45 equivale-nt per kg to the  nenS
33.        Production of milk powder is expected to increase nn view of the
potential of the southern region.  However, because of the likely preferen-ce
for pasteurized millk antd other products. a growing surplus for export would
Cooear to be a ogical consequence.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
34.       Export Market.  The export market for milk powder is very competi-
tive and currently there is an oversupply of this commodity in the world.
However, under the tariff concessions of the LAFTA market, Chile has exported
milk powder to several South American countries--two shipments have been made
to Colombia (one for 300 tons and another for 200 tons) and a 300-ton shipment
has been made to Venezuela. Discussions are also being held with Ecuador and
Bolivia concerning exports to those countries.
35.       The current international price for skim milk powder is US$680 per
ton, or US$0.68 per kg. Allowing for the value of US$1.80 per kg butter for
an initial 3.5% butterfat in the milk and a conversion rate of 9:1 from milk
to powder would leave US$0.826 per liter of milk to cover the price paid to
the producer, plus collection, processing and marketing costs. The margin
seems small and can be profitable only if producers and processors optimize
their symbiotic relationship to reduce costs as much as possible. Since pro-
curement prices were decontrolled in September 1975, the processing industry
in Chile has on many occasions expressed its intention to adjust prices in a
manner that would reduce seasonal fluctuations and increase plant throughputs,
thus avoiding heavy investments in expansion of capacity. However, this
could lead to an overall increase in the cost of powder and render it uncom-
petitive in the export market.
B. The Fruit Industry
General
36.       Chile's production of citrus, apples, pears, stone fruits and table
grapes have increased at an annual rate of about 3% since 1960. Population
during the same period grew at about 2.5%, thus indicating a net increase per
capita. During the 1960s, large producers and wholesalers lived under the
uncertainty of land reform, and there were no significant investments made in
the industry. However, because exports expanded rather vigorously up to the
middle 1960s, with volume up by 80% and value by 115%, CORFO commenced the
construction of fruit cold stores and packing lines mostly in strategic loca-
tions in the fruit growing areas. The objective was to provide refrigerated
warehousing and grading and packing facilities for growers and exporters to
avoid fruit spoilage, improve quality, and comply better with export market
requirements.
37.       Although export volumes declined between 1970 and 1974, total
values increased from US$7.1 million in 1968 to US$12.5 million in 1973.
Production and exports were increasing in 1975, and, supported by Govern-
ment's economic policy, growers, wholesalers, and exporters are considering
the time ripe for considerable investment in the industry in the form of
cold stores and packing lines. However, more than half of the projected
plans have been deferred due to lack of credit.



ANNEX 3
Page 111
Present Sta, ;-
38.                   -:-..o> aoeo:n                                           h each module
with a stoa                      - -                       ie os        kg/box  of fruit  These
cold seoz-,                                                         as -  -r-f o    S A. (ENAFRI),
a subsidiary o-          a               a. `aer  ehich time ENAFRI started to
selL some of Fh-3 - - c   CCrt-  : oe-2oers-  EtN.AFTs continued existence is under
review by the I:            - -S     -             a neede` service to the areas
which lacK 0-ie -J                              a  a-.:ecu'  ace d  t is felt that trans-
ferr-iag  <cc                       i:. -..2- c     c ->i2.c ½a  to a situation of
monopol,-  cn -ialt i?_ he  same area.
39.        AL-                                          through¢ the ports of
Valparaiso ani  a -n Ai    o.a raso)  w th about 55% of
the volume going tS-a- '.n-3i   h-s is expected to increase to 65%
in 1980.  The pso>e-J. spents for  fw- ut are as follows:
San Antonio
~a--kg Boxcs      -
2,057,000
3,9  05Q000
40.        Valpaoaisci  L     'so clandIs rost o  t= pel-h.abe imports that require
refrigerated S<c-a-as met                           '.          facilities for this
type of sco -.      .   O- S       ainc  .          n a. E-NAFRI is just finishing the
construote'_-n of .- r c d.- Vz i.-z. -sr-cr Y  co r T  T I- -  capaclty of 3759000 boxes
(7,500  pons3              a-i.  pa                            he ebqupped to fumigate
grapes befofre sh_pfnei  -       i,  L a a i i£ In the USA.  The operation will
take place undeo      -e- -             U SBA             cence, the requirement to
place the dep         9'-9e _ns '£ poi-t oerirmete  Ct iensure a stiort and controllable
route to the          sg r-  <a   r 
4 I .      The p-Aa              -   _   a                s    port anid this led to
the two-story    A°    :                                   and to operate.  In general,
the project   -. s.2  a d m-ere is doubt that it is
0~~~~~
commercially vizb>½      -pr<5  pears and3 a;apes are stored at 0 C; however, the
entire depot has be£e  e2Sg. 0ed 'or car-y-ing -21 C   The advisability of break-
ing the- C                                                        sh-ppi IO-re  ,   as debated,
This requires -L'--        Z e   '       '     euatcl-.eraure an  it is contended that
such an opeo               -lity   Cold store rates charged
by ENAFRI are r       - C-   j n            a    n <er box per month.  Private ex-
porters are bui                                   :.  a I   K' their own needs.  Their
strategy is to pr-c-lu  r:aa-:arate  apots in the producing areas to store
the fruit inmmediately a f tac- oa rveset -n  as -wel1 as cold store capacity near



ANNEX 3
Page 12
the port of shipment for prompt delivery to freighters in suitable loads.
The main single exporter, who in 1974 handled 25% of the total exports of
apples and pears and 47% of the export of grapes, is currently building
three cold stores, all in the capacity range of 200,000 to 300,000 boxes.
42.       With the port of San Antonio projected to beceme the main outlet
channel for fruit exports, CORFO began construction of a cold store there
similar to, but smaller than, the one in Valparaiso. It has one story and
a capacity of 200,000 boxes (4,000 tons). Construction was interrupted due
to lack of funds in April 1974, with about 50% of the civil works completed
and the refrigerating equipment landed on the site. The estimated cost was
US$2 million; however, to complete the Project an extra US$1.5 million would
be required.
43.       At present, there are about 68 fruit cold stores in Chile, with a
total capacity of 5,234,000 boxes; 29 are located in Santiago, representing
50% of the total capacity, which is far in excess of the requirements of that
city. CORFO has estimated the total national need for 1974 at about 5,800,000
boxes, which results in a net shortage of 570,000 boxes. However, the real
deficit in the production areas is much greater as it is masked by the excess
capacity in Santiago. CORFO estimates that the Provinces of Curico and Talca
have a shortage of 1,500,000 boxes, whereas Santiago has a surplus capacity
equivalent to 1,800,000 boxes. The Province of O'Higgins also has a shortage
of about 400,000; Colchagua of 300,000; and Concepcion of 400,000. Based on
projected fruit production, total requirements of refrigerated storage space
in 1980 would be about 9,100,000 boxes, representing an increase of 57% over
the 1974 requirements.
44.       The work method in the fruit cold store and packing industry is as
follows: the fruit received from harvesting is stored under refrigeration
immediately in wooden bins of about 400-kg capacity each. These bins are
stacked by lift trucks, and the depot is maintained at 0 C with ceiling-type
forced draft refrigerating units. The packing line is generally installed in
an adjacent shed and its operations are scheduled to meet market demand and
also level the workload to avoid fluctuations in the rate of employment of
labor. The operations involve washing, waxing, grading and packing. Fruit
for export is generally packed in cartons and for the local market in wooden
crates. Export volumes are packed in March and April, when the bulk of the
exported fruit is shipped. About 85% of the exports of apples are shipped
in March and the balance in April. Packing plants operate for at least six
months of the year to supply the local market. The cold store serves as a
convenient buffer to reduce fluctuations in fresh fruit prices in the local
market.



ANNEX 3
Page 1.3
Market
45.       Local Market.  Fresh fruit marketing for domestic consumption in-
volves a series of intermediaries which result in relatively high prices to the
consumer and at times not very attractive prices to the producer.  Most fruit
marketing takes place in Santiago. The chain of cold stores existing and pro-
posed will help to level prices throughout the year although it will also per-
mit a certain amount of speculation. Reject fruit from the packing firms is
sold in bulk or crates as unclassified fruit to small merchants, but it could
serve as excellent raw material for a fruit processing industry to produce fruit
juices, concentrates, preserves and fruit in syrup. However, the lack of a
cheap and good quality can has so far prevented this development on a significant
scale. Between 70 and 80% of the production of apples, pears and table grapes
are consumed in the domestic market.
46.       Export Market.  With its location in the southern hemisphere, Chile
enjoys the advantage of being able to supply fresh fruit to the markets in the
northern hemisphere during their off-season. Although Chile regularly exports
about 11 different types of fruit (apples, pears, grapes, nectarines, lemons,
plums, cherries, melons, peaches, almonds and walnuts), apples and grapes are
by far the most important. Together they account for over 80% of the value of
fresh fruit exports. Pears are third with around 10%. The Chilean fresh fruit
industry is thus essentially based on three main products.  Apple production
showed an impressive increase of 127% from '1968 to 1972, pears registered a gain
of 70%, and grapes, including wine grapes, went up 28%. Although production
declined in all cases in 1973, all fruits showed improvements in 1974 as in-
dicated in the 'Lol:Lowing table:
Wine and
Year      Apples          Pears         Table Grapes
-------------- (Tons) 
~968       66,000        20,000           813,000
i970       82,000         22,000           668.000
1971       93,000         22,000           910,000
1972       50,000         34,000         1,037,000
1973      148,000         32,000           953,000
1974      155,000         34,000           960,000
Source: FAO Yearbook,



ANNEX 3
Page 14
47.       In spite of production increases, export volumes stagnated during
the period 1970-73 due mainly to the aggressive marketing policies and system-
atic market penetration by Chile's main competitors, South Africa, Australia,
New Zealand and Argentina, as shown below:
Year        '000 Tons           US$ '000
1960             21              2,450
1968             43              7,109
1970             45              9,558
1971             55             11,440
1972             46             10,069
1973             45             12,543
Source: FAO
Apples                  Pears                     Table Grapes
Total        % of          Total     % of          Total         % of
Year      Exports   Production       Exports  Production    Exports    Production
(Tons)                   (Tons)                   (Tons)
1968        20.9         32           4.0          25          13.4          1.6
1970        18.9         23           5.4          25          15.9          2.4
1971        28.0         30           7.3          33          17.4          1.9
1972        23.9         16           5.3          16          15.4          1.5
48.       The main export markets have traditionally been the USA for table
grapes and pears, Europe for apples and pears and Latin America for apples,
pears and table grapes.  In general, the share of Chilean exports to the USA
and Europe has declined, while the share to the Latin American countries,
where Chile enjoys lower freight and tariff advantages offered by LAFTA, has
increased.  However, the trends from 1968 to 1972 cannot be considered as in-
dicative of Chile's future fruit exports. The'Government's favorable policies
have made producers, processors and exporters more confident and this is lead-
ing to new investments which will result in increased exports to both tra-
ditional and new markets, although these investments are limited due to the
lack of credit.



ANNEX 3
Page 15
49.        The USA has been the most important export market for fresh
Chilean fruits, except for apples. In 1968 and 1969, it accounted for about
50% of Chile's total export earnings (US$7.9 million) from fresh fruit. About
95% of the volume of grapes, peaches, plums and prunes exported is shipped to
the USA and, on an average, the USA obtained over 50% of the grapes it imports
from Chile. Grapes do not stand up very well in storage, which frees the
Chilean imports from having to compete with local production during the off-
season. Grapes should continue to do well in the USA market, whose imports
increased considerably in 1974, as shown in the table below:
Total USA       Chilean       Exports to USA
Year           Imports         Volume       % of USA Imports
---------------  ('000 Tons)              -
1968                            11.0
1970                             9.9
1971                -           11.9
1972               21.3         10.3             48
1973               16.0           -
1974               28.9
50.        Apples have never been exported to the USA although one exporter
has made some test shipments of green apples (Granny Smith variety) to the
USA and Canada. Since USA production of apples stands up well in storage,
it seems unlikely that Chile would be able to compete with domestic producers
or with such countries as Argentina and South Africa that have transportation
advantages.
51.        Although domestically produced pears provide strong competition,
Chile has exported the fruit to the USA. Volume declined considerably in
1972, but it is increasing again as shown below.  USA imports, however,
dropped in 1974, as shown in the same table:
Total USA       Chilean        Exports to USA
Year            Imports         Volume         % of USA Imports
-------__----- ('000 Tons) 
1968                              2.3
1970                              1.1
1971              -               2.4                    -
1972             9.6              0.5                    5
1973            12.6
1974             9.3
52.        Freight costs are comparatively high for Chile, due to its geo-
graphical location and the relatively small size of the shipments. There-
fore, since fresh fruit from Chile cannot compete with the USA west coast
production, it is shipped to the eastern seaboard where 90% is generally
landed in the port of New York and the balance in the port of Baltimore.
The USA buys the fruit on free consignment and most of it is auctioned



ANNEX 3
Page 16
off to wholesalers in the port of New York and the rest directly to dis-
tributors. Fruit is generally not kept in cold store, with shipments being
scheduled to meet consumer demand. In general, there is a premium for the
first shipments of fruit to arrive in the off-season. One drawback is that
fruit is not identified by origin, which is regarded as a disincentive for
national promotion.
53.       Europe has been an important outlet for fresh Chilean apples and
pears, but not for table grapes, peaches, plums or prunes. About 60% of
the total export volume of apples is marketed in Europe, primarily in the
Federal Republic of Germany, The Netherlands and Sweden. The European Comon
Market is a gigantic growing outlet whose total imports of apples amounted
to 1.3 million tons in 1974, an increase of 9% over the previous year. The
Federal Republic of Germany, the largest single market, imported 695,000 tons
in 1974, up by 17% over 1973. However, exports from the EEC were also 9%
higher in 1974 than in 1973. The most important suppliers of apples in 1974
to the EEC and the Federal Republic of Germany in particular were as follows:
Federal Republic
of Germany
EEC Imports     %        Imports                %
('000 Tons)             ('000 Tons)
France           545         42         266                 38
Italy            258         20         194                 28
South Africa     125         10          40                  6
Argentina         87          7          43                  6
Netherlands       75          6          45                  6
Australia         49          4            9                 1
New Zealand       42          3           12                 2
-------------------------------------------------------------
Chile             15          1           6                  1
Other             104         7          80                 12
Total          1,300        100         695                100
Source: Fruit Intelligence



ANNEX 3
Page 17
54.       The EEC markets are dominated by France and Italy.  Among the
southern hemisphere producers, Chile trails far behind South Africa,
Argentina, Australia and New Zealand. However, it should be able to com-
pete with Australia and New Zealand if it adopts more aggressive marketing
techniques. The history of Chilean exports to its main European buyers of
apples and pears is shown below:
Chilean Apple Exports
Federal Republic
Year          of Germany         Netherlands         Sweden
('000 Tons) 
1968            8.3                  -                2.3
1970            5.1                 1.6               1.6
1971            5.9                 2.3               2,1
1972            5.2                 5.2               0.3
1973             2.4                5.0               NA
1974            5.9                 8.2               NA
Chilean Pear Exports
Year      Netherlands           Sweden
('000 Tons) -
1968          -                 0.3
1970         0.7                0.8
1971         0.9                 1.0
1972         1.0                0.8
1973          -                  NA
1974         1.2                 NA
Source: Fruit Intelligence
55.       Chilean sales to the European markets are on an FOB, or minimum
guaranteed price basis, with letter of credit. Any difference in the final
price is shared between exporter and importer. South Africa and New Zealand
sell on a free consignment basis and Australia and Argentina on minimum
guaranteed price basis. Chilean exports have fluctuated considerably, both
in totals and between countries, a situation that is likely to continue. The
European market also offers good prospects for fruit juices and dried fruits.
Production of these items is being started but volumes are small.



ANNEX 3
Page 18
56.        Major exports of apples to other Latin American countries are
mainly to Colombia and Peru; table grapes, mainly to Brazil and Venezuela;
and pears to Brazil and Peru, as shown on the following table:
Chilean Apple Exports
Year              Colombia           Peru
---- ('000 Tons) ----
1968                0.7              5.2
1970                2.8              5.6
1971                6.6              5.1
1972                7.8              3.1
Chilean Table Grapes Exports
Year              Brazil         Venezuela
('000 Tons)     
1968               0.3              1.3
1970               2.0              2.0
1971               1.7              1.9
1972               2.0              1.7
Chilean Pear Exports
Year              Brazil            Peru
---- ('000 Tons) ---
1968               0.4              0.7
1970                -               1.4
1971               0.6              0.9
1972               0.1              1.1
57.        In Brazil, Chile suffers very strong competition from Argentina.
However, in the Andean market Chile is reported to have made good progress,
particularly in 1974 in Peru, Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador and Bolivia. As
usual, apples, pears and table grapes account for over 90% of all Chilean
fresh fruit exports to Latin America. All fruit exported to this market
is sold on a firm FOB or CIF basis but, in general, importing agencies lack
experience, which results in a poor feedback to the exporters. It is very
likely, however, that, with its favorable location with regard to the Andean
market countries and the growing income of these nations, the Latin American
market ultimately will replace Europe as the principal export outlet for
Chilean apples and pears.
58.        There are about 37 exporters of fresh fruit in Chile.  However,
six firms handle 80% of the export volume and three are cooperatives. Pri-
vate exporters advance interest-free money to growers to cover inputs and
they purchase the production at harvest time. They also provide technical



ANNEX 3
Page 19
service to farmers on a basis of one technician to about 40 producers. Co-
operatives render a marketing service to their producer members and pay the
price resulting from their sales after deducting expenses.
59.       Prices.  A 6-kg box of table grapes is sold at about US$14 in the
USA. After deducting expenses, the price paid to the farmer is US$2.16
equivalent. Following is a summary of the cost breakdown:
US$16-kg box of grapes
Cost at farm-gate:                            2.16
Commission                                    0.04
Cost at cold store:                           2.20
Co'ld store, inland freight, port fees, etc. 1.40
Cost at Chilean port                          3.60
Ocean freight                                  3.40
Commissions, duty, insurance                   1.00
Cost at USA port                              8.00
Marketing in USA                               6.00
Price to USA wholesaler                       14.00
60.       FOB prices of green apples are about US$7 per 20-kg box, mostly
exported to Europe, and US$6.20 per box for red apples, generally sold to the
Latin American market.  Pears are sold at US$6.50 per box FOB Chilean port.
In general, the Chilean producer gets less than 20% of the wholesale price
quoted in the importing country.
Investments Required in the Fruit Industry
61.       Investments in the fruit industry should be mostly for new cold
stores, fruit packing lines, and expansion of existing units, and new facili-
ties should be built near the producing areas, particularly in the Provinces
of Curico and Talca. Cold stores are likely to range in size from the equi-
valent of 20,000 to 250,000 boxes. The smaller units would be owned mostly
by small independent producers and would rarely include a complete packing
line. The larger depots would belong to cooperatives or associations of
producers or to the leading wholesalers in the export or local markets.
Complete packing lines would generally be included, ranging in capacity from
3,000 to 8,000 boxes in eight hours. Dried fruits and dehydrated vegetables
are also gaining importance in export volumes and some investment in related
equipment is also expected.



ANNEX 3
Page 20
C. The Wine Industry
Background
62.       Chile has been a wine producing country since the early days of
Spanish rule. Annual production in the last 10 years has averaged
about 470 million liters, with 14 cooperatives accounting for about 24% of
the total. Wine quality improved substantially around the middle of the 19th
Century when French varieties and processing techniques were introduced, and,
as a result, Chilean wines achieved worldwide recognition and prestige.
Present State of Industry
63.       The Chilean wine industry has been "frozen" in place for many years.
Improvements have been limited regarding introduction in the cultivation of
grapes and in the techniques of wine processing; many facilities and equip-
ment have grown old, worn and obsolete. As a result, the industry as a whole
requires substantial investments.
64.       High taxation, restrictions on new plantations, and unfair compe-
tition by producers who elude taxes also have contributed to the onset of
this process and are making it difficult to halt its progress. Low yields
from old plantations are common in rainfed areas, and about 35% of the grape-
vines are reported to be over 50 years old. There are also important draw-
backs in the processing method itself, ultimately affecting the quality of
the wine. Improper crushing equipment, for example, has allowed ground seeds
and stalks to be included, as well as dust and foreign matter. There is a
general lack of refrigerating equipment and a shortage of isothermal vats
for stabilizing wine and of modern filtering equipment. Additionally, import
restrictions for the last 30 years have prevented the normal replacement of
wooden vats essential to ripening red wine. There have also been difficul-
ties because the wine bottles used are not uniform, particularly the diameter
of the neck, which has led to leakage from loose fitting corks. INDITECNOR,
the official organization for setting standards, has issued specifications
for quality and size of wine bottles, but the two main manufacturers have
been slow to comply.
65.       A license is required to produce wine, but controls are not always
enforced and many producers have acquired basic equipment (grape crushers,
screw presses, portable pumps and filters) and built the necessary fermentation
and holding vats to produce wine without license. This product is generally
sold in barrels (400 liters each) in the neighboring areas or the suburbs of
Santiago and Valparaiso. Since wine grapes are harvested from February to
April, the small producers who lack adequate processing facilities must sell
their wine before September (to avoid souring) and this causes a marked
seasonal drop (winter) in the price of the wine, which affects particularly
the small producers. Small- and medium-sized producers also sell wine in bulk



ANNEX 3
Page 21
to firms who specialize in processing and who sell wine in bottles and
demijohns 1/ under their own brands. Such firms normally own vineyards but
a large part of their supply is still purchased bulk wine all of which is
marketed under the firm's own brand label, These processors submit the wine
to a process of stabilization in insulated isothermal vats at -5°C, filtering
it afterwards through special asbestos-based material. A controlled process
of ripening follows in vats of concrete or oak.
66.       Sales of bottled wine have increased steadily; from about 20 million
liters annually (1969) to 156 million liters in 1972, according to a survey
by CORFO. This latter figure represents about 34% of total production. Also,
in 1972 about 179 million liters (39%) was sold in demijohns. Bottles and
demijohns together accounted for 73% of the total national production and
represented the wine processed and sold by licensed firms. The balance, 27%,
was sold in barrels by unlicensed producers.
67.       The Government has announced its intention to prohibit sale of wine
in barrels commencing in 1976, which should reduce illicit wine making, reduce
tax evasion, and raise average quality since only wine in bottles or demijohns
would be marketed. This measure would force many small producers who cannot
afford to bottle and market under their own brand to sell their entire produc-
tion to other firms, join existing cooperatives, or form new cooperatives or
commercial associations with other producers in similar situations. Wine-
making would thus, in general, pass from the small individual producer to new
larger plants owned by cooperatives or commercial enterprises, which is proper
since the larger wineries could better afford the modern equipment and tech-
nical staff to monitor wine-making adequately to produce wine of consistent
quality for the local and the export market.
Marketing
68.       Domestic Market.  The domestic market is by far the most important
as it absorbs over 98% of production. Annual wine consumption dropped from
over 70 liters per capita in the 1950s to 45 liters per capita in 1974, but
with rising consumer purchasing power, coupled with improved yields from
replacement of old plantations, it is expected to increase substantially over
the next five or 10 years. Wine is subject to a 20% added value tax (IVA),
compounded by an additional 20% tax applicable on alcoholic beverages (ILA).
Dumping wine during the winter months (May to August) by tax-evading producers
causes considerable price fluctuations which hurt law-abiding firms. For
example, wholesale bulk wine prices in June 1975 were US$0.04/liter but by
October, when probably 70 or 80% of the wine production had been sold, bulk
prices jumped to US$0.11 per liter. Wine in 0,7-liter bottles sold at
US$0.64/liter and in 5-liter demijohns at US$0.24/liter. Cost of production
is estimpated at US$0.09 per liter. Restriction on the sale of wine in barrels
and strong action against illicit and tax-evading producers should help con-
siderably in stabilizing prices.
1/   Demijohns are large glass bottles (1 to 5 gallons) encased in a protec-
tive bucket-type mesh-



ANNEX 3
Page 22
69.       Export Market.  Wine exports contributed about 2% to Chile's
merchandise export earnings in 1974. Exports reached a record level in
1958 with 34 million liters but after that the drop was dramatic. Volume
is picking up again since the low level in 1971/72 but there is a long way
to go to even come close to reaching earlier achievements, as shown below:
Chilean Exports of Wine
Volume                Value
Year            (Liters Million)       (US$ Million)
1970                  4.6                   1.8
1971                  3.6                   1.8
1972                  3.6                   2.1
1973                  4.2                   2.9
1974                  4.7                   3.6
Prices (FOB) have increased as shown below:
Bottled Wine           Bulk Wine
Year             (US$/Liter)          (US$/Liter)
1970               0.74                  0.12
1971               0.65                  0.26
1972               0.76                  0.20
1973               0.82                  0.29
1974               0.91                  0.40
70.       The European market offers very limited possibilities due to the
dominance of French, Federal Republic of Germany, Italian and Spanish wines
and the protective tariffs adopted by the EEC. Algeria is also an important
exporter of wine to Europe and has the advantage of proximity to that market.
Nevertheless, Europe is so far the most important market for Chilean wines
in bulk, as shown in the following table:
Exports of Wine in Bulk
(US$'000)
Market               1970       1971       1972       1973        1974
Andean                6.5       12.8          -          -        17.1
Other LAFTA           0.1          -          -          -           -
North America           -        1.0          -       17.4        38.5
Central America         -        0.1         -           -           -
Europe              311.0      346.0     224.1       342.5       540.1
Other countries       0.3        9.4       0.2         5.5           -
Total:              317.9      369.3     224.3       365.4       595.7



ANNEX 3
Page 23
The main importing countries of Chilean wine in bulk in 1974 were Ecuador,
Venezuela, Canada, Switzerland, Federal Republic of Germany, Belgium and
the United Kingdom.
71.       Bottled wine accounts for about 84% of the total value of wine
exports. The predominant market is the Western Hemisphere, and, within
this area, the Andean market (Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia and Venezuela).
It is not yet known to what extent Chile's position within the Andean Pact
will affect wine exports to these countries. Relevant export statistics for
the period 1970 through 1974 are as follows:
Exports of Wine in Bottles
(US$'000)
Market              1970        1971        1972        1973        1974
Andean              408.8       428.0       692.2       954.3      1,347.0
Other LAFTA         192.0       115.1       256.8       3503        784.3
North America       282.8       237.9       254.3       783.8        682.5
Central America    608.8        627.9       582.0       273.3        121.1
Europe               18.9        13.9        24.9        86.0         11.6
Other countries      10.0        13.3        34.2        37.1         56.9
Total             1,521.3    1,436.1    1,844.4    2,484.8        3,003.4
72.       Chile has made great progress in the South American market, despite
the competition from Argentine wines, which also enjoy preferential tariffs
as members of LAFTA. As a member of the Andean Pact, Chile benefited from
still further tariff reductions in its exports to Colombia and Venezuela by
the "treaty of Cartagena." Venezuela, an OPEC country, is expected to import
about US$3 million in wine in 1977, of which Chile expects to account for
one-third. Although Brazil is the third largest wine producer in South
America (200 million liters annually), it is also an important net importer.
Chilean exports to Brazil in 1973 amounted to US$221,000 and in 1974 to
US$512,000 (an increase of 131%). In North America, Canada represents an
important growing market, imported wine amounting to about US$50 million in
1972. However, the USA is the largest market for bottled wine in the world
and imports in the last few years have been spectacular (see table below);
however, the Chilean share of total USA wine imports in 1973 was 0.4% and
dropped to 0.3% in 1974, on a volume basis.



ANNEX 3
Page 24
United States
Wine Sold According to Origin
(Liters Million)
Year    California      Rest of USA    Total of USA   Imports    Total
1965       541              115               656           62        718
1970       739             159                898          114     1,012
1971       853             165              1,018          137     1,155
1972       900              197             1,098          178     1,276
1973       915              190             1,105          209     1,314
1974       939              189             1,128          195     1,323
73.       Although exports to the USA increased in 1973, Chile faces strong
competition from Argentina, as shown:
USA Wine Imports from Argentina and Chile
(US$'000)
Country        1972          1973       1974
Argentina        77           570       1,500 (estimated)
Chile           215           464      Lower volume than 1973,
value not available
74.       The USA market offers undoubtedly the largest export potential for
Chilean wines, but certain problems exist, which can be summarized as follows:
(a)  bottle manufacturers in Chile have been slow to respond to the
needs of the export market: production of bottles of the stan-
dard sizes required by the USA market is limited, neck sizes have
too much variation, corks are frequently too short and of poor
quality, and labels are of poor quality;
(b)  Chilean exporters and producers are not fully familiar with the
USA market, they do not have enough information of what the
market requires and the standards it demands; and
(c)  wine is not consistently of good quality.



ANNEX 3
Page 25
75.       There are about 12 wine exporters in Chile, five of which handle
about 80% of the volume. If the Government continues maintaining realistic
rates of exchange, export earnings should be attractive enough to encourage
the leading firms to overcome the problems mentioned.
Investments Required to Modernize the Industry
76.       To modernize the wine industry, the following actions are needed:
(a) existing winery equipment and facilities of single producers
should be replaced so that they could continue to operate
independently. Typical investment items needed are grape-
crushers, screwpresses, portable pumps, filter presses,
concrete vats for fermentation and holding wine and sheds
for housing these facilities;
(b) a few wineries should be built or existing wineries owned by
cooperatives or commercial societies should be rehabilitated
to replace obsolete wineries owned by smaller producers; and
(c) processing equipment for improving wine quality and filling
bottles and demijohns should be purchased. Typical investment
items would be refrigerating equipment, insulated isothermal
vats, asbestos filters, bottle and demijohn filling lines,
bottle nd demijohn washing machines and labelling machines.
Corresponding civil construction and installation are required. The fore-
going items typify the investments in wine processing to be financed under
the proposed Project (Annex 8).
77.       There are two firms in Santiago which manufacture winery equipment
duplicating the European designs. However, the more complex heat exchangers
for refrigerating wine, the isothermal vats, filters, and bottle filling and
washing equipment must be imported. Argentine equipment, including servicing,
is readily available and is more competitive than French, Spanish and Italian
equipment which can be imported.
78.       The Government can best help by providing credit such as that to
be supplied under the proposed Project. The larger firms are in the best
position to correct the industry's present ills. Partnership with foreign
firms, such as Pedro Domecq of Spain, with whom arrangements have already
been made, should give the Chilean wine industry valuable processing and
export marketing know-how.
November 23, 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY PROJECT
Credit to the Agricultural Sector in Chile
A. General
1.        Institutional credit to the agricultural sector in Chile is pro-
vided mainly by the State Bank (Banco del Estado--BECH) and two specialized
Government institutions--the Development Corporation (CORFO) and the Small
Farmer Development Institute (INDAP)--and to a lesser extent by other commer-
cial banks and private development banks. A reportedly substantial amount
of non-institutional credit is also provided by agro-industries and by traders,
but actual figures are not known.
B. The State Bank (BECH)
2.        BECH is an autonomous public institution established in 1953 by
a merger of five public institutions, dealing, respectively, with savings,
mortgage, commercial credit, agricultural credit, and industrial credit.
In 1960, however, a Government Decree (DFL 251) modified BECH's statutes,
policies, and procedures, authorizing it to handle: (a) banking, development
and commercial operations; (b) savings deposits; (c) mortgage lending; and
(d) issuance of bonds. It also was appointed as fiscal and financial agent of
Government-owned enterprises. BECH is currently the only bank in the country
allowed to hold long-term savings deposits, although plans are being made to
extend this prerogative to private banks as well; Tables 1 through 5 provide
details of BECH's financial condition.
Organization and Management
3.        Although, by statute, BECH has a Board of Directors composed of
16 members representing the main banking institutions and professional acti-
vities in the country, a Government Decree issued on October 25, 1973 concen-
trates all Board responsibilities and prerogatives in the hands of the
president of BECH. He also acts as administrator, with the assistance of an
advisory committee, composed of senior executives, including the executive
vice president, the general manager, the chief of economic advisors, and the
controller. The committee advises the president on (a) economic and finan-
cial policy setting, including the establishment of rates of interest for
short-term lending and savings accounts following guidance of CB; (b) admi-
nistrative and personnel management; (c) control of accounts and budgetary



ANNEX 4
Page 2
policy; (d) internal and external sources of financing and cost of capital;
and (e) organization and control of branch offices. BECH's main departments
are foreign trade, savings; development credit responsible for all medium-
and long-term lending (including agriculture); trust funds; agriculture,
which handles agricultural short-term lending only; and operations, respon-
sible for commercial short-term non-agricultural lending. The main adminis-
trative departments are controller, personnel administration, organization,
and data processing.
4.        BECH, as of June 30, 1975, had a network of 195 branches, two sub-
branches, and six ancillary sub-branches, scattered widely throughout Chile.
Each branch has a manager who has a well-defined level of responsibility and
authority and an agricultural section staffed with experienced technicians who
have ready access to advice from a group of 54 senior agronomists attached to
BECH at a regional level. BECH also owns and operates a country-wide network
of warehouses which is linked with the state railways system and is used to
store agricultural inputs to be sold on credit to farmers, but this activity
is now gradually transferred to the private and cooperative sector.
Staffing
5.        Staff, as of June 30, 1975, totalled 5,952, representing a decrease
of 222, or a drop of about 4%, from December 31, 1974 (Table 2). About 700
are professionals or technicians and about 250 hold managerial positions.
The agricultural department employs 803 persons, 224 of which are technicians.
The staff is generally of good caliber. BECH has a good training department,
open to all levels of staff, and it encourages and finances independent train-
ing in universities and specialized institutions within and outside Chile. In
addition, it offers a variety of fringe benefits, among which are housing and
schooling facilities for staff families. Salaries, however, are low due to
the present economic recession, which is currently causing a serious braindrain
of technicians to other South and North American countries.
Lending Policies
6.        Tn 1974, BECH accounted for about 80% of agricultural lending of the
national banking system and specialized public institutions. BECH's lending
pattern during the 1970-74 period clearly reflects a shift in emphasis from
industry and trade to agriculture (Table 1). In fact, loans to agriculture
increased from 29% of total lending in 1970 to 68% by June 1975.  Within the
agricultural sector, BECH finances mainly working capital (fertilizers and
seeds) of small- and medium-size farmers, using a special line of credit
(integrated agriculture credit) of the Central Bank and its own short-term
deposit funds. About 50% of its lending is in kind. Term lending is financed
basically with long-term savings deposits and a US$22 million loan from IDB
made in 1974, extended at 2-1/2% annually to BECH to finance mainly farm
equipment, irrigation wells and canals, silos and stables. By November 1976,
IDB had disbursed US$15.5 million eqivalent. BECH's short-term lending is
extended at current rates of interest, which are slightly higher than the rate
of infiation,



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Financial Structure and Operational Performance
7.        As in the case of most financial institutions in Chile, financial
resources have been severely affected by operating under high inflation. In
the years shortly before 1974, BECH was acting as a Government agency,
supplying low cost money to agriculture and other sectors of the economy.
Funds were made available by the Government at no cost and interest rates
charged to beneficiaries ranged between 20% and 60% while inflation was
already running over 200% a year, causing a substantial capital erosion.
Since 1974, however, efforts have been made to make BECH a sound financial
institution and to spur economic recovery and development in the country.
Short-term interest rates are now higher than the inflation rate and are
continuously revised to avoid capital erosion. Long-term rates are set
between 8% and 12%, with principals indexed to the Consumer Price Index. The
financial structure indicators (Table 2) reflect this situation. The total
debt to net worth ratio, measuring the relationship of all short-term and
long-term debt, plus guarantees to capital and reserves, has decreased from
37.3 to 1 in 1973 to 9.6 to 1 in 1974, while the long-term debt to net worth
ratio was 0.7 to 1 in 1974. BECH's financial structure, which is character-
ized by very limited own resources (capital and reserves), is generally in
line with its operations, which are mainly short-term lendings. Overdues
and delinquent loans, which also were within reasonable proportions during
the period under consideration, were reduced to a level of less than 1% in
1974 and were always adequately covered by provisions for doubtful debts.
The same situation is apparent in agricultural lending (Table 3), for which
the level of arrears over the last three years was kept at less than 2%
and defaults at one-third of 1%.
8.        BECH's operational indicators show that steps are being taken to
reduce costs and increase income. Although the cost of debt as a percentage
of debt has grown rapidly over the last two years, income from lending has
increased proportionally, thus maintaining a satisfactory spread between
BECH's income and costs. Administrative expenses were at an acceptable level
(4.4% of total assets) in 1974. This is also reflected in the administrative
cost per unit of professional staff, which was reduced from US$7,700 in 1973
to US$5,500 in June 1975, despite the decrease in the number of professional
staff (para 5). The number of loans handled per professional staff is high,
although short-term lending, which often involves the supply of seeds and
fertilizers and constitutes about 85% of BECH's portfolio, does not normally
require specialized extension services.
Accounts and Auditing
9.        Each of BECH's departments keeps its own accounts and all are
consolidated at the end of the year. These accounts are well handled and
information on such matters as arrears and volume of deposits is periodically
supplied to headquarters, duly processed, and made available for analysis
to the various departments by the data processing department, which is ser-
viced with IBM hard- and soft-ware facilities.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
10.       Internal auditing until recently was less than satisfactory as
it was undertaken by the fiscal division at year's end only on accounts
supplied by the different departments and branch offices. Since September
1975, however, staff members of a newly created independent auditing divi-
s-on visit the field periodically and control both operational activity and
accounts. External auditing is provided by the Superintendency of Banks,
an independent public institution which exercises accounting and opera-
tional control of all Chilean financial institutions. It is carried out
effectively through periodical control on financial and administrative opera-
tions on a sample of branch offices selected at random and through an annual
control of the departmental and consolidated accounts at headquarters. The
annual audit report is usually made available within three months after the
end of the fiscal year.
C. The Development Corporation (CORFO)
General
11i.      The Development Corporation (CORFO) is an autonomous public devel-
opment corporation established by Law No. 6640 in 1939 to plan, promote,
and coordinate public and private investment. Directly or through its
affiliates, CORFO is involved in a wide variety of activities, such as
agricultural, industrial, mining production and development; modernization
and development of communication and transportation networks; investigation
and exploitation of natural resources; trade promotion; and technological
research and development. In the agricultural sector, it controls all sugar
reflning, and oilseed processing; and a substantial share of grain storage,
poultry production, and meat and fruit freezing capacity.
12.       During the previous administration, CORFO acquired a number of
companies, which are now in the process of being sold back to the private
sector. Among these are 40 agro-industries that are offered to cooperatives
or bidders who control sufficient agricultural production to supply more
than 40% of the plants' processing capacity.
Organization, Management, and Staffing
13       A Naticnal Council, composed of representatives of the main eco-
nomic ministries, banks, and corporations in the country, and presided over
by the Minister of the Economy, decides on policy issues and allocation of
funds to CORFO, while administration is in the hands of an Executive Com-
mittee, headed by an executive vice-president and composed of a general
manager and the heads of four main operational departments--affiliated com-
panies, development, financial operations, and administration. Since 1960,



ANNEX 4
Page 5
CORFO has followed a policy of administrative decentralization under which
it has set up 12 regional offices and 25 agencies. Ten of the regional
offices handle agricultural development and production.
14.       CORFO's professional staff increased from 1,800 to 4,500 between
1970 and 1973, a period when the corporation was acqui'ring many expropriated
operations. Since 1973, however, CORFO has been divesting itself of the
ownership of most small- and medium-size enterprises, hence reducing dras-
tically its staff. As of December 1974, CORFO's professional staff was
reduced to 1,500 and as of September 1975 to 746. The present plans are
to reduce it further to a core of 500 well-qualified professionals, a con-
siderable part of which would work in the regional offices and in the agencies,
and provide sectorial development planning and technical assistance to
development corporations. About 75% of the present staff members are t:ech-
nicians, among which are 110 agronomists and 45 agriculturalists, and the
balance, administrative personnel.
Investment and Lending Policies
15.       As the major Government corporation for the economic and social
development of the country, CORFO either owns directly or it has lent sub-
stantial funds to most of the largest service and manufacturing enterprises
in the country, and it has interest in industry, mining and agriculture.
16.       CORFO's loan portfolio as of December 1975 amounted to US$347
million, of which 22% was for agriculture. Over 1972-74, it had an average
distribution of about 40% of loans to industry, 25% to agriculture and live-
stock (Table 6) and the balance mainly to mining and fisheries. About 90% of
agricultural lending was medium and long term, mainly for fruit, livestock,
agricultural machinery and rural electrification. Loans are usually extended
for a five- to 10-year period at rates of interest averaging about 8% and are
indexed to the Consumer Price Index (IPC) (Table 7). During 1974 and the
first six months of 1975, when CORFO was changing its policy from equity par-
ticipation to the extension of long-term loans, its volume of agricultural
lending increased substantially. This shift in lending policies, also ap-
parent from the decrease in the number of beneficiaries from 13,000 in 1971 to
1,700 in 1974, indicates that the corporation is becoming more selective in
extending its loans to larger agricultural undertakings and to agro-industry.
Financial Structure and Operational Results
17.       The balance sheet shows (Table 8) that CORFO is basically a GOv-
ernment financial holding. As of December 1974 about 84% of its assets
consisted of either stockholdings, bonds or certificates of guarantees of
183 Government-controlled enterprises, while only 15% represented its loan
portfolio. Its main sources of funds are: the Government budget, the Central
Bank and external credit from private and public institutions. In 1974, the
Government made a US$300 million equivalent capital contribution by paying all
CORFO's outstanding long-term debts with local banks, and it also contributed
substantially to increase its level of reserves. The most relevant sources of
foreign credit are the USA and European corporations and banks, and among
international institutions--IBRD, IDB and AID. The level of long-term loans



ANNEX 4
Page 6
in arrears amounted to about 23% of the total portfolio in 1973 and 1974.
About 14% of these arrears are in the form of delinquent noncollectible
loans. However, the situation in agricultural lending is more normal, as
levels of arrears reached, respectively, 3% and 4% of the total agricul-
tural portfolio in 1973 and 1974. The income and expenditure account (Table
9) indicates that, in 1974, CORFO had produced a surplus for the first time
since 1971.  This was due mainly to an impressive reduction of administrative
costs from US$57 million in 1972 to US$18 million in 1974, and to a parallel
reduction in financial costs determined by the Government redemption of
CORFO's outstanding debts within the country.
Accounts and Auditlng
18,       CORFO's accounting is hampered by the existing organization.  The
most relevant deficiencies listed in the report of the Government Controller
General, which is CORFO's external auditor, are: (a) poor evaluation of assets
of enterprises converted to private ownership; (b) utilization of the office
of the internal auditor for operational purposes other than control of accounts
and operations; (c) insufficient information on the nature of the reserves;
and (d) unrealistic enterprise values acquired from the consolidated balance
sheet. The report contains strong recommendations for a thorough analysis of
the real value of CORFO's assets and liabilities and for an improvement of its
bookkeeping.
D. The Small Farmer Development Institute (INDAP)
General
19.       INDAP was established in 1962 under the General Law of the Agrarian
Reform as an autonomous institution of the Ministry of Agriculture to promote
the economic, social and cultural development of small farmers and fishermen
and peasant cooperatives. It now provides technical assistance and investment
and production credit to a sector of the economy traditionally excluded from
access to institutional financial resources. However, it does not deal with
land reform beneficiaries.
Organization and Management
20.       INDAP's agricultural and financial policies are set by a National
Council, presided over by the Minister of Agriculture, and comprising the
representatives of the country's main organizations involved in agricultural
investment and development. The institute's administrator is the executive
vice president, appointed by the Council. INDAP is presently organized in
four departments--planning, finance, fisheries, and administration--and it
carries out its operational activities through 13 regional offices and 101
area offices, scattered throughout the country.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
21.       INDAP is now undergoing a reorganization aimed at transforming it
into a more efficient body, with particular emphasis on improving agricultural
investment project appraisal, extension services, and administration of its
loan portfolio. This has brought about drastic reductions in personnel,
staff totals dropping from 4,429 in December 1973 to 2,532 in September 1975.
The core of professional staff is made up of agricultural engineers, veteri-
narians, and agricultural extensionists.
Lending Policies
22.       The bulk of INDAP's credit is for short-term production (Tables 10
and 11), and is mostly provided in the form of inputs and agricultural imple-
ments. The rate of interest charged is subsidized, averaging about 60% of the
current banking rate. Investment credit, which in 1974 was about 15% of the
total loan portfolio, is usually extended to small farmer cooperatives after
feasibility studies and sub-loan appraisal, specifying acceptable rates of
return for the project financed. Such credit is usually granted for livestock,
fruit and vineyard development for periods of five to 10 years, indexed to the
Consumer Price Index (IPC), and carries interest rates of 4 to 8%. The level
of portfolio arrears was reduced from about 20% of total loans in 1971 to
about 4% in 1974, but this may be the result of the recent application of a
negative interest rate on short-term lending.
Financial Structure
23.       Most of INDAP's short-term credit is financed through revolving
funds and Government budgetary allocations, which, in 1974, amounted to
about US$6 million equivalent (Table 12), or about 35% of total income.
Long-term credit is financed entirely by Government contributions and from
the proceeds of a long-term IDB loan.
Accounts and Auditing
24.       Accounting and internal auditing is poor.  Accounts are not analyzed
sufficiently to give such information as the current position and age of the
portfolio, details on short-term and long-term loan arrears, or data on number
of loans and beneficiaries' property size. Also, INDAP does not have the capa-
city to use the data it has for short- and long-term financial planning. The
external auditor's report prepared by the Government controller's office for
the fiscal year ending December 1974 points out some of these deficiencies and
expresses the view that INDAP's accounting system needs thorough revision and
that its assets and liabilities should be re-evaluated to provide a more meaning-
ful assessment of its net worth.
E. Others
25.       A number of specialized financial institutions and commercial banks
are becoming increasingly active in supplying credit to agriculture. The most



ANNEX 4
Page 8
relevant in terms of number of loans and portfolio is the Cooperative Financing
Institute (IFICOOP), established in 1965 as a development bank. It is owned
by its member cooperatives and has BECH as a minority shareholder. Its stated
objectives are to provide credit facilities and technical and managerial ser-
vices to cooperatives, and to encourage a more rational distribution of
resources between urban and rural areas. The IFICOOP has a group of 30 well-
qualified professionals, among which are 13 agriculturalists who visit the
field periodically. It has one branch office located in Osorno, which serves
as the center for IFICOOP operations in the south. All loan applications
are approved in Santiago. IFICOOP's loan portfolio of US$4 million in
September 1975 consisted of about 50% short-term production loans, financed by
operating income, local banks and the Ministry of Agriculture, and 50% develop-
ment loans financed mainly by USAID. In April 1975, USAID made a US$15 million
long-term loan to IFICOOP for rural and fisheries development.
26.       Other banks providing significant agricultural lending are the Mort-
gage Bank, which has recently opened a development finance corporation to
organize and finance agro-industrial enterprises; the Spanish Chilean Bank;
and the United Development Bank, established in January 1975 with a capital
of US$5 million equivalent by local industrialists and banks (60%) and by
foreign investors in the USA and Western Europe (40%). It finances princi-
pally small and medium enterprises, among which are agro-industries.
November 24, 1976



CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS ANDf AGRO-INDUJSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
State Bank (ECH)
Total Lendin
Until June 30
1970  l__        1971      %       1972    j         1973              197h4     %    E 975        %
Agriculture!/  55,718   29.3    94,042   30.8   110,1412   4o.0    76,166   49.0    74,801   65.4    49,768   68.1
Industry       70,388   37.1   120,700   39.5   147,720   53.4    66,570   42.8    32,948   28.8    19,148   26.2
Banking        63,706   33.6    90,957   29.7    18,178    6.6    12 690    8.2         6,573   -.8       41178    5,7
Total:     189_812  100.0  305,699  100.0   276,310  100.0   15           100.0   114 322  100-0    732094  100.0
J/  Includes livestock, fishery, forestry and poultry.
March 12, 1976



CHILE
LIVESTOGK  FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
State Bank_(BECH)
Operational and Financial Indicators
1/
1 973      197         975
OPERATIONAL INDICATORS: 
Surplus as ~o-f-Net Worth                                       4hAi         3.3        2.6
Gross Income as % of Total Assets                                 1.5       4h.0          .3
Administrative Expenses as % of Total Assets                      4.5        4.4        4.1
Administrative Expense/No. of Professional (US$)                7,710      6,662      5,520
Volume of Loan Approval/Professional Staff                        _          275        235
Year End Professional Staff                                     6,224      6,174      5,952
FINANCIAL STRUCTURE INDICATORS:
Total Debt/Net Worth                                             37.3        9.6       13.3
Long Term Debt/Net Worth                                          2.5        0.7        1.3
Overdues-/as % of Portfolio                                       0.5        0.8        3.4
Delinquent Loansl/as% of Portfolio                                0.1        -          0.1
Provision for Possible Losses as % of Loan and Equity
Portfolio                                              0.8         0.4        0.7
Interest Coverage                                                    1.0        1.1        1.2
Total Assets Excluding Contingent Liabilities (US$'000)       1,056,195    921,501    830,716
Share Capital and Reserves (US$'000)                              36,778    116,328     67,232
1/ As of September 30, 1975.                                                                             NL
2/ Over 30 days.
3/ Under legal procedures.
March 12, 1976



CHILE
LIVESTOCK. FRUITS. VNYRSADAO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
State' Sash (SEtH)
Agricultural Lending
(in US$ '000)
1972                                          1973                                          1974                             _             1975L!
No., of                                       No. of                                         No. of                                         No. of
No. of   Bene-                                No., of   Bene-                               No. of   Bene-                                 No. of   Bene-
Sub-Sectors                   Cash   12pts   Total   L          iclarfes    ash   lp.ts   Total   7oans _ciaries   Cash   Inputs   Total   Loans ficiaries   Cash   Inputs   Total   Loans ficiaries
Agricolture                          75,680  15,398  91,078  92,109  45,515    42,115  25,601  67,716 121,787  54,116    26,663  40,209  66,872  92,727  45,210                  17,555  25,264  42,819  52,710  29,877
Livestock                            13,852   3,873  17,725  15,025   7,310         6,293    1,194   7,487  12,144   5,851         6,666      308   6,974  10,527   6,586         6,244      199   6,443   8,391   5,417
Fishery and Forestry                    812       16      828      958      732        426       21     447   1,223       723        137        3      140      537      390         28        1       29      175       90
Poultry                                 687  _   94       781   1,442       829        470      46      516    _          702        797       18      815   1,043       558        474        3      477      702      398
Total:              91,031 19.381 110, 412 L09,534  54,386    49,304                76,166 136_574  61392    34,263  40,538  74,801 104_834  52,744    24,301                467  49,768  61978  35782
% of                                          % of                                           % of                                           % of
Total       Total                             Total       Total                              Total       Total                              Total       Total
Current Loans                                         104,399       94.6                             74,324       97.6                              74,292       99.3                              46,809       98.1
Overdoes                                                4,514        4.1                              1,590         2.1                                433        0.6                                 818         1.6
Delinquent Loans                                        1-499        1.3                                 252        0.3                                 76        0.1                                 141        0.3
Total:                               110,412       100.0                             76,166      100.0                              74801       lOO.0                             49,768       100.0
/L As of Septerber 30, 1975.
March 12, 1976



Table I
CHILE
LIVESTOCK. MWUITS. VINBARDS AJID AG1O-INDUSTRY CREDIT PRJECT
State Bank (BZCH)i1
Balance Sheets
'(in' U3S,m)
December 31Jue3
1973               197                 1975
ASSETS
TSt Assets
Cash                                            29,479              39,813             22,867
Banks                                          299,970             181,780             137,746
Inventory                                       17 511         86.377
Sub-totea                            l                            l                u377152169
Loans Portfolio
Current Loans                                   1,077              323,206            270,036
Loans Overdue                                    2,145               2,470               9,481
Delinquent Loans                                   3186                                    227
Sub-total                                                                       lam
Total Current Assets                                        651.967             526.73&
Fixed Assets
nvestmentt
Real Estate                                   ii,688              29,516             11,1 5
Stocks, Bonds and Others                       7,602              36,975              6,653
Zquipient and Furniture                       1 52 65              6 2,806
Total Fixed Assets                        29T4
Other Assets
Currency Revaluation                              -                   -               151,684
Interests Receivable                            11,046              37,215            139,051
Exchange Operations                            574S488             434,819             247,220
Others                                          32.224              3                  22 319
Total Other Assets                       6TT-AM
Total Assets                           1.408.260          1.228 668
Total Assets in 00  0 P51                     2M      2,275.311.112       5,538,103,700
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
30 Dajs                                      532,210             368,694            297,671
More than 30 Days                            219,816             197 190             12 4
Sub -total                               7
Due Banks
Central Bank                                  68,871              81L,558            39,907
Local Banks and Others                          ,8-                                       25
Foreign Banks                                201 337             218 068              20953
Sub-total Due Banks                      _     _               27               160.'
Other Liabilities
Currency Revaluation                            -                   -               158,091
Exhange Operations                           319,594             2Ib,990            139,411
Other Liabilities                             29 654              28151,0
Total Other Liabilities                  74914              243
Capital and Reserves                          35,233             112,606             65,548
Profit                                         1.                    7             -  I !6k
Total Liabilities                      1 128o__8260____ 7._
Total Liabilities in 000 go          548-324.499      2.275.311,112       5.538.103.,00
ue to the high inflationary trend shown by total values in esoudos, acconts
figures have been all. cnverted in Jce 1975 values, on the basis of the iacreae of
the C.P.I. values thus obtained were converted into dollars at the US dollar,
l:soudo exchange rate of June 1975; US$1 - l5 5,000.
March 12, 1976



CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
State Bank (BLCH)
Consolidated Income and Ex2Mediture Accounts
(in US$ '000)
,,,  1973       1974             1975
1st and 2nd     1st and 2nd      1st and 2nd
Semesters       Semesters        Semesters
INCOME
Interest ain Commissions                  123,676          134,790         42,532
Input Sales                                 8,049           17,665         12,205
Others                                      4,043           2    074
Total:                    135,s768        174575           62
EXPENDITURE
Administrative Costs                       47,960           40,845          16,431
Financial Costs                            67,898           60,363          17,925
Taxes                                         106               94             237
Provision for Lc3change Losses             16,504           67,878          215157
Provision for Doubtful Debts                1,755            1,673           4s,860
Net Profit                                  1,             _3722               68
Total:                   13s,768          174 575          62,294
January 21 s 1976



OFeolopmcooi CocoocTtioo (00910)
Agolooltopo 1 Lending
1970                           -             1971                                                1972                                  9913                       E1  _- 914                                                         9975-
(No.)   (o                                       (T.      (To.) ((N. (N..)                                             (No.)                    (Ne _)                                   (No.)   (No.)                                (NS      (no.)
-gti-on Wo-k.             115     119        8,098,387           _           17      87         1,039,364                15      15        2,988,4614        -        2       3       1,600,000           -           3       3       42,800,000        -          I       1       41,094,0QG
V-neyop                      6       fiI4 1,177,274               -           22   118S         2,261.843       -        112  3,421       45,201,515          -      73      73      38,744,992                      82    127       644,751,214         -         4       4      324,715,400
Fvis7)1  90       5,964,799           .          71    1,612         7.672,392                90    249       17,474 ,541         -       87     87       52,138,750           -          50      58   1,170,495,727        12,500      6       6     358,967,022             -
Beef                       178   2,130       31.338.346           -          132      821       26,879,910       -       150  2.453        38,155,269         _        1       1          120,006          _         117    117   2,296.395,544           -        29      30   3,431,617,632          152,800
Pigs -od Pooltop             4       4           330,000          -           11    3,980          855,897       -         15     78        5,231,331         -        I       1       3,204,103       27,958.57       1       1           96,748         -                 -          - _
Agoi-ltol-l M-ahi-o,    445   8,420          32.964,423           -          196    3,179       41,309.940       -        I0    158       126,837,873          -      29      79       8,410,961           -         510  1,132   2,439,927,863           -        42      45      976,143,388         138,642.40
Agoi-lool-l tMir-lI-
10   1,093        4,409,761        858,776.66    8        488        1.997,913  703.538        2       0          716,090         .        2      2        2,753,000           -          22      22       14,565,736        _-                 -          -_
RooI tltrpl 900920         80   1,112        15,887,944           -           53    1,694       14,442,329       -        54  1,584        25,063,745                1 273  4.450    205,560,205           .         105    -       2,629,547,134        -         83       -   3,228,381,592          1289121.61
Imported Po-olo             26      13       20,943,138           1,500        1         1         187,500       -        -       -             .                      -    -              -
AgpioolConNl TcarktCio-      5   1,780       36,392,O70         762,000        2         2       2,500,000   30.000        4  1.505        11,880,000      500,000        -         -              -                   I        1     397,0000.00      324,680       2      2   1,707,997,223          640,000
Dalry Plant..                4   1,539        6,795,286           -           -      -                           -
3mongoooy Lonso              -        -            -              -          131      190       14,423,672
Live-rock Rood               -     -             -                            _ -                    _           _        _                     _             _        _                                   _         259    259   1,779,574,861           .         59     59      566,369,819          10,890
T006L                      949  16,3)1      164, 21., 359     1,622,270666  644   13,239       113.570,760  (33,539      302  9,465       273,550,740      500,000  368  4,446       312,532,711       17,990.57  2,152   1,720  11,415,154,920        337.190   239    160  10,635,286,076          1,335,333.19
7l0 Eqoloa9ot  at Yooo
A-.pag. Rate of Roohonge        12. 21        13,454,4650.4                        12.21    9,301,454.54                          40        6.838,768.5n                     280        1,116,185.75                       1,250        9,132,123.86                    5,300        2,086,875.67
Noobo19  1975



ANNEX 4
Table 7
CHILE
LIVESTOCK. FRUITS. VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREIT PROJECT
Develoment Corporation (CORFO)
Long-Term Lending Loans
Grace
Item                            Years       Term    Period       Interest   Index
Irrigation Work               1965/1975       6       2            7%       I.P;C.
Vineyards                      1966/1973     10       3            7%       I.P.C.
ft                         1974           10       3            5%       I.P;C.
it                         1975           10       5            9%       I;P.C.
Fruits                        1966/1973      10       3            7%      IP.C.
it                         1974           10       3           5%        I.P.C.
It                         1975           10       5           9%        I.P.C.
Beef                          1966/1973      10       3            7%     I.P.C.& 50% I.P,C..
1974          10       3            5%        n       n
1975          10       5            9%        ft
Pigs and Poultry              1966/1974       5       2            7%       I.P.C.
Agricultural Machines          1966/1973    4/5       -         7%/10%      I.P.C.
1974           5       2            7%       I.P.C;
1975           5       -            9%       I.PoC*
Agricultural Miscellaneous    1966/1974      10       3            7%       I.P.C.
Rural Electrification         1966/1974    6/12       -         6%/15%      No Indexing
1975         6/18      2         6%/9%       IoP*C.
Beef Imports                  1966/1970       8       3            2%       I.P.C.
1971/1975      6       3            7%       I.P.C.
Agricultural Marketing         1969/1975     10       3            7%       I.P.C.
Dairy Plants                  1970           10       3            7%       I.P.C.
Emergency Loans               1971            6       1            4%       I.P,c.
Livestock Fund                1974            5       2            9%       I.P.C.
1975          10       5            9%       I.P.C.
Irrigation Pumps              1975            5       -            8%        US$
I.P.C.    Indico Precios Consumidor.
November 13, 1975.



CHILE
LIVESTOCKR  FRUITS  VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT P1RJECT
Development Corporation (CORFO)
Consolidated Balance Sheeti'/
1970                1971             1972              1973               1974
ASSETS                   Us$Mm US$$M                                    7          - S$us$ m
Cash and Banks              8.0    0.4        17.4    0.8       26.2    1.6       16.9    1.0       31.8    1.3
Long-term loans           259.3   14.1       356.5   16.9      223.8   13.7      167.1    9.4      370.8   15.0
Affiliates Stocks       1,305.7   70.8    1,415.3   66.9       969.2   59.3   1,096.3   61.9   1,446.8   58.1
Bonds                      87.8    4.7        89.1    4.2       86.5    5.3       86.4    4.9       3065    1.2
Guarantees                 99.4    5.4       147.0    6.9      127.14    7.8     146.3    8.3      240.2    9.6
Other Inventories           5.0    0.3        1965   0.9        59.4    3.7       85.7    4.8       44.9    1.8
Fixed Assets               74.7    4.0        72.8    3.4      140.0    8.6      169.7    9.6      321.6   12.9
Project Studies             5.6    0.3         0.2    -          0.2     -         1.8    0.1        2.5    0.1
Total        1,84515    100    2,117.8    100   1,632.7    100   1,770.2    100   2,489.1    100
LIABILITIES
Short Term                113.6    6.2       261.8   12.4      325.2   19.9      330.5   18.7      184.4    765
Long Term                 395.6   21 .4      435.0   20.5      503.0   30.8      537.6   30.4      682.6   26.6
Capital                   507.6   27.5       781.8   36.9      819.7   50.2      799.4   45.2   1,103.4   44.3
Reserves                  818.9   44.4       612.8   28.9      184.2   11.3      188.5   10.6      508.4   21,2
Net Earnings or Losses      9.8    0.5        26,4    1.3  ( 199.4) (12.2)   ( 85.8) ( 4.9)         10.3    0.4
Total        1.,845.5    100    2,117.8    100   1,632.7    100   1,770.2    100   2,1489.1    100
1/  The conversion in US$ was done by using the average rate of
exchange Eo -US$ of the years under examination.                                                                 CD
Mareh 15, 1976



CHILE
LIVESTOCK FRUI,S VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Development.Corpo2ration (CORFO),
Income and kp.zaJditure Aocounts
INCOME                                 1970          1971           1972          1973           94.
Government Contribution                32.4           24.6           3.1            1.5         51.7
Affiliated Companies                   42.3          47.5           40.6           24.6         13.0
Interest and Commissions               26.4          22.1           19.3            8.3         18X1
Other Income                           23e6           4.8            3.6            3.1         58.O
Losses                                  -              -           199.4           85.8           -
Total:                124.7           99.0          266.0         123.3         140,8
Development Costs                      38e1           19.0          91,2           30,7          4.7
Financial Costs                        20.7           21.3         100.3           43.1         91.0
Administrative Costs                   22,2           26.5          56.6           24.0          18.4
Depreciation and Provisions            12,6            5.8          14.5           2L.0           5.7
Other Expenses                         21 .3           -             3.4            1.5          10.7
Profit                                  9.8          26.4            -              -            10.3
Totals                124,7           99.0          266.0         123e3         140,8
November 14, 1975



CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Loan Portfolio
Year             Total            Short Term          LongTerm         Arrears             Percentage
June 1971        26,194,025       11,896,790          14,297,235       5,126,171              19.5
June 1972        38,105,077       16,986,205          21,118,872       6,778,893              17.8
June 1973        16,690,482        6,824,569           9,865,913       1,977,822              11.8
December 1973     8,398,154        5,472,920           2,925,234         353,562               4.2
December 1974     9,645,083        8,351,687           1,293,296         4215490               4-.4
1r
November 17, 1975



Table 11
CHILE
LIVESTOCK, PRUITS. VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Small Farmer Development Institute (INI)AP)
Balance Sheets
(US$ '000)
-     (at June 30)-----
19723                 1974
ASSETS
Cash                                       28           35            5
Deposits in Banks                       4,50         3,070          628
Sub-total:                      4588         3,105
Operational Loans
Up to 1 year                            n.a.      20,650       12,130
Above 1 year                            n.a.       2,420        3.14
Sub-total:                     314,1I0      23,070       16,0
Investments
Real Estate and Awiliary              4,476        5,900        2,398
Machinery and Equipment               2,O100       3,200        2,258
Agricultural Inputs Inventories       8 058       17,?900       9 614
Sub-total:                                  27,000       142270
Accounts in Transit, Other             -3,948        8.220        3.192
Total:                         54,250       61,395
LIABILITIES
Short-term Obligations                 31,260       37,870        8,097
Long-term Obligations                   6,000        9,690        7,462
Other Short-term                        3.600        1 200        7.754
Sub-total:                     1;0,660                  Z2,313
Capital                                12,990       12,075       10,176
Reserves and Others                       400          560          650
Sub-total:                     13,390       12,35        10,526
Total:                         54,250       61, 395      34 139
January 21t,976



ANNEX 4
Table 12
CHL
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGOR-3INDUSTRY CREDIT PRO)JECT
Small Farmer Development Institute (INDAP)
Income and E~tpenditure Accotnts
(US$ ?0)
(------ (at June 30) ----
1972          1973
INCOME AND TRANSFMS
Interest Income                     17,200        12,900          9,930
Services, Sales                      1,l40          1,240           950
Government Contributions            15.1 80        15, 800          88
Total: s,520                      29,940        16.76
EXPDITURE
Cost of Loan Funds                  15,250        10,000          7,845
Administration                      18,270         19.940         8,920
Total:             33.520         22a9I2         16A765
January 21,, 1976



CHILE
LIVESTOCv. FRUITS VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Central Sank - Project Cash Flow
(US$ 'DII)
Yesr:  .       ,         , ,,.....    1  2     3         4          5          6          7          S          9         10         11         12         13         14         15         16         17         18        TOTAl,
INFLOW
IBRD Loan...                         1,300      8,800     9,000      4,900      1,000                                                                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                        25,000
Govere,sent Fpada                   73000       9,000      9,000          -          -                                                                                                                                                    25,000
Debt Service (interest plus
prErOipalE):
Dairy/Beef                          46       145        250        263        263        415        743      1,091     1,132      1,132      1,132         933       507          54          -          _          _          _        8,106
Seef/Sheep                          20        67        120        133        133        188        318        465        502       502        502        502        427         251         S0          -                              4 ]180
Fruits                             146       466        912      1,066      1,066      1,437      2,101      2,722      3,138     3,138      3,138      3,138       3,138      3,138      3.138      2,647      1,614        432       36.575
,Xgra-il,clstrrie                   48        240        540        034     1.290      2,003      2_431      2.431      2,         2,43'L    2_431        .269      1            68       __1-                       -          - _21_60_
Sob-total,               260        918      1 822     2, 296     2 752      4.043      5 0_ 3     6709       7,203       ,3        703          842      5.693      4._91      3.1_8      2647                    432       70 469
Total,                 9 .560    jI=,7j ~1              L96       -12        4.043      5.593      6,709                            7.200      63          .         4,5        3,188II    2 647                   43U2.6
7 2039    6 3__ 7203            61 84225693           _  _       _120,69
ODTFIOW
Li-estock:
Dairy/Berf                       1,028     2,196      2,336        280          _          _          _          _             _       _          _                                                                                     5,840
Deef/Sheep                        444       E3        1            296         _          _           _         _           _         _         _           _         _                                                                 2_960
Sub-total,             L,479      3,g2.     3 520        _76           -          -          -          -         -          -                           -          -                     - _.800
Fruits:
Gruit                              996      2,296     2,400         409          _                                                                                                                                                      6,001
Apples                             486      1,766     2,560      1,587           _          _          _          _         _          _          _          _          _                                                               6,399
Vi-ny-rds                        1,997     4.556        _        1_26          _          _          _          _                                                                                                                      12.798
Yak-total:             3,479       ,518    10,079         122                                                                                                                                                                2519
R6r0-15t4otoisot                     1,066      4,266      6,665      3,999                     -                                                                                                                                           15,996
IB0D L-oan ReP.Y-0t
Intera-L                         166        899      1,700      2,073      2,002      1,836      1,669      1,502     1,335      1,168      1,001         835        668        501        333        167          -                  17,55S
Frlscipal                            _      -                    707       1,792      1,87      5 1,825     1,875           5     1,875                     5      l175       1875       1,875      1875       1_8 7 5                241999
5,l,-tual:               208        S999     1L   2, _78         _3,74       3,711      3_544    3_,37           _       _1°43      2_876      _,710      2t543      2,376                 2_22,                              42 854
Total                ~                     71,961.    11,477       3         U94          Wt        U1-77     1O 1         3        2D47   2 ,876'O710    2-143      2,376       _2,8042                 875       __        97,41)
(ask Oulanro                          2,427      1,803    (2,142)   (3,281)        (42)        332      2,049      3,3321    3,993      4,160      4,327      4,232       3,150      1,675        042        605       (261)
Ca.po.ndd c             Bltulative OulOtco  2,427  4,473    2,778       (225)      (289)        14      2,064      5,602    10,115    1S,330    71,5l0    27,541    33,445          38,464    43,202    48,127       82.698
N0-TE:
I  IBRD -to of interest 8.9% ISaptamb-r 20, 1976)
2,  C-sh balats c- poundod at 107.
Ontober 30, 1976



ANNEX 6
CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Disbursement Estimate
IBRD
Fiscal Year                Disbursement                Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter               during Quarter                at the End of Quarter
1977
/1
4th                          200-                                 200
1978
lst                          500                                  700
2nd                          600                                1,300
3rd                        1,300                                2,600
4th                        2,500                                5,100
1979
lst                        2,500                                7,600
2nd                        2,500                               10,100
3rd                        2,500                               12,600
4th                        2,500                               15,100
1980
Ist                        2,000                               17,100
2nd                        2,000                               19,100
3rd                        1,800                               20,900
4th                        1,500                               22,400
1981
1st                        1,000                               23,400
2nd                          600                               24,000
3rd                          500                               24,500
4th                          500                               25,000
/1 Estimated date of Loan signing: January 1977.
Estimated date of Loan effectiveness: April 1977.
November 24, 1976



ANNEX 7
CHILE
Livestock, Fruits, Vineyards and Agro-Industry Credit Project
Medium and Long-term                                                           Foreign
Investment Items                          Local       Foreign       Total      Exchange
under the Project                             ----   US$'000----                 %
On-Farm Investment
Fertilizer and chemicals
(orchards & vineyards)                  319.1       1,276.6    1,595.7        80
Pasture improvement                     941.2       1,411.9    2,353.1         60
Planting Materials (fruits
& vines)                              3,568.1                   3,568.1
Fencing & Trellising                  2,995.8       1,409.8    4,405.6         32
Sheep and Cattle Yards                   89.9          59.9       149.9        40
Machinery                             3,674.5       4,491.1    8,165.6         55
Other equipment                         497.0         745.5    1,242.5         60
Water Supply                            346.4         186.5       533.0        35
Livestock                             1,716.4         302.9    2,019.3         15
Freight and Mechanization             3,767.5       4,081.4    7,848.9         52
Labor                                 2,543.4                   3,146.0       _
Total Base Line                      20,459.3      13,983.5   34,425.0         41
Price contingencies
(19% of base line)                    4,799.1       3,275.9    8,075.0        41
Sub-total
25,258.4     17,259.4   42,500.0         41
Agro-Industries
Base line cost of civil
works and machinery and
equipment                            9,839.0       6,290.0   16,129.0         39
Physical contingency (5%)               492.0         314.0       806.0        39
Price Contingency (19%)               1,869.0       1,196.0    3,065
12,200.0      7,800.0   20,000.0         39
Grand Total                            37,458.0      25,059.0   62,500.0         40
March 16, 1976



CHIILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUJSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Model 1:  Dairy/Beef Fare  (Individual) - El Basic Ha-l
Nierd Deveopntroetn
------------------------------End of Yer -----------------------------
Pre-
Deve_lopment    1             2             3            4             5             6             7             8             9          10-20
Nerd Composition
Cows and Replacements                      10            29           28            29            33            36           39            43            44            44            44
Calves Weaned/2                             6            13           20            19            22            25           27            30            32            32            32
Heifers (1-2 years)                         2             2             6           10            10            11           12            14            15            16            16
Bulls                                                      1           1            1             1             1             1            1             1             1             1
Total Animals:                    18           45            55            59            66           73            79            88            92            93            93
Animal Units/3                             12            32            35           40            44            48           52            58            60            61            61
Milking Cows                                6            15           22            21            24            26           29            31            34            35            35
lertality
Cows and Replacements                       1             2             1             1            2             2             2             2            3             3             3
Purchases
In-calf Heifers (2-3 years)                 -            10
Heifers (1-2 years)                         -            10
Rolls                                      _              1            _             _             1             _            _             _                              
Total:                             -            21             -            -             1
Cattle Sales
Cull Cows                                   1             2             2             4            4             5             6             6             6             7             7
In-calf Heifers (2-3 years)                 -             -             -             -            -             -             -             -             4             5             6
Steers (1-2 years)                          3             3             7            10            9            11            13            13            15            16            16
Bulls                                       -             -             -             -            I            _              -             -             I            _              -
Total:                             4             5             9           14            14            16            19           19            26            28            29
Milk Sales (liters)                       7.800        24 000       44,000        44,100        52,800        65,00       0               77,50        85,00  0      87,50         87,500
Technical Coefficients
Calving Rate (%)                           70            75            75            75           80            80            80            80            80            80            80
Calf Mortality (T)                         14            13            10            10           10            10             8             8             8             8             a
Adult Mortality(%)                          5             5             4             4            4             4             4             4             4             4             4
Cow and Replacement Cul1ing (%)            10            10            10            14           14            15            17            17            17            17            17
Milk Sold (liters/cow)                  1,300         1,600        2,000         2,100         2,200         2,500        2,500         2,500         2,500         2,500         2,500
Age at First Calving (months)              36+           36+           36+           36+          36+           36+           36+           36+           36+           36+           36+
/1  Equivalent to 55 physical ha in the Central Valley, Osorno Region.                                                                                                                                   {K
/2 After calf mortality is taken into account.
73  Animal Unit (AU); animal over one year.
October 31, 1975



CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Model II: Beet/Sheep Farm (Cooperative or Individual) - 80 Basic Ha-i
Herd Develo,oment Projecliun
-------------------------------------------------------- End of Year ---
Pre-
Development        1              2              3             4              5              6              7              8             9-20
Herd Composition
Cows and Replacements                       70             90            90             95            102            114            120            120            120            120
Calves Weaned                               45             53            53             63             66             71             80             84             84             84
Heifers (12-24 months)                      21             21             25            25             30             32             34             38             40             40
Steers (12-24 months)                       22             22             26            26             31             32             35             38             40             40
Bulls                                        2              3              3              3             3              3              4              4            _4               4
Total Animals:                    160            189           197            212            232            252            273            284            288            288
Animal Units/2                             115            136            144            149           166            181            193            200            204            204
Mortality
Cows                                         4              5              5              4             4              4              5              5               5             5
Heifers (12-24 months)                       I              1              1              1              1             1              1              2               2             2
Steers (12-24 months)                        1              1              1              1              1             1              1              2               2              2
Heifers (24-36 months)                       I              1              1              1              1             1              1              1               1
Steers (24-36 months)                        I              I              I              I              I             I              I               I              1              1
Total:                              8              9              9              8             8              8              9             11             11             11
Purchases
In-calf Heifers                              -             20              -              -              -              -             -               -              -              -
Bulls                                        1              2              1              1              1              1             2               1              1              1
Total:                              1             22              1              1              1             1              2              1               1
Sales
Cull Cows                                    7              9              9              9             10             10             11             12             12             12
Heifers (24-36 months)                       9              6              6              6              3              3              9             16             20             22
Steers (24-36 months)                       21             21             21             25             25             30             31             34             37             39
Bulls                                        1              1              1              1              1              1              1              1              1              1
Total:                             38             37             37             41             39            44              52            63              70             74
Technical Coefficients
Weantig Rate (%)                            65             65             65             70             70             70             70             70             70             70
Adult Mortality(%)                           5              5              5              4              4              4              4              4              4              4
Cow culling Cl)                             10             10             10             10             10             10             10             10             10             10
Bull Culling (%)                            50             33             33             33             33             33             33             25             25             25
I  Equivalent to 700 physical ha in the Costal Belt-Osorno Region.
i   Animal Unit (AU); animal over one year.
November 2, 1975



CHTILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Model II:  Beef/Sheep Farm (Cooperative or Individual) - 80 Basic HaLi
Flock Development Projection
---------------------------------------------------------- End of Year
Pre-
Development           1                2_3                              4                5                6                7               8-20
Flock Composition
Ewes and Replacements                     600              748              774              794              845             905              986            1,000            1,000
Ewe Lambs                                 166              235              235              263              285             323              285               263              263
Rams                                        30              40               40               40               42               45               49               50               50
Total Animals:                   796            1_023            1 049           1,097 1,172                       1,273            1,320            1 313            1,313
Animal Units/2                             120             150              155              159              167              181              197              200              200
Lambs Weaned                              480              640              636              696              754              845              905              986            1,000
MoYtality
gwes                                        36              48               45               46               40               42               45               49               50
gwe Lambs (4-12 months)                     11              15               15               17               is               17               15               14               14
Ewe Replacements (12-24 months)             10              10               14               14               13               14               16               14               13
Rams                                         2               2                2                2                2                2                2                3                3
Total:                            59               75               76               79               70               75               78               80               80
Purchases
Ewes (2-tooth)                               -             200                -                -                -                -                -
Rams                                         8              18               10               10               12               13               15               14               13
Total:                              8             218               10               10               12               13               15               14               13
Sales
Cull Ewes                                  120             160              150              155              159              169              181              208              200
Bams                                         6               6                8                8                8                8                9               10               10
Lambs                                     303              390              386              416              454              505              605              709              723
Total:                           429              556              544              579              621              682              795              927              933
Wool (kg)                               1,990            2,558            3,147            3,291            3,516            3,946            4,092            4,070            4,070
Technical Coefficients
Lambs Weaned (%)                            80              80               85               90               95              100              100              100              100
Ewe and Ram Mortality (%)                    6                6                6               6                5                5                5                 5                5
Ewe Lamb  Mortality (4-12 months) (%)    6                   6                6                6                5                5                5                5                5
Ewes Culled (%)                             20              20               20               20               20               20               20               20               20
Rams Culled (%)                             20              20               20               20               20               20               20               20                20
Rams (h of Breeding Ewes)                    5                5                5                5               5                5                5                 5
Wool/Animal (kg)                             2.5              2.5              3.0             3.0              3.0              3.1              3.1               3.1              3.1
/I   Equivalent to 700 physical ha in the Costal Belt-osorno Region.                                                                                                                                   w    m,
7T  Animal Unit (AU); five ewes.
November 2, 1975



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Table 4
CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDBSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Yield, Cost and Price Assumptions
Cost Assumptions: On-farm Investment (Models I and II)
US$
Pasture Establishment per Ha (Years 1-2)
Cultivation - plough, harrow seed and roll                               50
Fertilizer - 200 kg ammonium phosphate (18% N, 46% P205),
100 kg potash (48% K20)                                   60
Seeds - 16 kg ryegrass, 4 kg clover                                      40
Total:                       150
Fencing per 1,000 m
Wire                                                                    223
Staples                                                                  21
Posts                                                                    90
Labor (33 days @ US$2/day)                                               66
Transport of Material and Miscellaneous                                  20
Total:                       420
Water Supply (Dairy Farm)
Australian Tank - 25 m                                                  165
Four Concrete Troughs - 1,300 1. capacity                                66
Plastic Piping - 400 m x 1" diam                                        168
Plastic Piping - 800 m x 3/4" diam                                      208
Water Pump                                                              686
Total:                     1,293
Water Supply (Sheep Farm)
Six Concrete Troughs (US$66 each)                                      396
200 m 1" Plastic Piping                                                 84
Total:                       480
Milking Shed and Equipment
Milking Shed - four units                                             1,400
Milking Machine and Equipment                                        1,600
Total:                     3,000
Machinery
Forage Harvester                                                     2,200
Fertilizer Spreader                                                    400
Tractor Trailer                                                         620
Total:                     3,220
Sheep Yards - 980 m2 (6 Pons)                                             400
Cattle Yards - 1,000 m2 (5 Pons)                                          800
Wool Press                                                                500
Livestock
In-calf Dairy Heifer (3 years)                                          200
Breeding Heifer (dairy)(2 years)                                        120
Dairy Bull (1-2 years)                                                  300
In-calf Beef Heifer (3 years)                                           130
Beef Bull (1-2 years)                                                   200
2-tooth Ewe (1-2 years)                                                  11
Ram                                                                      28
March 10, 1976



CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Yield, Cost and Price Assumptions
Operating Cost Assumptions (Models I and II)
Model I                                                        Model II
Labor                                 ½ labor unit pre-development and one labor unit                Four men, costing US$686/man/year
Years 1-20, costing US$686/man/year
Pasture - Maintenance                 Plough, cultivate and re-seed, US$155/ha                       Plough, cultivate and re-seed, US$155/ha
- Fertilizer                 200 kg ammonium phosphate (187. N, 46% P205) per               150 kg ammonium phosphate (18% N, 467, P205) per
ha on improved pasture, US$42/ha/year                          ha on improved pasture, US$32/ha/year
Animal Health                         Vaccines, drugs, medicines, minerals and veterinary             Vaccines, drugs, medicines and veterinary
assistance, US$10/Animal Unit/year                             assistance, US$7/Animal Unit/year
Artificial Insemination               US$7/lactating cow/year
Shearing                                                                                             US$0.10/sheep
Machinery Hire and Freight            US$20/Animal Unit/year                                          US$10/Animal Unit/year
Repairs and Maintenance               10% of investment costs, excluding pasture                      5% of investment costs, excluding pasture
improvement and breeding stock/year -                          improvement and breeding stock/year -
Years 2-20                                                     Years 2-20
November 4, 1975



CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Yield, Cost and Price Assumptions
Price Assumptions (Models I and II)
Model I                                                  Model II
Purchases
In-calf Heifers                         US$200/head                                            US$130/head
Breeding Heifers                        US$120/head
Bull                                    US$300/head                                            US$200/head
2-tooth Ewes                                                                                   US$11/head
Rams                                                                                           US$28/head
Sales
Milk                                    US$0.90/liter
Wool                                                                                           US$1.00/kg
Cull Cows                               US$150/head - 500 kg liveweight                        Pre-development and Year 1 - US$140/head - 470 kg
liveweight/head; Years 2-20 - US$150/head -
500 kg liveweight/head
Cull Bulls                              US$170/head                                            Pre-development and Year 1 - US$140/head;
Years 2-20 - US$150/head
In-calf Heifers                         US$200/head
Heifers (24 to 36 months)                                                                      Pre-development and Year I - US$90/head;
Years 2-20 - US$120/head
Steers (24 to 36 months)                US$90/head (300 kg) - sold in Spring                    Pre-development and Year 1, sold in Autumn -
US$140/head (400 kg/head); Years 2-20, sold in
Autumn - US$175/head (500 kg/head)
Cull Ewes                                                                                       Pre-development and Year 1 - US$7/head (45 kg/head);
Years 2-20 - US$9/head (50 kg/head)
Cull Rams                                                                                       Pre-development and Year I - US$8/head (52 kg/head);
Years 2-20 - US$9/head (55 kg/head)
Lambs                                                                                           Pre-development and Year 1 - US$7/head (28 kg/head);
Years 2-20 - US$9/head (33 kg/head)
November 4, 1975                                                                                                                                                  a,



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Table 7
CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Model III:  Table Grapes - Peaches/Nectarines -- Irrigated North Central Valley:  5 ha Enterprise
Costs per Hectare and Assumptions
Before     ------                                           Year --------------------
Development   1            2           3          4           5           6          7          8-19       20
INVESTMENT COSTS (US$/ha)
Capital Items
FenceaL!                                      _         28
Machinerv2/                                   _        656
Trellis (grape)3/                             -        469           -
Orchard Establishment
Planting material/                            -        425         42           -           -           -
Fertilizers5/                                 -         60         55           -           -           -          -           -          -           -
Chemicals.6                                   -         16          36          -           -           -          -           -          -           -
Freight7/                                     -        248          21          -           -           -          -           -           -          -
Mechanization8/                               -        385        267           -           -           -          -           -          -           -
Labor9/                                       -        245        105           -           -           -          -           -          -           -
OPERATIONAL COSTS (US$/ha)
Planting material                            16          -           -          8           8           8          8           8          8           8
Fertilizers                                109           -           -         92         134        165         196        196         196         196
Chemicals                                     9          -           -         79          94        106         120         134        134         134
Freight                                     17           -           -         27          36         42          49         51          51          51
Mechanization                               152          -           -        344         519        519         549         587        587         587
Labor                                       34           -           -        126         208        242         251        261         261         261
Miscellaneous-LO/                             5          -           -           -          -           -          -           -           -          -
Ta x11/                                      12         24          36         48          60         72          84          96         96          96
ASSUMPTIONS
Orchard: Area (ha)
Annual crops                                     5           0          0           0          0           0           0          0           0           0
Table grapes                                     0           2          2           2          2           2-          2          2           2           2
Peaches/nectarines                               0           3          3           3          3           3          3           3           3          3
Orchards: Yields (kg/ha)
Table grapes                                    -            -          -      1,500       4,000      8,000      12,000      16,000     18,000      18,000
Peaches/nectarines                              -            -          -      2,000       4,500      8,500      12,500      15,000     16,000      16,000
Fruit: Price (US$/kg)
Table grapes                                    -            -          -           0.18       0.18        0.18        0.18       0.18        0.18       0.18
Peaches/nectarines                              -            -          -           0.21       0.21        0.21       0.21        0.21        0.21       0.21
Trees/vines: Salvage value                        -            -          -           -           -          -           -           -          -      1,979
1/  Lightweight fence of treated wooden posts and strand wire.
2/  Tractor 45 hp, plow, disc harrow, sprayer, sulfur applicator (grapes), trailer, pruning and harvesting equipment: US$19,685 sufficient
to work 30 ha.
3/  Parronal trellis of treated wooden post, strand wire and overhead wire grid construction.
4/  Planting density grapes 1,650 vines/ha, peaches/nectarines 331 trees/ha available from local nurseries,
5/  Superphosphate (triple) imported.  Potassium  nitrate of local manufacture.  All fertilizer prices include a 20% sales tax.
6/  Sulphur, miticides and insecticides all imported.
7/  Freight charged on all materials at 15%.
8/  Basic daily rate of US$43.32 for tractors, US$18.18 for implements.
9/  Basic salary US$1.12/day plus benefits of US$1.24, giving daily wage of US$2.36.
10/  These charges apply only to annual crops.
11/  12% on land valued at US$100/ha before development increasing to US$800/ha at full development.
March 10, 1476



CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Model IV: Apples/Almonds -- Irrigated Central Valley: 7 ha Enterprise
Costs per Hectare and Assumptions
Before     ------                                                        Year ---------
Development   1            2           3          4           5          6           7          8           9         10          11-19       Z(
INVESTMENT COSTS (US$/ha)
Capital Items
Machinery]/                                  -        715         387           -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -           -          _
orchard Establishment
Planting material                            -        412         303           -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -           -          -
Fertilizers3/                                 -         41         46           -           -          -           -          -           -           _-                     - 
Chemicals4/                                   -         17         38           -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -           -
Freight!/                                     -        178        116           -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -           -          -
Mechanization_6/                              -        233        200           -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -           -          -
Labor7/                                       -        154        123           -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -           -          -
OPERATIONAL COSTS (US$/ha)                    (7 ha)     (5.8 ha) (3.9 ha)  (10.2 ha) (8.6 ha)  (7.0 ha)
Plantlng matefial                           16          16         16          27         10           9           9          9           9          9           9           9          9
Fertilizers                                109         109        109          76         96         136        186         236        250         250         250        250         250
Chemicals                                    9           9          9          54         85         122        147         173        198         223         247        257         257
Freight                                     17          17         17          22         28          40         54          65         72          75          79         83          83
Mechanization                              152         152        152         167        193         224        297         325        340         393         422        422         422
Labor                                       34          34         34          72         91         127         151        181        212         241         258        263         263
Tree supports8/                               -          -           -          -          -           -          22         15          22         15          22         15          15
Miscellaneous7/                              5           5           5          2           1          -           -          -           -          -           -           -           -
Tax.10/                                     12          17         29          28         43          65          77         89          96         96          96         96          96
ASSUMPTIONS
Orchard: Area (ha)
Annual crops                                     7.0        5.8         3.9         3.2        1.6         0          0           0          0           0           0          0           0
Apples                                           0           3          5           5          5           5          5           5          5           5           5          5           5
Almonds                                          0           0          2           2          2           2          2           2           2          2           2          2           2
Orchard: Yields (kg/ha)
Apples                                           -           -          -           -        500      6,000      10,000     15,000      20,000      25,000     30,000      30,000    30,000
Almonds (shelled)                                -           -          -           -          -         100        200         400        600         800         B00        800         800
Fruit/Nut: Price (US$/kg)
Apples                                           -           -          -           -          0.11        0.11       0.11        0.11        0.11       0.11        0.11        0.11       0.11
Almonds (shelled)                                -           -          -           -          -           4.00       4.00        4.00        4.00       4.00        4.00       4.00        4.00
Trees: Salvage Value                                     -           -          -           -                -           -          -           -           -          -           -      1,878
1/  Tractor 45 hp, plow, disc harrow, sprayer, trailer, elevator (apples), pruning and harvesting equipment: US$21,451 sufficient to work 30 ha.
2/  Planting density apples 312 trees/ha, almonds 357 trees/ha available from local nurseries.
3/ Superphosphate (triple) imported. Potassium nitrate of local manufacture. All fertilizer prices include a 20% sales tax.
4/ Fungicides, miticides and insecticides all imported.
5/ Freight charged on all materials at 15%.
6/ Basic daily rate of US$43.32 for tractors, US$18.18 for implements.
7/  Basic salary of US$1.12/day plus benefits of US$1.24, giving daily wage of US$2.36.
8/  Treated wooden posts to prevent trunks splitting and breakage of overladen branches.
9/  These charges apply only to annual crops.
10/  12% on land valued at US$100/ha before development increasing to US$800/ha at full development.
March 10, 1976



ANNEX 8
Appendix I
Table 9
CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Model V: Vineyard -- Irrigated Central Valley: lp ha Enterprise
Costs per Hectare and Assumptions
Before     ----_----____----------------------------- Year --------------------------------------
Development   1            2           3          4           5          6          7          8-19       20
INVESTMENT COSTS (US$/ha)
Capital Ite%ns
Fences-i                                     -         50-                     ------ 
2!                      -        68~~         ~~        ~     ~ ~         ~~0  -  -  -  -   -           -          -           -
Machine                                               680
Trellis-                                     -        370          97
Orchard,Establishment
Vines--                                               188          28          -
Fertile 5/                                   -         65          67          -           -
Chemicals                                                    --                      - 2  7
Freight7                                              207          34          -           -
Mechanzationo8                               -        403         302           -          -
Labor9                                       -        197          56          -           -          -           -          -           -          -
OPERATIONAL COSTS (us$/ha)                               (4 ha)     (4 ha)
Ir~e-M-s                                     -           -          -          3           2          2           2          2           2          2
Vines                                        3          3           3          3           3          3           3          3           3          3
Fertilizers                                 75         75          75        1d1        101         101        101         101        101         101
Chemicals                                   39         39          39         78          78         78         78          78          78         78
Freight                                     18         18          18         60         24          24         24          24          24         24
Mechanization                              380        380         380        574         638        638         638        638         638        638
Labor                                      130        130         130        164         211        211         211        211         211        211
TaaAPJ                                      12         29          41         53         65          77         89          96          96         96
ASSUMPTIONS
Vineyard: Area (ha)
Existing                                       10           0          0           0          0           0          0           0          0           0
Improved                                        0           4          4          4           4          4           4          4           4          4
New                                             0           6          6           6          6           6          6           6          6           6
Vineyard: Yields (kg/ha)
Existing                                    5,000           -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -
Improved                                        -      7,000       8,500     10,000     12,000      12,000     12,000      12,000     12,000      12,000
New                                              -          -          -      1,500       4,000      7,500      11,000     13,000      15,000     15,000
Grape: Price (US$/kg)                              0.16       0.16        0.16       0.16       0.16        0.16       0.16        0.16       0.16        0.16
Vines: Salvage Value                               -          -           -          -           -          -          -           -          -      1,055
1/ Light weight fence of treated wooden posts and strand wire.
21  Tractor 45 hp, plow, disc harrow, sprayer, sulfur applicator, trailer, pruning  and harvesting equipment: US$20,386 sufficiesat to
work 30 ha.
3/  Cordon trellis of treated wooden post and strand wire construction.
4/ Planting density 2,000 vines/ha available from local nurseries.
5/  Superphosphate (triple), and sulphate of potash imported.  Potassium and sodium nitrate of local manufacture.  All fertilier prices
include a 20% sales tag.
6/ Sulfur, miticides and insecticides, all imported.
7/ Freight charged on all materials at 15%.
8/ Basic daily rate of US$43.32 for tractors, US$18.18 for implements.
i/  Basic salary US$1.12/day plus benefits of US$1.24, giving daily wage at US$2.36.
10/  12% on land valued at US$100/ha before development increasing to US$800/ha at full development.
March 10, 1976



CHILE
LIVESTOCK. FRUITS. VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Yield, Cost and Price Assumptions
Agro-Industries (Models VI, VII and VIII)
(US$)
Fruit Cold Store and
Milk Processing Plant                      Packing Plant                              W i n e r v
Yield or No. of                         Yield or No. of                            Yield or No. of
Units at full       Cost or Price       Units at full       Cost or Price         Units at full        Cost or Price
Development            per Unit         Development            per Unit            Development            per Unit
Volume
Total raw milk processed, million lts.                     18                  --                   --                   --                    --                   --
Total fruit (apples) packed, boxes 20 kg/ea.               --                  --                250,000                 --                    --                   --
Total wine produced, million lts.                          --                  --                   --                   --              Avg. 72% yield             --
Sales
Pasteurized milk in bottles (3% butter fat)                94%           0.16/lt at plant           --                   --                    -                    -_
Butter                                                5 kg/1,000 lt       1.80/kg at plant          --                    --                    --                  __
Yoghurt and ice cream                                       5%           0.50/kg at plant           --                   --                    --                   __
Packed fruit for export mkt.                               --                  --                   30%           7.-/box FOB port              --                  --
Packed fruit for local mkt.                                --                  --                   65%         6.-/box at wholesaler           --                  --
Crated reject fruit for local mkt.                         --                  --                    5%        2.-/crate dt wholesaler          --                   --
Wine in bottles for export mkt.                             --                 --                   --                    --                    20%       1.10/lt at wholesaler
Wine in bottles for local mkt.                             --                  --                   --                    --                    20%       0.50/lt at wholesaler
Wine in demijohns for local mkt.                           --                  --                   --                    --                    30%       0.40/lt at wholesaler
Wine in bulk                                                --                 --                   --                    --                    30%       0.35/it at winery
Operating Costs
Raw milk purchases                                  3.5% butterfat        0.09/lt at farm           --                    --                    --                   --
Raw fruit purchases                                         --                 --                1% waste          240.-/box at farm            --                   --
Raw grape purchases                                         --                 --                   --                    --             Avg. 72% yield    0.16/kg at farm
Direct labor: skilled persons                          40 x 12 mo.           220/mo.            20 x 12 mo.            180/mo.              10 x 12 mo.            180/mo.
unskilled persons                       50 x 12 mo.           160/mo.           80 x  6 mo.            120/mo.              25 x  3 mo.             120/mo.
Purchased power                                     80 KWh/l,000 It.        0.03 KWH           2.5 KWH/box           0.03/KWH           150 KWH/l,000 It.         0.03/KWH
Fuel, chemicals                                     80 kg F.O./1,000 It  0.12/kg F.O.               --                    --                    --                   --
Packing, misc. miterials, bottles                       8% breakage        0.11/bottle              --                    --                    --                   --
cups                          6/lt               0.02/cup               --                    --                    --                   --
Cartons                         --                 --                20 kg/ea.          1.10/carton                 --                   --
Crates                          --                 --                20 kg/ea           0.55/crate                  --                   --
Bottle                          --                 __                   __                                 0.7 It 80%/reuse          0.11/bottle
Demijohns                       --                 --                   --                    --           5 lt. 90% reuse          0.33/demijohn
Freight of raw material                              (Radiu  100 km         0.015/lt          Radius 300 km          0.30/box            Radius 50 km             7.-/ton
Distribution and marketing cost                        Rdu10km              015iRaus30m                              0./bxRadius 300 kmi                          0.03/It
Taxes:  IVA                                   20% excepting fluid milk                              --                    --              Except bulk               20%
ILA                                                --                  --                   --                   --               Except bulk              20%
Maintenance (labor + 100% for materials)          8 persons x 12 mo.        250/mo.        8 persons x 12 mo.         200/mo.         4 persons x 12 mo.          200/mo.
Administration expenses                                     --             24,000/yr.               --               18,000/yr                  --             14,400/yr.
Technical, administrative and supervisory
personnel       12 persons x 12 mo.       400/mo.        10 persons x 12 mo.        350/mo.        6 persons x 12  mo,          350/yr
Management                                         3 persons x 12 mo.       800/mo.        2 persons x 12 mo.         700/mo.        2 persons x 12  mo.          700/yr
Total direct employment generated/plant                 113 persons                             120 persons                               47 persons
November 10, 1975                                                                                                                                                                          x 



ANNEX 8
Appendix I
Table 11
CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Yield, Cost and Price Assumptions
Cost Assumptions:  Agro-Industry Investments (Models VI, VII and VIII)
(US$ '000)
Fruit Cold Store and
Milk Processing Plant               Packing Plant                     W i n e r y
Plant Capacity                              75,000 Lts/two shifts    Cold Store:  100,000 boxes/20 ea.          100 tons grapes/day
Packing   :    3,000 boxes/shift        3,000,000 lts.
Investment Items
1.  Land and Site Preparation                               3                             6                                 3
2. Civil Works
Access roads and plant yards                         40                            40                                20
Fencing and infrastructure                            6                             6                                 6
Processing bldg. and cooler                         140                             -                                 _
Insulated cold store                                  -                           204
Main packing shed                                     -                           100
Fermentation and holding vats                         -                             -                                 -
Sheds for vats and processing                         -                             -                               150
Office, lab., amenities                              75                            75                                90
Garage, store, engine room, aux. bldgs.              30                            40                                45
Sewage treatment                                     24                            12                                30
Sub-total                                         315                          477                                341
3. Utilities
Water wells, pumps, tank, chlorinator                48                            24                                 8
Power substation and controls                        22                            24                                26
Package steam generator and aux.                     36                             -                                 _
Refrigerating equipment and aux.                    120                           180                                90
Service lines                                        23                            23                                12
Crating, freight, insurance                          25                            25                                14
Installation                                         41                            38                                23
Sub-total                                         315                           314                               173
4. Machinery and Equipment
Milk receiving and can washing                       60                             -                                 _
Milk pasteurization, chilling, C.I.P.               200                             -                                 _
Milk storage tanks                                  100                             -                                 -
Dairy products processing equipment                 120                             -                                 -
Bottle washing and filling line                     130                             -                                 -
S.S. piping and fittings                             31                             -                                 -
Fruit bins                                            _                            50
Fruit receiting and washing equipment                 -                           120                                 _
Grading and packing lines                             -                           180                                 -
Grape grinders, conveyors, presses                    -                             -                                30
Heat exchangers, portable pumps, filters              -                             -                                20
Demijdhn washing and filling line                     -                             -                                15
Clarifying filters, sterilizer, insulated vats        -                             -                               100
Bottle washer and bottle filling line                 -                             -                                80
Office, lab., spares, tools, miscellaneous           40                            20                                30
Crating, freight, insurance                          68                            37                                28
Installation                                         75                           81                                 61
Sub-total                                        824                           488
5.  Transportation Equipment                               54                            44                                14
6.  Engineering and Overhead                              145                           128                                88
7.  Import Duties                                         318                           229                               160
Total Investment W/O Contingencies                1,974                         1,686                             1,143
8.  Contingencies, Physical 5%                             99                            84                                57
9.  Working Capital                                        70                           320                               413
Total                                             2,143                         2,090                             1,613
10.  Foreign Exchange Component (%)                (52%) 1,118                     (36%) 742                         (28%) 452
11.  Number of equivalent plants that would be financed   2                                4                                  3
12.  Depreciation Charge                                   139                           113                                 73
March 12, 1976



LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Producer Income and Financi al Rates of Return
Model I: Dairy/Beef Fars (Individual) - 11 Nssic HR
(US$)
Develop-ent         1            2            3            4            5            6            7             8            9           10           11           12-19         20
On-fans Investment Coasts
Psstura Improvement                           -          1,395        1,395                                                                                                                                   -
Fencing                                        -         1,050          420             -            -            -            -            -            -             -            -            -
Water Supply                                   -         1,300             -
Milking Shed                                   -         1,400
Milking Equipment                             -          1,600
Machinery                                      -         3,200
Breeding Stock                                             500                                                                  
SDb-tatal:                      -         13,445        1,815             -            -            -            -            -            -             -            -            -            -
Operating Casts
Labor                                       343            686           686          686          686          686          686          686          686          686           686          686          686           686
PFatrce Mainte-nce                            -               -            -          775          775          775                   -            -            -            -                   -             -            -
Fertili:er                                    -               -         378           756          966        1,176        1,386        1,386        1,386        1,386         1,386        1,386        1,386        1,386
Animal Health                               120             320          350          400          440          480          520          580          600           610          610          610          610           610
Artificial Inseeinttion                      42             105          154          154          168          182          203          217          238           245          245          245          245           245
Machinery Rire and Preight                  240             640          700          800          880          960        1,040        1,160        1,200        1,220         1,220        1,220        1,220         1,220
Repairs and Mainte-neee                       -               -          857          900          900          900          900          900          900           900          900          900          900           900
Bull Purchase                                  -              -            -            -          300            -            -            -          300                    -            -                   -            -
Land Ta                                      68              68           68           68           68           68           68           68           68            68           68           68            68           68
Small Equip-ent Items                        50             100          150          150          150          150          150          150          150           150          150          150           150          150
Sub-total:                    863          1,919        3,343        4,689        5.333        5,377        4,953         5,147        5.528        5,265        5.265         5s265        5,265        5.265
Total:                        863         15364         5158         4689          5,333        5377           5          5147                      52                                        265        5,265
Gress Production Value
Milk                                        702          2,160         3,960        3,969        4,752        5,850        6,525        6,975        7,650         7,875        7,875        7,875        7,875         7,875
Cattle                                      420             570          930        I,soo        1,580        1,740        2,070        2,070        3,220         3,490        3,690        3,690        3,690         3,690
Total:                      1,122          2,730        4.890       5.469         6,332         7,590        8.595        9,045       10,870       11,365         111565                                11.565 119 565
Net Income Befare Project                      259            259          259          259          259          259          259           259          259          259          259           259          259          259
Net Flow Fram Project                                     (12,893)        (527)         521          740        1,954        3,383        3,639         5,083        5,841        6,041        6,041         6,041       15,678/1
Financial Rate of Return: 207,
Cash Flow
Out Y I-vestment Cast 12                       -        13,445         1,815            -                   -            -            -            -             -            -            -             -            -
operatimg CostsL2                     520          1,233        2,657        4,003        4,647        4,691        4,267         4,461        4,842        4,579         4 579/3      4,579        4,579        4,579
Interest/Annuity                        -          1,076        1,221        1,221        1,221        1,221         3,301        3,301        3,301        3,301        3,3017S       3,301             -            -
It-   Sale' 4                             1,122          2,730        4,890         5,469        6,332        7,590        8,595        9,045       10,870        11,365       11,565L     11,565       11,565        11,565                 X
Loan4                                   -         13,445        1.815             -                         -            -            -       _                        -                   -             -            - _  _
Surplms (Deficit)                     602            421        1,012           245          464        1,678        1,027        1,283        2,727        3,485         3,685/3      3,685        6,986         6,986               _ xs
/   Includes incr-me.tal herd value   - US$9,637.
/2  Excluding labor cant, contributed by farm family.
Th Full development year.
/4 100lS f investment costs.
March 12, 1976



CH ILE
LIVESTOCK, FIDUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDHT PROJECT
Proddcer Income and        -in1an Dte   f Retur
Model  II   Be-f/She-p Panp <Cooperatieor Ia divtd-al) - SO Basic Re
Beue   ------------------------------------------------------------ ------ ---------- Year- --------------------------------------------- ----------------------------_------
Developmsent        1             2            3             4             5            6             7            8             9            l0            11            12          13-19          20
On-fern Invest-ent Costs
Pasture Jnprovneo- t                            _          4,650         6,200                                                                                                                                                      -
FPOen g                                         -          4,460              -
Wate.r Spply                                    -             505
Sheep Yards                                     -            400
Catte Yards                                     -             800
Woo I      re                                                 500
Machin-ry                                                   2,200
Sheep - Breeditg Stock                          -          2,480
Cattle - Breediag Stark                         -          3-000                                    -                                                                        --                          -             -
Sab-total:                       -          18,990        6,200             -             -             -            -             -             -            -             -             -             -             -
Speatatng fasts
Lahbo                                       2,744          2,744         2,744         2,744        2,744         2,744        2,744         2,744         2,744        2,744         2,744         2,744         2,744         2,744         2,744
Pasture Mai.te-usee                             -               -            -             -             -             -            -          775         1,550         1,550           775             -             -             -            -
Fertili-er                                      -               -          960        2,240         2,240         2,240        2,240         2,240         2,400        2,720         3,040         3,200         3,200         3,200         3,200
Anifal Health                               1,990           2,410        2,525         2,603        2,483         2,777         3,000        3,400         3,440         3,440        3,440         3,440         3,440         3,440         3,440
Bulla and Rams                                424             222          480           480           536          564           820          592           564           564           564           564           564          564           564
Shearing                                       80             102          105           110          117           127           132          131           131           131           131           131          131           131           131
Machinery lire and Fr-ight                  2,350           2,860        2,990        3,080         3,350         3,620        3,900         4,000         4,000        4,000         4,000         4,000         4,000         4,000         4,000
Repairs end M.ai.taLante                      100             100          500           500          500           500           500          500           500           500           500           500           500          500           500
Land Tan                                      625             625          625           625          625           625           625          625           625           625           625           625          625           625           625
Snall Eqfip-ent Itess                         100             100          200           200          200           200           200          200           200           200           200           200           200          200           200
S,,b-tot.l:                  8,413           913         11.129        12.582        12,795       13.397        14,161        15,207       16,154        16,474        16,019        15.404        15,404       15,404        1,0
Total:                       8_413          28,153       17,329           18         2            13,397        14,161        15 207       16,154        16,474         1            15,404         15_404 15.404
GDeas Pr-duction ValDa
Sheep and Weal                             4,999            6,456        8,043         8,502        9,105        10,084        11,247       12,413        12,467        12,467       12,467        12,467        12,467        12,467        12,467
Cattle                                                     4,800        5.895          6,595       6_385          7,260         8,305     9. 820                 10,825  11,      415              11,415 11. 415       11. 415              11.415
TYtal:                       986            11336        13,938        15,097        15,490        17,344       19,552        222233        29           23.882 233,82               23.882        23 882                     23_882
Net Incame Before Projert                     1,456           1,456        1,456         1,456         1,456        1,456         1,456         1,456        1,456         1,456         1,456         1,456         1,456         1,456         1,456
Net Flas F-ese  Projett                            -        (18,273)      (4,847)        1,059         1,239         2,491        3,935         5,570        5,682         5,952         6,407         7,022         7,022         7,022        30,443L1
Fi.assatl Rate of Retrtn:  16%
Cash Flew
Oat:  I_vest_ent Csts/L2                        -          18,990        6,200             -             -             -            -             -             -            -             -             -
operatins C.nt.L2                    6,355           7,105        9,071        10,524        10,737       11,339        12,103        13,149        14,096       14,416        13,961        13 346/3      13,346        13,346        13,346
lntere-t/An..ity                         -           1,215        1,612         1,612         1,612        1,612         3,871         3,871        3,871         3,871         3,871         3,871/L           -             -             -
Itn-   Sal74                               9,069          11,336        13,938        15,097       15,490        17,344        19,552       22,233        23,292        23,882        23,082       23,882/3      23,882        23,882        23,882
Loan_~                                    -         15,192        4,960              -            -             -             -            -             -             -             -             -             _             _            _
S-rplus (Defitit)                    3,514            (782)       2,015         2,961         3,141        4,393         3,578         5,213        5,325         5,595         6,050         6,665/3    10,536          10,536        10,536
/1  Includes incremental herd value - 110023,421.
/2 Excluding 757. lahbr tent, tonttibuted by Cane iially.
/3 Fu11 develapment year.
/4 80% of tinest-ent teat.
Jantary 12, 1976



CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS. VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Model III: Table Grope: - Peachgs/Nectarines -- Irrigated North Central Vallev: A. 5 ha Medium Former Esterprlse
Investment Costs           Deve-oDpsnt    C          2          3         4          5         6          7         8         9          10        11         12         13        14         15      16-19        20
Fences                           -         140        -
Machinery                                3,281
Trellis (grape)                  -       2,344
Planting material                -       2,126        212
Fertili-ers                      _         302        276
Chemicals                        -          80        181            -          -         -               -         -          -         -          -         -                    -          -          -
Freight                          -       1,241        103
Mechanization                    -       1,925      1,335
Labor                            -       1,226        527
S8btotal                    -      12,665     2,634
Operational costa
Planting material                 80       -          -          39        39         39        39         39        39         39        39         39        39         39        39         39         39        39
Fertilizers                      547       -          -         458       673        826       979        979       979        979       979        979       979        979        979       979        979       979
Chemicals                         47       -          -         393       471        532       602        671       671        671       671        671       671        671        671       671        671       671
Freight                           85       -          _         136        180       212       245        256       256        256       256        256       256        256        256       256        256       256
Mechanization                    759       _          -       1,722     2,593      2,593     2,745      2,935     2,935      2,935     2,935      2,935     2,935      2,935      2,935     2,935      2,935     2,935
Labor                            170       -          -         628      1,038     1,210     1,257      1,304     1,304      1,304     1,304      1,304     1,304      1,304      1,304     1,304      1,304     1,304
Miscellaneous                     25        -           -          -         _          -       -                                        -
Subtotal                  1,713       -          -       3,376     4,994      5,412     5,867      6,184     6,184      6,184     6,184      6,184     6,184      6,184      6,184     6,184      6,184     6,184
Tox                               60       120        i80       240        300       360       420        480       480        480       480 480              480        480        480       480        480       480
Overall total             1,773    12,785      2,814     3,616     5,294      5,772     6,287      6,664     6,664      6,664     6,664      6,664     6,664      6,664      6,664     6,664      6,664     6,664
Sales                          2,137       -                  1,800     4,275      8,235    12,195    15,210    16,560    16,560    16,560    16,560    16,560    16,560    16,560    16,560    16,560    16,560
Salvage valor trees/vines        -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -          -       9,896
Net                              364   (12,785)   (2,814)   (1,816)   (1,019)    2,463       5,908      8,546     9,896      9,896     9,896      9,896     9,896      9,896      9,896     9,896      9,896    19,792
Net Project                      -      (13,149)   (3,178)   (2,180)   (1,383)    2,099      5,544      8,182     9,532      9,532     9,532      9,532      9,532     9,532      9,532     9,532      9,532    19,428
Financial Rate of Return: 227
Cash Flo-/
Out: Investment Coats2/        -       12,665     2,634             -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -         -               -
Operatiosal Cost 1    1,773         120        180     3,616      5,294     5,772      6,287     6,664     6,664      6,664     6,664      6,664     6,664      6,664      6,664     6,664      6,664      6,664
Interest/Annuity.l/       -         811       979        979       979        979     1,824      1,824     1,824      1,824     1,824      1,824     1,824      1,824      1,824     1,824        -          -
In: SIle,4                   2,137       -          -       1,800     4,275      8,235    12,195    15,210    16,560    16,560    16,560    16,560    16.560    16,560    16,560    16,560    16,560    16,560
Loan-                      -      10,132      2,107                  -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -                    -
Surplus  (Deficit)         364    (3,464)   (1,686)   (2,795)   (1,998)    1,484       4,084      6,722     8,0725/   8,072      8,072      8,072     8,072      8,072      8,072     8,072      9,896      9,896
1/  1-es.t-asnt Is 2 ha of table gropes. sd 3 ha of peoches/nectari-es d,rring year t.
2/ lncluding complete labor cost.
3/  Interest 87., 5 years grace, repay-ent  eavr 10 yeacr.
4/ 80°. of inve-tment costs.
5/ Poll development year.                                                                                                                                                                                                             'a
February 25, 1976



CIIILE
LIVESTOCK. FRUITS VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSSRT CERIST PROJECT
lodal 111, Table Grapes - Pe-ches/Nertorties -- TrAxpsed North CeBtral Valley: 3. 5 ho Small FPorer f.tteSprise
*                         ~~~~~~~~(US$)
Imestsoent Cost               Sevolopsaot  -1             2          3           4        _            6           7          8          9          10          11          12         13          14         15        16-19        20
Feces                                           23         -               -                            -          -3
Maohinery                           -          653         -          -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -                      -          -           -           -          -
Trellis                                        387         -
Pleetiog materiol                   -          446          44
FertiSleors                         -           58          14        -          -          -           -          -
Chemicals                           -           15          36
Freight                             -          237          21
l9eehemieatioe                      -          364         247
Lbor                                                       -
Subtotal                      -        2,183         402
Operational Costs
Planting moteriol                    79         64          64         73         73         73          73         73          73         73         73          73         73          73         73          73         73          73
Fertiliear-                         547        438        438         531        575        609         643        643        643         643        643         643        643         643        643         643        643         643
Chemicals                            46         37          37        115        132        146         162        177         177        177        177         177        177         177        177         177        177         177
Freight                              85         68          68         96        104        112         119        121         121        121        121         121        121         121        121         121        121         121
Mlechanization                      759        607         607        926      1,088      1,088       1,122      1,165      1,165       1,165      1,165      1,165       1,165      1,165       1,165       1,165      1,165       1,165
Labor                               -          -           -          -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -
Tam.6                                           72          84         96        109        120         132        144        144         144        144         144        144         144        144         144        144         144
Tax  _  60         72          84       _96         108        120         132        54~~~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~                            ~~~~~~44   14 14  14  14            IL 4   4   14         1/           4
Sbtrotal                    1,576      1,286       1,298      1,837      2,080      2,148       2,251      2,323       2,323      2,323      2,323       2,323      2,323       2,323      2,323       2,323       2,323      2,323
Cash FloAlV
Out: Iovestment Costsz/           -        2,183        402         -          -          -           -          -           -          -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -
Ope-tio.al Costs2/    1,576          1,286       1,298      1,837      2,080      2,148       2,251      2,323       2,323      2,323      2,323       2,323      2,323       2,323      2,323       2,323       2,323      2,323
Interest/Annuityl/          -          175         207        207        207        207         385        385         385        385        385         385        385         385        385         385         -          -
In: Sales                      2,138       1,710      1,710      2,080       2,581      3,381      4,182      4,771       5,030      5,030       5,030      5,030       5,030      5,030       5,030      5,030       5,030      5,030
La-eA/                       -        2,183         402                         -          -           -          -           -          -          -           -          -                       -                -          -
8ueplus (Deficit)            562        249         205         36        294      1,026       1,546      2,063       2,3225/   2,322       2,322       2,322      2,322       2,322      2,322       2,322       2,707      2,707
1/  Investment io 1/3 ha vimeyard, 2/3 ho orchardl (peach/necta) dortig year 1; remaining 4 ha cropped as baesf.
2/ gExlodiog labor cast, cootniboted by form family.
3/  Interest 8K, 5 years grce., repayment over 10 years.
4/   OOTI of i-vestment costs.
5/  FPll dev-lapm-ot year.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              v IR
Febe-ary 25, 1976                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |x m



CHILE
LIVESTOCK. FRUITS. VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Model IV: Appleo/AI,nnds -- Irrigated Central Valley: A. 7 ha Medin F-arrer Enterprise
(US$)
Before    -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Year- ---------------------------------------------------
Investzent Costs             Dovelonnent    1            2          3          4          5          6           7          8          9          10         11         12          13         14         15       16-19         20
Mechin-ry                          -        2,145      2,711                                                                      -          -          -                                                                        -
Planting nsterial                  -        1,236      2,124                               -
Fertilieer                         -          124        321        -          -           -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -           _          -
Chemicals                          -           50        268                               -
Freight                            -          533        814                               -
Mechanization                      -          699      1,403        -          -          _           _          _          _          -          _          _           -          _          _          _           _          _
Labor                              -           61        858        _          -           -          -          -               -          -           -          -          -           -               -           _          -
Subtotal                      -       5,248      8,499                                                                                             -                                                                        -
Operational Costs
Planting ,naterial                 112         93         62        275          88         63         63         63         63         63         63         63          63         63         63          63         63         63
Fertilizer                         766        635        427        772         828        954      1,305      1,655      1,751      1,751      1,751      1,751      1,751       1,751      1,751      1,751       1,751      1,751
Cheelcils                           65         54         37        552        727         857     1,029       1,211      1,386      1,560      1,729      1,799      1,799       1,799      1,799      1,799       1,799      1,799
Freight                            119         99         66        230         241        281        375        455        503        522        555        580         580        580        580         580        580        580
Mechanization                    1,063        880        592      1,701      1,665       1,570      2,076      2,278      2,380      2,748      2,951      2,951      2,951       2,951      2,951      2,951       2,951      2,951
Labor                              239        198        133        735         782        892      1,1056     1,257      1,481      1,687      1,807      1,838      1,838       1,838      1,838      1,838       1,838      1,838
Tree supports                      -          -          -          -           -          -          154        103        154        103        154         103        103        103        103         103        103        103
Mincollaneoss                       35         29         19          16          8        -         _           -          -          _          -          _          _           -                      -          -          -
Subtotal                   2,399       1,988      1,336     4,281       4,335      4,617      6,058      7,022      7,718      8,434       9,010      9,085      9,085      9,085       9,085      9,085      9,085      9,085
Tax                                 04        120        204        288        372        456         540        624        672        672        672        672         672        672        672         672        672        672
Overall total               2,483      7,356    10,039       4,569      4,707      5,073      6,598      7,646      8,390      9,106       9,682      9.757      9,757      9,757       9,757      9,757      9,757      9,757
Sales                            2,993      2,48o      1,667      1,368         849     2,890       6,220    10,350    14,700    19,050    21,800    22,900    22,900            22,900     22,900    22,900    22,900    22,900
Salvage value trees                -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -       13,143
Net                                510    (4,876)   (8,372)   (3,201)   (3,858)   (2,183)            (378)    2,704       6,310      9,944    12,118    13.143    13,143    13,143    13,143    13,143    13,143    26,286
Net Project                        -       (5,386)   (8,882)   (3,711)   (4,368)   (2,693)           (888)    2,194       5,800      9.434    11,608    12,633    12,633         12,633    12,633    12,633        12,633    25,776
Financial Rate of ReturD: 19%
Cash Pnl,l/
Out: InvestaeDt Costs-/          -        5,248      8,499              -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -                -           -          -          -
Operational tCosta2      2,483      2,108       1,540     4,569       4,707      5,073      6,598      7,646      8,390      9,106       9,682      9,757      9,757      9,757       9,757      9,757      9,757       9,757
Intere-t/Ann-ityl/         -           336        880        880        880        880      1,639      1,639      1,639      1,639       1,639      1,639      1,639      1,639       1,639      1,639         -          -
In: Sale8                     2,993       2,480      1,667      1,368        849      2,890      6,220    10,350    14,700    19,050    21,800    22,900    22,900             22,900     22,911     22,900     22,900    22,900
Loa-g/                       -       4,198      6,799         -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -
S.rplu-  (Deficit)          510    (1,014)   (2,453)   (4,081)   (4,738)   (3,063)   (2,017)            1,065      4,671      8,305      10,479    11,5045/  11,504       11,504      11,504    11,504      13,143    13,143
11  Investment in 3 ha of apple orchard doting year 1, pl-c  2 ha during year 2 together with 2 ha of almond, with iste-row cropping for 3 yeorc.
2/ Including complete labor cost.
3/  Interest 87,, 5 years grace, repaym.ent  1ovr 10 years.
4/ 807. of isveStnent casts.
5/  Full developn.e.t year.
February 25, 1976



CIIILE
LIVESTOCK. F'RUITS. VTNINAROS AND) ACRO-INOSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Model IV: Apples/Almonds -- Irrigated Control Valley: B. 7 hl Smell Farmer Enterprise
(US$)
Before    ------------ --------------------- ----------------------------------------------- yea  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
lnvesteent Costs             Ievelopent    1             2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9           10         11         12         13          14         15       16-19        20
Machinery                          _          696
Planting  aterial                  -          456         45        -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -                      -          -          -                      -
Fertilizer                         -           43         49
Chemicals                          -           15         60
Freight                                        185       23
Mechanization                      -          234        152        -          -                -          -          -          -          -                -          -                      -          -          -          -
Labor                              -          -          -          ---------                                                                                                                                           
Subtotal                     -        1,625        329
Operational Costs
Pl-ntig material                  151        106        103        111        104        104        104        104        104         104        104        104        104        104         104        104        104        104
Fertilizer                         766        723        712        782        770        819        869        905        905         905        905        905        905        905         905        905        905        905
Chemicalr                           65         62         60        155        168        19Y        218        244         269        294        320        320        320        320         320        320        320        320
Freight                            119        112        ill        136        137        148        166         169        178        176        186        186        186         186        186        186         186        186
Me-hasization                    1,063      8,002        987      1,174      1,113      1,164      1,240      1,253      1,265       1,335      1,335      1,335      1,335      1,335       1,335      1,335      1,335      1,335
Labor-                                        -          -------                                                                                  --------
Tree supports                      -          -          -          -          -          -           38        -            38        -           38         38         38          38         38         38         38          38
Toe                             -  13         106       119      _132          145        158        172        185        185         183        185        583        18585 5                185        185        185         185
Sabtotal                   2,132      2,111      2,092      2,490      2,437      2,584       2,807      2,860      2,944      2,999      3,073      3,073      3,073       3,073      3,073      3,073       3,073      3,073
Cbsh Flo.I/
OSt: Invest-ent Costs2a          -        1,625        329        -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -           -
Operating Coets-/        2,137      2,111      2,092      2,490      2,437      2,584      2,807       2,860      2,944      2,999      3,073      3,073      3,073       3,073      3,073      3,073       3,073      3,073
Interert/Annuity3/         -          130        156        156        156        156        291         291        291        291        291        291        291         291        291        291         -          -
Is: Baling                    2,993      2,821      2,779      2,736      2,706      3,260       3,790      4,402      5,015      5,427      5,840      5,840      5,840       5,840      5,840      5,840       5,848      5,840
Loan_'                      -        1,625         329        -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -          -          -
surples (Deficit)           856        580        531          90        113        520        692      1,251      1,780      2,137      2,4765/   2,476       2,476       2,476      2,476      2,476       2,767      2,767
1/  Ievestment ia I ha of orchard (3/4 apples, 1/4 almond) d-ring yper 1 with inter-row cropping fot three years; remaining 6 ha cropped as before.
2/  Excluding labor east, rontribhted by fars faRily.
3/  Interest 879, 5 years g-rce, -epaysent over 10 years.
4/ 1007. af inve-tmest costs.
5/  FP11 development year.
Februacy 26, 1976



CHILE
LIVESTOCK. FRUITS. VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDTT PROJECT
Model V: Vineyard - Irrigated Central Vallev: A. 10 ha Mediun Farmer Enterprise
(USM
Before      ____________________--__--------------_-------------------------------------- Year -------------------------------------------------------~------------~~~~------------
Investment Costs             Development    1            2          3          4          5          6          7          S          9           10         11         12         13          14         15       16-19        20
Fences                             -          503        -          -          -                           -          -          -          -          -          -                -           -               -           -
Machinery                          -        6,795        -
Tellis                             -        3,702        972        -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -                     -           -          -          -          -
Vines                              -        1,880        284
Fertilizers                        -          648        669
Chemicals                          -          287        374
Freight                            -        2,072        345
Me-hanization                      -        4,032      3,024
Labor                                       1 I.969      564        -          _          -          -          -         _           _           -          -          _                     -           -          -          -
Subtotal                     -       21,888      6,232        -
Operational Costs
Trelli                                        -          -        2,304         22         22         22         22          22         22         22         22         22         22          22         22         22          22
Vines                               30         12         12         30         30         30         30         30         30          30         30         30         30         30          30         30         30          30
Fcrtilizer-                        746        298        298      1,005      1,005      1,005      1,005      1,005      1,005      1,005       1,005      1,005      1,005      1,005       1,005      1,005      1,005      1,005
Chemicals                          391        156        156        781        781        781        781        7851       781         781        781        781        781        781         781        781        781         781
Freight                            175         70         70        596        239        239        239        239        239         239        239        239        239        239         239        239        239         239
Mechanization                    3,798      1,519      1,519      5,743      6,381      6,381      6,381      6,381      6,381      6,381       6,381      6,381      6,381      6,381       6,381      6,381      6,381      6,381
Labor                            1,304        522        522      1,636      2,113       1_)3      2_13       2          2.113       _,11          1       2J1        2,113      2,113       2,113      2,113      2,113      2.113
Subtotal                   6,444      2,577      2,577    12,095    10,571        10,571     10,571     10,571     10,571     10,571     10,571     10,571     10,571    10,571       10,571     10,571    10,571       10,571
Tax                                120        288        408        528        648        768        888    _  960         960        960         960        960        960        960         960        960        960         960
Overall total              6,564    24,753       9,217    12,623    11,219    11,339         11,459    11,531      11,531    11,531      11,531     11,531      11,531     11,531     11,531     11,531      11,531     11,531
Sales                            8,000     4,480       5,440      7,840    11,520    14,880       18,240    20,160    22,080    22,080    22,080    22,080           22,080     22,080     22,080    22,080       22,080     22,080
Salvage value vines                           -                                           -                           -                -          -          -          -           -          -          -           -       10549
Net                              1,436   (20,273)   (3,777)   (4,783)          301      3,541      6,781      8,629     10,549    10,549       10,549    10,549    10,549       10,549      10,549    10,549      10,549    21,098
Net project                        -      (21,709)   (5,213)   (6,219)   (1,135)    2,105          5,345      7,193      9,113      9,113       9,113      9,113      9,113      9,113       9,113      9,113      9,113      19,662
Financial Rate of Return: 14°/,
Cash Flow/
Out: Investment Coet_2/          -      21,888      6,232         -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -          -          -           -
Operating Cost_2/        6,564      2,865      2,985    12,623    11,219    11,339    11,459    11,531    11,531    11,531             11,531     11,531     11,531      11,531     11,531     11,531    11,531       11,531
Interest/Annuity3/         -       1,401       1,800      1,800      1,800      1,800      3,352      3,352       3,352      3,352      3,352      3,352      3,352       3,352      3,352      3,352         -          -
In: Sales                     8,000    4,480        5,440      7,840    11,520    14,880    18,240    20,160    22,080    22,080            22,080    22,080    22,0850    22,080        22,080    22,080    22,0580       22,080
Lo._4/                       -     17,510       4,986        -           -          -          -          -                -          -          -          -                -           -          -          -           -
Surplus (deficit)         1,436   (4,164)        (591)   (6,583)    (1,499)       1,741      3,429      5,277      7,1975i  7,197        7,197       7,197      7,197      7,197      7,197       7,197     10,549     10,549
1/  Investment in 6 ha of new vineyard, 4 ha of rehabilitated vineyard doting ye-r I.
2/  Including complete labor cat.
3/  Interest 8h, 5 years grane, re-poyent over 10 years.
/  80/. of Investment coats.
5/Fill development year.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   zs- |
Febroary 20, 1976                                                                                                                                                                                                                           so  R



CHILE
LIVESTOCK  FRUIITS, VINEYARDS AND ACRE-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Model V: Vingyard - Irrigated Central Volley: B. 15 Is Snl Former EntSSi-e
Investment Costs              _evelepaent    1           2          3          4          5          6          7          8           9          iS         11         12         13          14         i5       16-19       '20
Fences                             -            270      -
Machinery                          -          679        -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -
Trellis                            -          462          7        -          -           - _    _                         - _    _    _    _    _                                            -          -          -
Vines                              -          295         30
Fertili-ers                        -           58         62        -          -           -               -          -          -          -          -           -                -          -          -          -          -
Chenmi-ls                          -           22         36
Freight                            -          238         20
M-echaniztion                      -          464        386        -          -          -           -          -          -
Labor                              -          -          -                                                            -          -           -          -          -          -
Siobtotal                    -        2,288         541
9perational Costs
Trells                             -          -                     382          2           2          2          2          2          2          2          2          2           2          2          2           2          2
Vines                               29         26         26         29         29          29         29         29         29         29         29         29         29          29         29         29         29          29
Fertili.ers                        485        437        437        513        513        513         513        513        513        513        513        513        513         513        513        513        513         513
Chenicals                          391        352        352        430        430        430        430         420        430        430        430        430        430        430         430        430        430         430
Freight                            175        157        157        241         181        181        161        181        181        181        181        181        181         181        181        181         181        181
Mechanoiation                    3,798      3,418      3,418      3,950      4,057      4,057      4,057      4,057      4,057       4,057      4,057      4,057      4,057      4,057       4,057      4,057      4,057      4,057
Labor-                                        -          -          -           -          -          -                     -
Tao                                120        120        132        144        156         168        180        192        204       204        204               204  204          04        204        254        204         204
Subtotal                   4,998      4,510       4,522      5,689      5,368      5,380      5,392      5,404      5,416      5,416      5,416      5,416       5,416      5,416      5,416      5,416       5,416      5,416
Cash Flo-1/
Out: Inestnent Costs2/          -        2,288        541                         -          -          -          -          -          -                      -          -          -           -               -           -
Operating Costs_/        4,998      4,510      4,522      5,689       5,368      5,380      5,392      5,404      5,416      5,416      5,416      5,416       5,416      5,416      5,416      5,416       5,416      5,416
Interest/Auity3/           _          183        226         226        226        226        421        421        421        421        421        421        421         421        421        421                    -
In: Sales                     0,000      7,200      7,200      7,440      7,840      8,400      8,960      9,280      9,600      9,600       9,600      9,600      9,600      9,600       9,600      9,600      9,600      9,600
Leon4/                      -        2,288         541        -          -          -          -          -          -                     -           -          -                     -            _ 
Surplos (Defirit)         3,002      2,507       2,452      1,525      2,246      2,794      3,147      3,455      3,7635/   3,763       3,763      3,763       3,763      3,763      3,763       3,763      4,184      4,184
1/  Investment in 1 ha of new vineyard doting year 1; remainin8 9 ha cropped an before.
2/  Encluding labor cost, cont,ibuted by far  family.
3/  Interest 82, 5 yearn grace, repayment over 10 years.
4/ 100% of iovestment costs.
5/ FDll development ye-r.
Fecbrary 23, 1976                                                                                                                                                                                                                           e'f| r
In A en
i> IN



ChILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Agro-Industry Income and Financial Rate of Return
Model VI: Milk Processing
(us$ '000)
-------------------------------------------------------------   Years   -------------------
Inveat,sents/l                                    1         2         3         4         5         6         7        8          9         10      11       12      13-16      17        18      19-20
Land and site preparation                        3         -
Civil works                                    315         -
Utilities                                       90       225         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -        -       157       157
Machinery and equipment                        272       552         -         -         -         -         -         _         -         _         _        _        -      412       412
Transportation equipment                         7        47         _         -         -         -       54                   -          -         -       54        -        54         -
Engineering and overhead                       102       .43                   -         -         -         -         -              -              -        -        -        57        57
Import duties                                            318         _         _         _         _        28         -         -         -         -       28        _       165       137
Total Investment                             789    1,185    8               -         - _       X    _ 7
Contingencies, physical, 5%                     39        60         -         -         -         -         4                                                   -  -  -  -     42        38
Working capital                                  -        70        _- _                _                                        -        _         _        _        _        _           -       _
Sub-total:                                   828    1,315          -         -         -         -       86         -          -         -         -                        887       801
operating Costs
Raw milk purchases                               -         -       920    1,620    1,620    1,620    1,620    1,620    1,620    1,620    1,620   1,620   1,620    1,620    1,620   1,620
Direct labor                                     -         -       150       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200      200      200       200       200      200
Purchased power, fuel, water                     -         -       130       215       215       215       215       215       215       215       215      215      215       215       215      215
treatment
Packing, misc. materials                         _         -       150       250       250       250       250       250       250       250       250      250      250       250       250      250
Milk collection & retailing                      _         _       165       270       270       270       270       270       270       270       270      270      270       270       270      270
expenses
Taxes                                            -                  75       120       120       120       120       120       120       120       120      120      120       120       120      120
Maintenance                                      -         -        35        50        50        50        50        50        50        50        50       50       50        50        50       50
Administration expenses                          -         -        20        25        25        25        25        25        25        25        25       25       25        25        25       25
Technical, administrative and
supervisory personnel                          -         -        50        60        60        60       60        60         60        60        60       60       60        60        60       60
Management                                       -         -         0O       30        30        30        30        30        30        30        30       30       30        30        30       30
Sub-total:                                     _               1,725    2,840    2,840    2,840    2,840    7,840    2,840    2,840            2,0   2,840   2,840         2,840    2,840       8
Total:                                       828    1,315      1.725    2,840    2.840    2.840    2.,926    2,840    2.6_40    2,840    2,840   2,926   2,840             3,727    3.641   2.840
Income
Pasteurized milk sold                            _         _    1,655    2,705    2,705    2,705    2,705         2,705      2,705    2,705      2,705   2,705   2,705    2,705    2,705   2,705
Butter sold                                      -         -       100       160       160       160       160       160       160       160       160      160      160       160       160      160
Yoghurt and ice cream sold                        -        -       275       450       450       450       450       450       450       450       450      450      450       450       450      450
Total:                                         _               2,030    3,315    3,315    3,315    3,31             3,315    3,315    3,315    3,315   3,315   3,3i5    3,315    3,315   3,315
Net Flow From Project                           (828)  (1,315)       305       475       475       475       389       475       475       475       475      389      475     )(42)    (326)   3475
Borrower's Equity, 20%                           166       263          -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -                   -       -          -                  - 
Long Term Loan                                   662    1,052
Short Term Loan                                    10       64
Last Year's Cash Balarnce                           -        10       10        79        95        95        89         9        13        13         8      249   404/1077 1,318         672  62/103
Debt Service: Long Term Loan Interest, 8%           -        53      137       137       122       105        87        68        47         24             -        -         -         -             -
Long Term Loan Principal            -         -         -       192       207       224       242       261       282       306         -        -        -         -         -        -
Short Term Loan Interest, 8%        -         1         5         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Short Term Loan Principal           _        10        64         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Income Tax, 407,/2                                  -         -        10       80        86        92       100       107       116       125       134       134      134       134       134      134
Dividends Distributed                               _         -        20       50        60        60        40        35        30         25       100      100      100       100       150 300/350
Cash Balance At Year's End                         10        10        79        95        95        89         9        13       13          8       249      404  645/1,318   672          62  103/94
Financial Rate of Return:  17%                                                                                                                                                                                     r
/1 Transportation eqelip.ent replaced in Years 7, 12 and 17; utiliries, machinery and equipment in Yeat 17 and 18.
/2   After interest charges and a depreciation charge of US$139,000.
January 22, 1976



CHILE
LIVESTOC  A   AGRO-TNDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Agro-Industry income ad Financial Rate of Return
Model VII: Fruit Coldstore and Parking Plant
(us$ '000)
----------------------------------------------        - -~ ----- -------  Y ears-   --------- -----------------------------------------------------------
1         2         3          4         5          6          7         8         9          10       11        12      13-16       17         18      19-20
Investments/-
Tand and site preparation                          6
Civil works                                      477
Utilities                                         92         Z2          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -         -        -          -         -         -2
Machinery and equipment                          120        368
Transportation equipment                           7         37          -         -          -         -         44               -         -              -       44          -       44          -
Engineering and overhead                          90         38          -         -          -          -         -         -          -         -         -       --          -       40         40
Import duties                                      -        229        _          -                               38        _         _                   _         38         _       122         84
Total Investment                              792         8            -         -                             82          -          -         -         -       82          -      206        124
Contingencies, physical 52.                       40         44          -         -          -         -          4          -         -         -         -        4          -        29        26
Working capital                                    -        320                                                                             -                              -              -          -
Sub-total:                                    832      1,258                                                                             86 -  -  -      -        86          -      235        150
Operating Costs
Raw fruit purchares                                -           -       165       606        606       606        606       606        606       606       606      606        606      606        606        606
Direct labor                                       -           -        80       101        101       101        101       101        101       101       101      101        101      101        101        101
Purchased power                                    -          -         15        19         19        19         19        19         19        19        19       19         19        19        19         19
Cartons, crates, misc. materials                   -                   121       179        179       179        179       179        179       179       179      179        179      179        179        179
Freight and marketing                              -          -         60        75         75        75         75        75         75        75        75       75         75        75        75         75
Taxes                                                              -          -          -         -          -         -          -                        -         -         -         -          -         -
Maintenance                                        -           -        30        38         38        38         38        38         38        38        38       38         38        38        38         38
Administration expenses                            -           -        15         18        18         18        18         18        18         18       18        18        18        18        18         18
Technical, administrative and
supervisory personnel                            -          -        34         42        42         42        42         42        42         42       42        42         42       42         42        42
Management                                         -           -        17        17         17         17        17         17        17         17      1]7        17        17        17        17         17
Sub-total:                                       -          -       537      1,095    T,9         1,095     t,O95      10O9S                1.555                                            1,93       1
Total:                                        832       1,258       537      1.095    _.095       1,O95    1_181       1.095     1.095      1.095    1.095   .1.Jbl    iO9         1_.245                2
Income
Packed fruit sold for export                       -           -       420       525        525       525        525       525        525       525       525      525        525      525        525        525
Packed fruit sold for local                        -           -       780       975        975       975        975       975        975       975       975      975        975      975        975        975
Crated reject fruit sold for local                                      20         25        25         25         5          5         5         25       25        25         25       25         25        25
Total:                                                      _    1220        1,        1525       1 525     1 525          2        _       1.525   1E,525    1          1.525 1.525
Net Flow From  Project                            (832)   (1,258)        683        430       430        430       344        430       430        430      430       344        430      195        280       430
Borrower's Equity  20%                             166         752
Long Term Loan                                     666      1,006
Short Term  Loan                                    10          64
Last Year's Cash Balance                              -         10        10        268       257        240       217        111         83        47        10      267     388/809    966         487     43/50
Debt Service: Long Term Loan Interest 8%              -         53       134        134        119       103         85        66         46        24         -         -         -         -         -          -
Long Term Loan Principal             -           -         -        187       202        218       236        255       275        299
Short Term Loan Interest8            -           1         5          -         -          -          -         -          -         -
Short Term Loan Principal            -          10        64          -         -          -         -          -
Income Tax 407.LZ2                                    -          -       172         76         82        88         95       103        Ill       120       129      129        129      129        129        129
Dividends Distributed                                 -          -         50        50         50        50         40        40         40         30       50      100      ]50/150    150        200        300
Cash Balance at Year's End                           10         10       268        257        240       217        111        83         47         10      267      388      545/966    487         43      50/57
Financial Rate of Return:  19%                                                                                                                                                                                                 n.
/I  Transportation equipment replaced in Years 7 12 and 17; utilities, machinery and equipment in Years 17 and 18.
/2 After interest charges and a depreciation charge of US$113,000.
March 15, 1976



CHILE
LIVESTOCK. FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Agro-Industry Income and Financial Rate of Return
Model VIII: Winery
(USS '000)
Investments-/!   prpraIn1                                      2         3         4         5          6         7         8          9         10       11        12      13-16       17        18      19-20
Land and site preparation                           3                    
Civil works                                       341
Utilities                                          49       124         -         -         -         -          -         -          -          -        -         -        -        86         86
Machinery and equipment                            98       266         -         -         -          -         -         -          -          -         -        -        -        182       182
Transportation equipment                            7         7         -         -         -          -        14         -          _          _                 14                  14         -
Engineering and overhead                           61        27         -         -         -          _         -         _          _          _         _        -        -         27        27
Import duties                                       -       160         -                                       10         -          -          -        -        10        -        85         75
Total investment                                559       584        -          -         _         _         24         -         _           _                24         -       394        370
Contingencies, physical, 57O                       28        29         -         -          -         -         I              -     -          -         -        1         -        20        19
Working capital                                     -       413                                                                                                                         -         -
Sub-total:                                     587     1,026         -          -         -         -        25                                                 25         -       414       389
Operating Coats
Raw grape purchases                                 -          -      31        555       555       555        555       555       555         555      555       555      555       555        555      555
Direct labor                                        -          -       25        31        31         31        31        31         31         31        31       31       31         31        31       31
Purchased power                                     -         -         9        11        11        11         11        11         11         11       11        11       11         11        11       11
Bottles., demijohns, misc. materials                -         -       30         37        37        37         37        37         37         37       37        37       37         37        37       37
Freight and marketing                               -         -       61         77        77        77         77        77         77         77        77       77       77         77        77       77
Taxes                                               -          -     194        242       242        242       242       242        242        242      242       242      242        242       242      242
Maintenance                                         -          -       14        19        19         19        19        19         19         19        19       19       19         19        19       19
Administration expenses                             -          -       12        14        14         14        14        14         14         14        14       14        14        14        14        14
Technical, administrative and
technical personnel                               -         -       20         25        25        25         25        25        25          25       25        25       25        25         25       25
Management                                                     _       17        17        17         17        17        17         17         17        17       17        17        17        17        17
Sub-total:                                        _         _      413    1,028       1,028     1,028     1,028      1,028     1,028     *1,028   1,028    1,028    1,028        1,028      1,028    1,028
Total:                                         587      1,026      413     1,028        1       1,028     1,053      1028      1028        12       1028    1,053    1,028       1,442      1.417    1.028
Income
Wine in bottles sold for export                     -          -     440        550       550        550       550       550        550        550       550      550      550        550       550       550
Wine in bottles sold for local                      -          -      200       250       250        250       250       250        250        250       250      250      250        250       250       250
Wine in demijohns sold                              -          -      240       300       300        300       300       300        300        300       300      300       300       300       300       300
Wine In bulk sold                                   -          -      210       263       263        263       263       263        263        263       263      263      263        263       263       263
Total:                                            _         -   1,090      1,363      1,363     1 ,363    1,363      1,363     1,363       1,363    1,363    1,363    1,363      1,363      1,363   1,363
Net Flow From Project                              (587)  (1,026)    677          335        335       335       310        335       335         335      335      310       335       (79)       (54)    335
Borrower's Equity  20%                              117        205        -         -          -         -          -         -         -           -        -         -        -          -         -        -
Loclg Term Lean                                     470       821
Short Term Loan                                      lo         49
Last Year's Cash Balance                               -        10       10       312        328       320       288        227       186         139       87        38   143/533      663        379   70/60
Debt Service: Long Term Loan Interest, 87%             -        38      103       103         93        82         71        59        45          31       15         -        -          -         -         -
Long Term Loan Principal               -         -        -       122       132        143       154        166       180         194      200
Short Term Loan Interest 8%            -         1        4         -          -         -          -         -         -           -        -
Short Term Loan Principal             -         10       49         -          -         -          -
Income Tax 407/2                                       -         -      199        64         68        72        76         81        87          92       99       105      105       105        105      105
Dividends Distributed                                  -         -       20        30         50        70         70        70        70          70       70        GO     100        100       150      240
Cash Balanc2 At Year's End                            10        10      312       328        320       288       227        186       139          87       38       143   273/663       379        70   60/50
Financial Rate of Return:  22%                                                                                                                                                                                                s  .
E1  Transportation equipment replaced in Years 7, 12 and 17; utilities, machinery and equipment inl Years 17 and 18.
L. After interest charges and a depreciation charge of US$73,000.
January 22, 1976



ANNEX 9
Page 1
CHILE
LIVESTOCK, FRUITS, VINEYARDS AND AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The rate of return from the Project to the economy has been
calculated both separately for each model and as an overall rate of return
for the Project. For the economic evaluation, the following assumptions
have been made:
(a) except for beef, present prices prevailing in
September 1975 have been used for estimating benefits
throughout the life of the Project. Beef prices have
been adjusted in accordance with the projections of the
Bank's Commodity and Export Projections Division;
(b) present prices have been used for investments and current
expenditures after making due allowances for taxes and
customs duties on imported items;
(c) the residual value of breeding stock and orchards has been
accounted for;
(d)  investment costsinclude physical contingencies; and
(e) farm labor has been priced at the prevailing commercial
rate.
2.        Based on these assumptions, the Project's economic rate of return
per investment category has been estimated as follows:
(a)  dairy/beef                          28%
(b)  beef/sheep                          26%
(c)  table grapes/peaches/nectarines   31%
(d)  apples/almonds                      26%
(e)  wine grapes                         22%
(f)  milk processing                     26%
(g)  fruit cold storage and packing    22%
(h)  wine processing                     39%
The overall economic rate of return for the Project has been estimated at
27%.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
3.        To measure the Project's sensitivity to deviations from basic
price and benefit assumptions, four alternative sets of benefits and costs
have been used:
(a) benefits would be 10% less than estimated;
(b)  benefits would be 10% less than estimated and costs would
be 10% higher than estimated;
(c) benefits would be 10% less than estimated and costs would
be 20% higher than estimated; and
(d) investment costs would be 10% higher than estimated.
As a result of these alternative assumptions, the overall rate of return
from the Project drops to 21%, 19%, 17% and 25%, respectively.
4.        Social benefits of increasing employment and benefits, particularly
for small farmers and in agro-industries, cannot be measured accurately.
However,  they would enhance the Project's already satisfactory economic
rate of return.
November, 1976






CHI L E
LIVESTOCK,FRUITS,VINEYARDS AND AGROINDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
MAJOR ECOLOGICAL ZONES AND THEIR AGRICULTURE
NOVEMBER  1975
ro-A L   A PFA   : L R1VA 11   A   , !; TR MIGATED   ARE,                                                      1 Nt A A     NJAL  PEA   ANNIJ1A TL
TO2A    22CLVAL    t2IICTA2E                                                                                     PFA2A,TURE    PLECIAi TATIOSI
AGPCCLT!JkAT PRODUCTION        ZDNE        kns  1121' .    rAu              Ia 12O11
I  20IQUIUE                                                  .3                25-
Trrillatel nases              Dsr            7                j1.                            
aed rIver valleys            llOSe,-t         A              '1               11.2                                                                                              .
ANTOFAGASTA)A             5|
Irri ace,' rirsr                                                                                                          / 2 
railer s an.l oaaee .          Arlad        1l2              1 2 4            13.1.
-          LA SERENA                            0 22 ~4a                       114
VALPARAISO -A0                                   13. U             359-
Tau 22, rs-'atthIII                                                                             V NA              SNTIAG1.2                                       5
fAa, s)   rlart, nal-e,   Me2jt;rriaeaeI  9J             2122             1121.1                               ,   *  8RfNCAGLJA
at:. ler  AliASs^                                                                                           I          AC      
I  I?                                I                                     \y  -\te   I                                   ll                 21        
0    AI
I   I                                                                             Ar-)      y    j                                   [                                       g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.IE 
mA" lk,  P-rp,                                                                                                 I'
f restr- ,u1 | mac 0    |_5lay] 
l     2  acne'              Aaap-ry          102            2222              171 2                   r          *
~~A~~r heats, Asaite,                                             >c'~~~~~~~~~--~--VAL  4V A'                                  1 --9--251.
PUNTA         ,   X                              6 LI            2754
PERCENT OF RURAL POPULAT ON                                  ClITIES OVER gO,OOO INHAEBIIAN rS 
asA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ALi I
D      450-IOOl OO      Iro- 3          -0oo  mor; 0
K *       -=Ti>  [        -  19       20- _9       40-59         60 -79






