CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1350 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Livestock, Fruits, Vineyards and
Agro-Industry Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 17, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿- 2 -                1-4-76
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eneral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Banco Central" means B! ,co Central de Chile;
(b) "Participating Entity" means Banco del Estado, CORFO,
INDAP, any commercial bank or any financial institution, once it
has entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "Banco del Estado" means Banco del Estado de Chile, and
such term includes any successor thereto;
(d) "CORFO" means Corporaci6n de Fomento de la Producci6n,
and such term includes any successor thereto;
(e) "INDAP" means Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecuario and
such term includes any successor thereto;


﻿-3-
(f) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any one of the agree-
ments to be entered into between Banco Central, acting on behalf
of the Borrower, and a Participating Entity pursuant to Section
3.02 (c) of this Agreement; and "Subsidary Loan" means a loan
provided for in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(g) "Sub-loan Agreement" means an agreement to be entered
into, pursuant to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, between a Partici-
pating Entity and a Beneficiary for the financing of an Investment
Plan; and "Sub-loan" means a loan provided for in a Sub-loan Agree-
ment;
(h) "Beneficiary" means any of the following persons or in-
stitutions to which the Participating Entity proposes to make or
has made a Sub-loan: (i) small farmers, minifundistas, with a farm
of a size of up to 5 basic ha; (ii) small farmers, beneficiaries
of the agrarian reform, with a farm of a size of more than 5 basic
ha and not more than 12 basic ha; (iii) medium-size farmers, with
a farm of a size of more than 12 basic ha and not more than 80 basic
ha; (iv) farmers' cooperatives and sociedades agrfcolas de reforma
agraria; and (v) agro-industry enterprises;
(i) "Investment Plan" means a plan to increase or improve,
or both, the physical resources and productivity of a farm, or to
establish, increase or improve an agro-industry, including, but
without limitation, the acquisition of such goods and services and
the construction of such facilities as shall be required for the
purpose of carrying out the Investment Plan;


﻿-4-
(j) "Basic ha" means "hectareas de riefo basicas" as defined
in Article 172 of Law No. 16640 (Ley de Reforma graria) of the
Borrower;
(k) "Project Account" means Banco Central's account referred
to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(1) "Project Commission" means the commission created by
the Borrower's Decreto No. 608, dated May 20, 1975, and referred
to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and
(m) "Decreto Ley 455" means Decreto Ley No. 455 of the Bor-
rower, dated May 13, 1974, as amended by Decreto Ley No. 1533, dated
July 29, 1976, concerning credit operations in Chile.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in re-
spect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3.4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy hundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. Banco Central is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause Banco Central and the
Participating Entities to carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause Banco Central:
(a) to establish and maintain a Project Account for the
purpose of recording all receipts and payments of money for or
in connection with the Project;
(b) to deposit in the Project Account (i) immediately upon
withdrawal from the Loan Account, such amounts of money in the
currency of the Borrower as shall be equivalent to the amounts
withdrawn by the Borrower from time to time from the Loan Account
for Sub-loans; (ii) the amount referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of
this Agreement; (iii) until Sub-loans in an amount equivalent to
$50,000,000 have been made or the Closing Date, whichever comes
first, such amounts of money as the Borrower shall have determined
in consultation with the Bank, which shall be necessary for the
carrying out of the Project; (iv) all payments made by Participating
Entities to Banco Central in accordance with the Subsidiary Loan


﻿- 8 -
Agreements; and (v) all payments made by Participating Entities to
Banco Central in accordance with the relending operations provided
for in paragraph (d) of this Section;
(c) (i) to lend to the Participating Entities such amounts
of money as shall have been credited to the Project Account pur-
suant to sub-paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of the preceding para-
graph (b), under Subsidiary Loan Agreements, on such terms and
conditions as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank, and on such other terms and conditions as
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, provided, however, that at least
20% of such amounts shall be lent for further relending to the small
farmers referred to in Section 1.02 (h) (i) of this Agreement; and
(ii) to exercise its rights in relation to any Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank, and not to take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving any pro-
vision of any such Subsidiary Loan Agreement without the prior
approval of the Bank; and
(d) to cause the amounts referred to in subparagraphs (iv)
and (v) of paragraph (b) of this Section, after deduction therefrom
of (1) principal, interest and other charges paid or to be paid by
the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with this Agreement, and
(2) Banco Central's direct operating expenses attributable to the
administration of the Project, to be used for further lending for
general agricultural purposes for a period of seventeen years from
the date of this Agreement on such terms and conditions as shall
be agreed from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿- 9 -
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the Project Commission
(i) to supervise and coordinate the carrying out of the Project;
and (ii) to convene in full session for the purpose of such super-
vision and coordination at least once a month, during the execution
of the Project.
Section 3.04. In order to evaluate the results of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause Banco Central to establish a monitoring
system, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall collect technical and
,L .nancial data on at least 5% of each category of the Beneficiaries.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall at all times provide or cause
the Participating Entities to provide such agricultural extension
and other technical services as shall be required by the Benefi-
ciaries for the proper carrying out of the Project, and shall cause
such services to be made available to the Beneficiaries through
competent professionals trained in the techniques appropriate to
the Investment Plans.
Section 3.06. The Borrower: (i) shall cause Banco Central
and the Participating Entities to maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and farms included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant


﻿- 10 -
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be fur-
nished to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds,
and, in respect of the Project, the administration, operations and
financial condition of Banco Central and the participating Entities.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 12 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the horrever.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause Banco Central to
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions and financial condition of Banco Central, in respect of
the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause Banco Central to: Ci) have its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements), in respect of the
Project, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements, in respect of the Project, for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope


﻿- 13 -
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of Banco Central, in re-
spect of the Project, and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 114 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that any provision of Decreto
Ley 455 shall have been amended, abrogated or waived, or shall not
have been enforced, in a manner which shall materially and adversely
affect the adjustment, referred to in Parts A.3 and B.A of Schedule
4 to this Agreement, of the principal amount of credit operations
under the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any event specified in Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 17 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64125 (wUI)


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
Countersigned on behalf of
the Controller General of
the Republic of Chile         REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Tomrs Amenabar         By /s/ Mario MacKay Jaraquemada
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Project Account has been established and the Borrower
has deposited therein an amount of money in the currency of the
Borrower equivalent to not less than $7,000,000; and
(b) Banco Central has entered into Subsidiary Loan Agreements
with Banco del Estado, INDAP and at least one other Participating
Entity.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional mat-
ter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to
the Bank, namely, that the agreements referred to in Section 6.01 (b)
of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the parties thereto, and are
legally binding upon the parties thereto in accordance with their
terms.
Section 6.03. The date June 17, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Sub-Secretario de Agricultura of the Bor-
rower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Agricultura
Teatinos 40
Santiago
Chile
With copies to:
Banco Central de Chile
Gerencia de Organismos Internacionales
Agustinas 1180
Santiago, Chile
Cable address:
MINAGRI
Santiago
With copies to:               Telex:
CENTROBANC                    40729
Santiago


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans                  4.400,000          50% of amounts
under Part A                                 disbursed under
the Sub-loans
(2) tdb-loans                12,600,000          50% of amounts
under Parts B                                disbursed under
and C                                        the Sub-loans
(3) Sub-loans                  8,000,000          50% of amounts
under Part D                                 disbursed under
the Sub-loans
TOTAL     25,000,000


﻿- 20 -
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above:
(a) withdrawals in respect of Sub-loans to Beneficiaries
other than small farmers referred to in Section 1.02 (h) (i) of
this Agreement, shall not exceed in the aggregate an amount equiv-
alent to 80% of the Loan amount; and
(b) if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,


﻿- 21 -
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's lending program for
the financing of investments in livestock, fruits, vineyards and
agro-industry.
The Project includes:
Part A.   Extension of Sub-loans to help develop (i) about 650
small- and medium-size dairy or beef farms, operated
mainly by beneficiaries of the agrarian reform and
making investments for items such as pasture improve-
ment and fence construction, purchase of breeding
stock, farm machinery, water supply, milking sheds and
dairy equipment; and (ii) about 1,050 beef or sheep
farms, operated mainly by cooperatives, including
those established after the agrarian reform, and mak-
ing investments for items such as pasture improvement,
purchase of breeding stock and machinery, and fence
construction.
Part B.   Extension of Sub-loans to help finance planting of new
orchards and rehabilitation of existing ones mainly
under irrigated conditions, and primarily in the central
region of Chile. Beneficiaries of such Sub-loans will be
(i) about 800 farmers growing inter alia table grapes,
peaches and nectarines, making investments for items
such as mechanization, trellising and fencing planting


﻿- 23 -
material, labor freight, fertilization and pest and weed
control; and (ii) about 950 farmers growing inter alia
apples and almonds, making investments for items such as
mechanization, planting material, labor, freight, ferti-
lization and pest and weed control.
Part C.   Extension of Sub-loans to help finance the rehabilita-
tion and planting of vineyards, both under rainfed and
irrigated conditions, in the central region of Chile.
Such Sub-loans will be made to about 1,700 farmers,
making investments for items such as mechanization,
trellising and fencing, labor, vines, fertilization
and pest and weed control.
Part D.   Extension of Sub-loans to help finance the development
of about 80 agro-industries, mainly for dairy processing,
fruit cold storage and packing, and wine production.
Investments for dairy processing will include inter alia
weighing tanks, pumps, centrifuges, can washers, heat ex-
changers, holding tanks, bottling lines, bottle washing
units, equipment for making and packing butter, yoghurt,
ice cream and such, civil works, and initial working
capital in case of new enterprises; investments for fruit
cold storage and packing will include inter alia construc-
tion of insulated cold stores, refrigerating equipment,
fully equipped fruit packing lines and corresponding
sheds, lift trucks, water and power supply, and other
infrastructure and auxiliary equipment, and initial work-
ing capital in case of new enterprises; investments in
wine production will consist of inter alia renovation


﻿- 24 -
of old and obsolete facilities, including concrete fer-
mentation and holding vats, grape crushers, presses and
portable puMps.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1981
through September 1, 1993                       925,000
On March 1, 1994                                     950,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 26 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                           1.55%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                           3.05%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                           5.65%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                           7.70%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                           8.70%


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Relending Terms and Conditions
A.   Subsidiary Loan Agreements
1.   Banco Central will, on behalf of the Borrower, refinance, under
Subsidiary Loans, 100% of the amounts of the Sub-loans made or to
be made by the Participating Entities.
2.   Each Subsidiary Loan will be denominated and repayable by the
Participating Entity to Banco Central in local currency within the
same period provided by the Participating Entity for the repayment
of the amounts disbursed under Sub-loans.
3.   The outstanding principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan will
be adjusted by Banco Central in the same proportion as the modifi-
cation of the Borrower's Consumer Price Index for the relative
period in question, and in accordance with the provisions of
Decreto Ley 455.
4.   The adjusted outstanding principal amount of the portion of
each Subsidiary Loan to be relent for (i) Parts A, B and C of the
Project will bear interest at an annual rate of no less than 2.5%
and no more than 4.5%; and (ii) Part D of the Project will bear
interest at an annual rate of no less than 4.5% and no more than
8.5%.


﻿- 28 -
5.   Fach Participating Entity will undertake to make Sub-loans
in accordance with the provisions of Part B of this Schedule.
6.   (a) Each Participating Entity will undertake that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms
whereby the Participating Entity will obtain, by written contract
with the Beneficiary or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and
the Participating Entity, including the right of the Participating
Entity to: (i) require the Beneficiary to carry out the Investment
Plan with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate technical, financial and agricultural practices and
to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (1) machinery and
equipment to be financed out of the proceeds of any Sub-loan under
Part D of the Project shall be purchased through negotiated contracts
after the Beneficiary has obtained quotations from at least three
suppliers; (2) the other goods and works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Sub-loans shall be purchased through regular com-
mercial channels, at a reasonable price, account being taken also
of other relevant factors such as time of delivery, efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of service facilities
and (3) the goods and works financed by the Sub-loans shall be
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Plan; (iii)
examine, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if
the Bank shall so request, such goods and works and visit the farms
and facilities included in the Investment Plan, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) require that
the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers


﻿- 29 -
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice; (v) obtain all such informa-
tion as the Bank, the Borrower or the Participating Entity shall
reasonably request relative to the foregoing and to the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary; and
(vi) suspend and terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use
of the proceeds of the Sub-loan, and accelerate the maturity of
the Sub-loan, upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its oblig-
ations under its Sub-loan Agreement.
(b) Each Participating Entity will exercise its rights in rela-
tion to each Investment Plan in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank, the Borrower and the Participating Entity;
(ii) comply with its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
7.   Whenever Banco del Estado imports fertilizers or machinery for
the Project, it will undertake to purchase them through negotiated
contracts after obtaining quotations from suppliers in at least
three countries which shall be members of the Bank (including
Switzerland).
8.   Each Participating Entity will establish and maintain a separate
account through which all amounts withdrawn from, and to be paid
into, the Project Account by such Participating Entity will flow,
such account to (i) identify each Sub-loan made by such Entity;
(ii) identify the goods financed out of each such Sub-loan; and
(iii) reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appro-
priate accounting practices, the administration of such account
and of each such Sub-loan.


﻿- 30 -
9.   Each Participating Entity will have: (i) the account referred
to in the preceding paragraph 8 for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently appliel,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
such account as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning such account and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
10. Banco Central will require in its Subsidiary Loan Agreement
with CORFO that CORFO shall, within six months from the date of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, prepare a consolidated balance sheet
reflecting the value of all assets and liabilities as required by
the Controller General of the Borrower.
11. Banco Central will require in its Subsidiary Loan Agreement
with INDAP that INDAP shall, within three months from the date
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, take measures satisfactory to the
Bank, to improve INDAP's accounting system and procedures.
12. Each Participating Entity will undertake to employ qualified
technicians to assist the Beneficiaries in the preparation of
Investment Plans and to supervise the execution thereof.
13. Participating Entities will ensure that Beneficiaries will
have additional short-term loans needed to satisfy the working
capital requirements of such Beneficiaries for the carrying out
of their Investment Plans.


﻿- 31 -
14. Participating Entities will undertake that any Sub-loan (i)
under Parts A, B or C of the Project exceeding the equivalent of
$100,000, and (ii) under Part D of the Project exceeding the
equivalent of $200,000, will be made only with the prior approval
of the Bank.
B.   Sub-loan Agreements
1.   To qualify for the granting of a Sub-loan, each applicant will
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Participating Entity that
he meets all such creditworthiness criteria as shall be reasonably
established from time to time by the Participating Entity.
2.   Sub-loans will be made on the basis of Investment Plans pre-
pared with the assistance of the technicians referred to in para-
graph 12 of Part A of this Schedule. Such Plans will demonstrate
the technical, financial (including cash flows) and economic jus-
tification of the proposed investments and, in the case of agro-
industries, the managerial soundness of the enterprises.
3.   Sub-loans will finance up to the total cost of the Investment
Plan of the small farmers referred to in Section 1.02 (h) (i) and
(ii) of this Agreement, and up to 80% of the cost of the other
Investment Plans.
4.   The outstanding principal amount of each Sub-loan will be
adjusted by the Participating Entity in the same proportion as
the modification of the Borrower's Consumer Price Index and in
accordance with the provisions of Decreto Ley 455.


﻿- 32 -
5.   The adjusted outstanding principal amount of each Sub-loan
(i) under Parts A, B and C of the Project will bear interest at
an annual rate of no less than 6% and no more than 8%; and (ii)
under Part D of the Project will bear interest at an annual rate
of no less than 8% and no more than 12%; provided, however, that
any such interest rate shall not exceed by more than 3.5 percen-
tage points the interest charged by Banco Central on the corres-
ponding portion of the Subsidiary Loan used to refinance such
Sub-loan.
6.   Each Sub-loan will be denominated in local currency and will
be repaid over a period commensurate with the Beneficiary's esti-
mated net income arising from the carrying out of his Investment
Plan, including an appropriate grace period, provided that such
periods will not exceed the following terms:
Maximum          Maximum
Sub-loan            Grace Period   Repayment Period    Total
(Part of the Project)       (years)          (years)       (years)
Part A(i)                5                 6             11
Part A(ii)               5                 7             12
Parts B and C            5                10             15
Part D                   3                 8             11
7.   Purchase of breeding stock included in the Investment Plans
to be financed by Sub-loans under Part A of the Project, will not,
on the average, exceed the equivalent of 30% of the total cost of
such Investment Plans, and will not, in any cas*e, exceed the
equivalent of 50% of the total cost of any such Investment Plan.


