Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15750-ECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EDUCATION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
October 21, 1996
Human Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY
(as of April 1996)
Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound (LE)
US$1 = LE 3.4
LE I = US$0.29
FISCAL YEAR
Julv 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWP          Annual Work Plan
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
EEP          Education Enhancement Program
EMIS         Educational Management Information System
EU           European Union
GAEB         General Authoritv for Educational Building
IA           Implementation Agency
ICB          International Compelitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IMF          International Monetarv Fund
ITF          Interim Trust Fund
KfW          Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MOE          Ministry of Education
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NCEEE        National Center for Educational Examinations and Ev aluation
NCTL         National Center for Teaching and Leaming
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
ODA          Overseas Development Agency
OED          Operations Evaluation Department
PPMU         Program Planning and Management Unit
SF           Strategic Framework
TA           Technical Assistance
TOR          Terms of Reference
UNDP         United Nations Desvelopment Program
UNICEF       United Nations International Children's Fund
USAID        United States Agency for International Development



THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EDUCATION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
Table of Contents
1. BACKGROUND AND SECTOR ASSESSMENT ......................................... ..1
A. INTRODUCTION .1
B. SECTOR BACKGROUND & ISSUES .1
C. LESSONS LEARNED THROUGH IDA AND OTHER DONORS' INVOLVEN   IENT  .4
2. THE PROPOSED PROJECT                          .5
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES                            .5
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION                          .6
C. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT                     .9
3. PROJECT COST, FINANCING AND IIPLEMENTATION ..                              10
A. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING .10
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION .1
D. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS.                                                    13
E. PROCUREMENT .14
F. DISBURSEMENTS .15
G. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, ANDREPORTING .16
H. PROJECT OBJECTIVE CATEGORY .17
I. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT .17
J. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH .17
4. BENEFITS, RISKS AND ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT .18
A.. BENEFITS. ......................................................18
B. RISKS AND INSTITUJTIONAL SUSTAINABILITY .18
C. FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY .19
5. AGREEMENTs REACHED AND RECOMMIENDATION .21
TABLES
TABLE 3.1:   PROJECT COSTS SUMMARY
TABLE 3.2:   ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING BY COMPONENT
TABLE 3.2:   ALLOCATION OF ITF CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORY
TABLE 3.4:   ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE



THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EDUCATION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:      EDUCATION AND FINANCE STATISTICS
ANNEX 2:    ISSUES IN TEACHER COMPENSATION AND ACCOUNTABILITY
ANNEX 3:      SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND SITE SELECTION CRITERIA
ANNEX 4:      PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
ANNEX 5:      SECTORAL POLICY LETTER & STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK
ANNEX 6:    IMPROVEMENT FUND
ANNEX 7:      PROGRAM COSTS
ANNEX 8:      PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION AND ORGANIZATIONAL LINK
ANNEX 9:      MLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ANNEX 10:    ANNUAL WORK PLAN - 1997
ANNEX 11:    GOVERNORATE PROGRAM GUIDELINES
ANNEX 12:    PROCUREMENT METHODS
ANNEX 13:    DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
ANNEX 14:    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
ANNEX 15:    LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
This report is based on the findings of a joint IDA/European Union mission to Egypt in May/June 1996.
Bank mission members were: Mae Chu Chang (Senior General Educator, MNSHD, Task Manager),
Vasilios Demetriou (Senior Implementation Specialist, MNSHD), Sue Bernman (Senior General
Educator, EMTHR), Willem  Van Eeghen (Senior Economist, MNAVP), Lant Pritchett (Senior
Economist, PRDPH), Takatoshi Kamezawa (Education Specialist, MNSHD), and Mahmoud Gemal El
Din (MN2EG). European Union mission members were: Henrik Osterbv, (Desk Officer), Samuel
McClelland (Educator), Sabine Keinath (Economist) and Khadija Khoudari (WID Specialist). Technical
assistance was provided by: Jan Visser (UNESCO) William Darnell, Doug Adkins, Gustav Brest van
Kempen, and Robert Altman (Consultants). Substantial technical contribution was made by Jon Avins
(MNSHD) throughout project design and processing. The report was put together by Iqbal Kaur
(MNSHD). Peer Reviewers were: Marlaine Lockheed (HDD), Jamil Salmi (LA2HR), Christopher Shaw
(EA1HR), and Marshall Smith (External Reviewer, U.S. Department of Education). The responsible
Manager is Jacques Baudouy (MNSHD) and the Department Director is Inder Sud (MN2).



THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EDUCATION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower: The Arab Republic of Egypt
Implementing Agency: Ministrv of Education
Beneficiaries: Ministrv of Education, participating Govemorates, schools,
teachers, and school children
Poverty Category: Not Applicable
Credit Amount: SDR 51.5 million (US$75 million equivalent)
Terms: Standard ITF terms with 35 year maturitv
Commitment Charge: Standard (a variable rate betwveen 0 and 0.5%  of the
undisbursed credit balance)
Project Description: The project will assist the Govemment to implement a
sectoral reform program intended to: (a) improve coverage,
particularlv for girls, by increasing demand for girls
education and by locating schools at sites identified by a
needs-based school mapping exercise; (b) enhance the
qualiht of student leaming through redesign and reform of
pre- and in-service teacher training, introduction of
appropriate technologies to improve masterv of basic as
well as critical thinking skills, and support for slow
leamers; and (c) increase efficiencv of the education
system through cost savings in the construction program,
capacitv building at central and Govemorate levels, and
through instituting decision making processes based on
technical criteria and objective data.
Financing Plan: ITF               US$ 75 million        9%
European Union   US$125 million       15%
Govemment        US$635 million       76%
ToTAL  i                     a- m  iillion  10-0%o
Economic Rate of Return: N/A
Environmental Rating: "C"
MOMD No: Report No. P-6955-EGT
Project Identification Number: 5169
Vice President: Mr. Kemal Dervi§, MNA
Director: Mr. Inder Sud, MN2
Manager: Mr. Jacques Baudouy, MNSHD
Task Manager: Ms. Mae Chu Chang, Sr. General Educator, MNSHD



p



THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EDUCATION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
1.   BACKGROUND AND SECTOR ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1   The Government's major priorities for education, as identified in Mubarak's
National Project (October 1995), are: (a) to ensure universal access to basic education,
with an emphasis on girls; and (b) to significantly upgrade the quality of education at all
levels so that students can obtain the skills needed to compete in the global economy.
Reform of compulsory education, including sector management at the central level and
involvement of local levels in planning and implementation of initiatives to change the
process of schooling, is the Government's most urgent priority in education. Changes in
compulsory education represent the first phase of the Government's plans for
comprehensive reform of the education system.
1.2   A window of opportunity is now open for Egypt to achieve greater integration
into the world economy and thus to reap many of the benefits of world trade. The
proposed European Union-Egypt free trade agreement will enhance this opportunity,
thus making it all the more important for Egypt to improve its competitiveness vis-a-vis
the EU's other trading partners. In support of this goal and of private-sector growth, the
Government has made developing the country's human resources a top national priority.
B. SECTOR BACKGROUND & ISSUES
Access - Supply & Demand Factors
1.3   Through the first half of the 1990s the primary and preparatory education system
expanded by over 170,000 students, or nine percent, per year. Mainly through an
aggressive investment program, the Government has made impressive achievements in
providing school places. By the 1995 school year, the boys gross enrollment rate in
primary education (including students in the Al-Azhar religious system) had reached 107
percent, with the girls rate at 99 percent. Gross enrollment includes primary students
beyond primary school age: six percent of boys and five percent of girls enrolled in the
primary stage are of preparatory school age. Net enrollment in preparatory education is
significantly lower for both groups: 73 percent of boys and 64 percent of girls are
enrolled'. Gender disparity is most pronounced at the preparatory stage, where gross
enrollment was 99 and 81 percent, respectively, for boys and girls, and at all levels of
Net enrollment is the ratio of students ages 6-11 for primary and 12-14 for preparatory over the
same population cohort.



2                                         Egypt: Education Enhancement Program
basic education in poor rural areas. In Assyuit, Beni-Suef and Minya girls account for
under 40 percent of both primary and preparatory students (see Annex 1).
1.4   The Government is attempting to meet the objectives of providing universal
access to, and eliminating all multiple shift schools in, basic education through a capital
construction program intended to provide different types of school buildings in different
areas, depending on local need. The construction program tripled education's share of
Government investment, from six percent in 1991 to eighteen percent in 1996.
Evaluation of USAID-funded school construction in the 1980s showed that enrollment
grew faster, as compared to a control group, in areas where construction was carried out.2
1.5   However, the construction program has failed thus far to take into account the
obstacles to parental demand for girls education in culturally conservative areas. Studies
show that various factors impede girls education in Egypt. Lack of schools within safe
walking distance was cited as a prime determinant. Other factors include corporal
punishment by teachers, the presence of male teachers and the absence of sanitary
facilities. In addition, girls' responsibility to help with domestic chores, the possibility of
paid labor, the low educational level of parents, fathers' desire to marry daughters off at
an early age, and large families where boys take precedence in receiving an education all
depress girls' access to education.
Quality - Instruction & Learning
1.6   While effort and accomplishment in providing access to education have been
substantial, the quality of teaching and of learning outcomes throughout the system is
low. A 1994 UNICEF survey suggests that there has been a decline in the acquisition of
basic literacy skills since the late 1980s, and that attainment of mathematical skills is
worse. In academic year 1995/96, 5 percent of girls and 8 percent of boys were repeaters
(see Annex 1); these rates however increase at the final grade of the primary stage to 9
and 13 percent respectively. The increase in repetition rates in the final year of primary is
an indication that many students face substantial difficulties in qualifying for transition to
the preparatory level. Repetition rates increase further in the first year of the preparatory
level, to 12 percent for girls and 14 percent for boys. This indicates that among students
who do qualify for the transition to the preparatory level, many are not prepared for the
material in the first year. Repetition for the preparatory stage as a whole was 10 percent
for girls and 12 percent for boys, with proportions similar to these in the final year. High
repetition rates in basic education contribute to both low completion rates and
overcrowded classrooms.
1.7   High repeater rates and low achievement are due to three principal causes: poor
learning conditions in overcrowded classrooms, inadequate teaching skills, and a lack of
focus throughout the system on student learning. Two thirds of basic education schools
operate double or triple shifts. Students lose five hours a week of instructional time in
2   Fourth Annual Report of the Study of USAID Contributions to the E2vptian Basic Education
Program; Robinson, Makary and Rugh for Creative Associates International; 1987



Egypt: Education Enhancement Program                                           3
multiple shift schools, for a total of 170 fewer hours a year in core subjects than students
in full day sessions. They also lose classes and activities in art, music, speech and current
events.
1.8    Regardless of single or multiple shifts, schools generally suffer from low quality
teaching. This is in part due to low teacher quality and motivation. In 1994/95 only 7
percent of primary teachers had a university degree in education, although 80 percent had
a secondary or post-secondary education degree. At the preparatory stage, 72 percent of
all teachers had an education degree, including 63 percent at the university level. The
pre-service teacher training curriculum at the post-secondary level emphasizes theory
rather than practice, and includes little subject-specific training. Although the curriculum
focuses on pedagogy, it does not emphasize interactive learning. This reinforces the
focus of basic education teaching on rote memorization of textbook materials regardless
of students' comprehension of the content.
1.9   Financial support for in-service training by the central Ministry is low, and
resources at the Governorate level for this purpose are virtually unavailable. The entire
in-service training materials budget in Giza Governorate for the 1995/96 school year was
less than US$1,000. In addition, trainers are themselves untrained and are selected on
the basis of seniority rather than qualifications and competence. They are responsible for
both evaluation and advice to teachers, creating a conflict of interest which results in
teachers preferring to avoid trainers rather than make use of them.
1.10  Formal teacher salaries are low, with base pay rates of about LE 80 to 400 a
month depending on seniority. The upper end of this range is less than half of what is
required to support an average family. Nearly all teachers hold second jobs, many in
private tutoring. The market for private tutoring is reportedly huge: an estimated LE 7
billion per year is spent by Egyptian households, roughly equal to total public education
expenditures, and good teachers can earn ten times their government salary in tutoring
fees. This presents teachers with an important incentive to place more effort on private
lessons than on their classroom duties. Sixty-three percent of preparatory students
surveyed by the MOE stated that they take private lessons to supplement classroom
teaching. Tutoring costs per child amount to approximately 6 percent of average
household expenditure. However, while tutoring increases the chance of completing
primary education, it does not significantly improve the acquisition of basic literacy
skills.
1.11  Given budgetary constraints and civil service regulations, the scope for increasing
teacher salaries is limited. Even if it were possible to increase teacher salaries by 50
percent, it is unlikely that this would cause teaching quality to increase or private tutoring
to decline (See Annex 2).
System Efficiency & Focus
1.12  Resource use efficiency is poor in all aspects of the sector: (a) school designs
have costs 5 to 20 percent over efficient construction and space utilization standards; (b)
approximately two teachers are employed per class, but classes are taught by one teacher;



4                                     Egypt: Education Enhancement Program
(c) the non-teaching staff ratio is high (0.85:1, as compared to 0.58:1 in OECD
countries); and (d) teacher contact hours are short.
1.13  The system's focus on the enforcement of rules and regulations, rather than on
improving student learning, represents a significant factor impeding acquisition of basic
skills. Teachers do not organize their work according to their students' learning needs but
rather in accordance with national directives on curriculum and lesson planning. This
reinforces mechanistic teaching and rote learning. Local administrators follow directives
from above and have little scope for initiative in response to identified local needs. The
MOE is a highly compartmentalized bureaucracy with offices in each Governorate which
mirror the organizational arrangements of the center and a number of semi-autonomous
national agencies (e.g. the General Authority for Educational Buildings (GAEB), the
Center for Curriculum and Instructional Materials Development (CCIMD) and the
National Center for Educational Examinations and Evaluations (NCEEE)). The central
Ministry offices have difficulty in coordinating the work of these various bodies. While
a number of agencies outside the central Ministry function well, they are often neither
integrated into its activities nor with each other, impeding their effectiveness in
undertaking initiatives to improve educational processes. It is therefore necessary to shift
the system's focus towards student learning, and away from bureaucratic processes and
strict conformity with guidelines.
C. LESSONS LEARNED THROUGH IDA AND OTHER DONORS' INVOLVEMENT
1. 14 Egypt has benefited from significant financial and technical support for the
education sector from several donors, in particular from USAID through the Basic
Education Program (1981-1994). This program was successful in constructing and
equipping schools and providing instructional materials. However, the Government
failed to maintain the schools, a problem corrected in 1993 with a substantial increase in
the maintenance budget and implementation of an ambitious maintenance program
(Annex 3). The project also supported institutional and staff development of the CCIMD
as well as the development of an Educational Management Information System (EMIS).
The EMIS has been infrequently used for planning and decision making, contrary to
original plans. The project showed that establishing or supporting semi-autonomous
agencies without ensuring substantial integration with MOE activities is likely to lead to
marginalization and limited effectiveness of agencies in carrying out their intended
purposes.
1.15 In 1992, UNICEF helped to establish a few multi-grade community schools in
rural Egypt, particularly in Assiut, Sohag and Qena. The community schools were
limited in number with the objective of reaching only about 100 schools in 1996. These
schools were effective in reaching unserved rural girls and boys, but the positive lessons
learned have not been transferred to the Government system. The German KfW is
involved in a project to construct primary schools in rural areas with a goal of increasing
girls enrollment. The key lesson learned from various donors' involvement is the
difficulty of spreading positive innovations throughout the regular system without fully
integrating activities with the public system from the beginning.



Egypt: Education Enhancement Program                                       5
1.16  In the 1970s, three IDA projects focused on training skilled workers for the
industrial and construction sectors, teacher training and upgrading university staff.
Subsequent IBRD loans (approved in 1983 and 1985) provided vocational training for
the industrial, construction and electricity sectors. Both projects received "satisfactory"
OED ratings. An ongoing Engineering and Technical Education Project (Ln.3137) is
upgrading university programs and technical teacher education.  IDA involvement
recommenced in 1993 with approval of the Basic Education Improvement Project
(Cr.2476), the objectives of which were to expand access and improve both in-service
training and the EMIS. The project is also funded by UJNDP grants (US$700,000) for
preliminary implementation activities. Both ongoing projects (Ln.3137 and Cr.2476)
initially implemented slowly. Implementation has since accelerated considerably and
both have "satisfactory" Development Objective ratings in the latest supervision reports.
Delays were due mainly to parliamentary ratification, as well as compliance with IDA
procurement and disbursement rules for civil works and equipment. Lessons of
experience from these projects indicate that counterpart staff training in IDA
procurement guidelines and procedures, or harmonization of IDA and Govemment
procedures is necessary, as well as adequate funding for start-up activities critical to
project effectiveness.  IDA has reviewed the Government's present procurement
procedures and found them to be consistent with its requirements.
2.   THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1   The objectives of the proposed project are to enhance the Ministry's ability to
achieve its major long-term goals with respect to improving: (a) coverage, particularly
for girls; (b) the quality of student learning; and (c) the efficiency of the education
system. The project supports a five-year time slice (1997-2001) of the Government's
long-term reform program for compulsory education. A series of operations over 10 to
15 years is envisioned to pursue the goals of the Education Enhancement Program (EEP).
2.2   Outcome Indicators. Achievement of the project objectives would be measured
by the following five-year outcome indicators (paragraph 3.14 and Annex 4): (a)
Placement of new schools, based on school mapping and community surveys, has
enabled both increased enrollment and decreased overcrowding; (b) Girls' enrollment has
increased significantly in Governorates in which girls are currently underserved; (c) In
Governorates participating in the project in years 1 and 2, childrens' basic skills have
increased; (d) In Governorates participating in the project in years 1 and 2, childrens'
critical thinking skills have increased; (e) Policy decisions relating to access and equity,
improvement of quality, and system efficiency, at the national and Governorate levels in
participating Governorates, are based on data, analysis, and objective criteria, and (f)
Decisions relating to access and equity, improvement of quality, and system efficiency,
have been effectively implemented in a coordinated manner (both horizontally and
vertically) at both the national and Governorate levels.



6                                      Egypt: Education Enhancement Program
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.3   The Ministry of Education together with IDA as Administrator of the Interim
Trust Fund and the EU have agreed that a broad and long-term program approach, as
opposed to a narrowly defined project with rigidly specified activities, is the most
appropriate instrument to achieve the Government's goals in compulsory education
because it will afford the flexibility needed to respond to evolving requirements of
educational change at the central and local levels. To this end, the Government developed
a long-term Strategic Framework which defines the EEP's 13 objectives and the
interventions it will pursue to achieve these goals. The Strategic Framework will guide
planning and activities over the 15 to 20 year life of the multiple-phase program. It is
attached to the Government's Letter of Sectoral Policy (Annex 5), which states that the
Government is committed to providing all necessary financial and institutional support
needed to pursue the objectives contained in the Strategic Framework through the
interventions which it contains. Core program activities will be determined each year
through an iterative process and will be included in an Annual Work Plan (para. 3.4) to
be developed by a Planning, Programming and Monitoring Unit (PPMU).
2.4   Most interventions will be initially conducted on a pilot basis. Sharqia and
Fayoum Governorates would participate in the first year with locally designed versions
of central initiatives, and an additional two Governorates would participate in the second
year. In years three and four more Governorates are expected to participate; the number
will depend on their capacity and readiness to do so. With two operations over ten years
it is expected that all Governorates will be covered. It is anticipated that 15 to 20 years
will be necessary to achieve the Government's long-term reform goals outlined in the
Strategic Framework for the entire country. The Strategic Framework contains the
objectives and interventions described below.
2.5   Improving access.   The goals of this program area are to maintain the high
enrollment rate for boys and remove the gender disparities in girls enrollment in basic
education. Continuing a successful Government construction program which has
significantly improved enrollment, the proposed project will focus on improving
enrollments in underserved areas through targeting school construction (see Annex 3).
The needs-based construction program will be targeted using a school mapping exercise
to select sites for school construction (nearly completed by GAEB during project
preparation) which incorporates population and enrollment densities.  Previously,
nominations for school construction sites were forwarded to GAEB by the Governorates,
a process which allowed criteria other than student needs to be paramount in site
selection. Under the new system, GAEB will forward to each Governorate a menu of
sites for school construction based on agreed site selection criteria. Governorates will use
community preference surveys to choose from this menu (surveys would be conducted
by consulting firms; implementation would start prior to effectiveness). Strategies to
increase parental demand for girls education identified in existing research (para. 1.5)
would be proposed for adoption in culturally conservative areas with low levels of girls



Egypt: Education Enhancement Program                                            7
enrollment, as well as additional measures identified through the community preference
survey.  Studies to identify measures to provide education to previously unserved
populations such as the handicapped and out-of-school girls up to the age of 14 will also
be conducted.
2.6 Improving the Oualitv of Student Performance. The goals of this program area
are to significantly increase students' achievement of basic skills and help improve their
critical thinking skills in those Governorates participating in the EEP. The magnitude of
increase in attainment of these skills by the end of the project will be measured against
early baseline studies of both domains, which will be designed by the end of 1996.
National success with these goals can be expected in ten to fifteen years as
implementation of most interventions which drive their achievement will require at least
two five-year project cycles. There are four specific objectives in this program area: (i)
reduce wastage (repetition and dropout); (ii) improve the quality of teaching and
learning; (iii) improve the quality of the pre-service training program; and (iv) build the
capacity of implementing agencies key to this program area. These objectives are
interlinked: building implementing agencies' capacity will be key to the success of the
whole quality program, while improving training will lead to improvements in teaching
and learning, which will in turn reduce repetition and dropouts.
2.7    Reducing wastage will be accomplished through two approaches: reducing class
size (frequently as high as 60-70) and multiple shifts through school construction, to be
pursued starting in the first year of the program, and provision of support to students with
moderate leaming difficulties (i.e. those who fall behind in one or more subjects). The
latter approach will be pursued through training a cadre of learning support teachers to
work with these students.3 This has been a cost-effective means in other countries of
preventing minor student failure from precipitating discouragement, behavior problems,
and dropping out. It will require prior reform of the pre-service and in-service teacher
training programs and therefore cannot be started in the first year of the program.
2.8   Improving the quality of teaching and learning would be achieved through five
approaches designed to facilitate tailoring teaching to students' learning needs: (i)
reforming in-service teacher training; (ii) ensuring effective use in schools and
classrooms of the Government's investment in technology and distance learning; (iii)
instituting student learning assessments to facilitate accountability of teachers, principals
and others throughout the sector; (iv) introducing quality assurance systems for
experienced teachers; and (v) improving the quality of pre-service teacher training
programs. Quality assurance systems for experienced teachers would be pursued through
increasing the validity of annual teacher performance evaluations and creating merit-
based promotion criteria. A system of regular school inspections based on objective
criteria to pinpoint the strengths and weaknesses of individual schools would be
developed as a quality assurance system for schools. The in-service training reform, with
the greatest potential impact on the quality of learning, would institute a distance training
3   The phrase "moderate leaniing difficulties" is at times used to refer to handicapped students; that is
not the case here.



8                                      Egypt: Education Enhancement Program
system with master teachers acting as facilitators in locally based learning centers, and
would replace the current minimal and ritualistic cascade-based in-service training
system. The aim of the system would be to create continuous and collegial cooperation
among teachers to improve practice, and to change the teaching and learning culture of
the school by training its staff as a group in order to develop their capacity to solve
pedagogical problems.
2.9   Interventions to improve the quality of pre-service programs focus on inputs
(including the quality of students who enter these programs), process, and outputs.
Incentives would be created for training institutions to address specific problems in their
programs. Pre-service institutions which participate in a quality assessment (to be based
on criteria and indicators created by a joint domestic and foreign task force) would be
eligible to apply for grants of up to one million dollars from an Improvement Fund to be
administered by the PPMU (see Annex 6). Grants would be awarded on a competitive
basis. Grant applications would respond to findings of the institutional quality assessment
with strategies to remedy the major weaknesses which it identifies. This scheme would
be assessed through independent, national credentialling examinations for graduates of
participating institutions.
2.10 Improving System Efficienc . The goals of this program area are to improve
system efficiency through improving the management of sector resources and to enable
improvements in system effectiveness through enhancing sector planning, decision
making and management.
2.11  Reform  of the decision-making process will be a crucial element for
strengthening system effectiveness and efficiency. This process is currently both highly
centralized and susceptible to arbitrary intervention at each successive level of authority.
In order to introduce a more broadly based approach founded on technical analysis and
objective data, the Ministry of Education has established the PPMU, which reports
directly to the Minister's Office (para. 3.4). The PPMU will consist of 16 full time
professional staff as well as a complement of support staff. The Director, Deputy
Director and two staff are in place; four Section Heads will be appointed prior to
negotiations. In order to plan objectives and activities for each area of the EEP, the
PPM[J engaged expert panels with membership from the Government, the private sector
and international technical experts. A similar process will take place for the development
of Governorate plans at the local level, with the participation of NGOs, parents, teachers
and headmasters. Institutionalization of this process would be a major project benefit.
2.12  The innovative and comprehensive nature of the EEP would require an intensive
process of capacity building, particularly in participatory planning and management,
monitoring and evaluation, and in areas related to improvement of pedagogy. The PPMU
will work with sector agencies to increase capacity in these areas. A capacity building
fund for training, studies, national and foreign technical assistance, study visits and other
capacity building measures would be established to facilitate this process. The PPMU
would identify capacity building needs which emerge in the course of implementation, as
well as appropriate measures to address these needs, and would assist implementing



Egypt: Education Enhancement Program                                       9
agencies to develop capacity building proposals. Continuous self assessment of capacity
building needs would be part of the management task of each Implementing Agency,
including the PPMU itself.
2.13  Interventions to build the capacity of implementing agencies would initially
emphasize strengthening various MOE departments (and other government education
agencies) at both the central and Governorate levels to enable them to better perform
program responsibilities. Governorate level agencies for example would have primary
management responsibility for implementing the in-service and school inspection
reforms, both of which involve restructuring the currently ineffective Inspectorate Corps.
Central agencies would be responsible for developing assessments of student learning
and for providing a model for merit-based assessments for teacher evaluation and
promotion, among other substantial activities. Improving the capacity to perform these
tasks would itself be a key project contribution.
2.14  Alternative building designs were developed during project preparation by
technical panels described above. The least-cost design will be implemented and will
result in projected cost savings of approximately US$70 million per year compared to the
original construction plan. With regard to the use of human resources, studies on means
to link teacher compensation and incentives to performance in order to increase
accountability will be conducted (Annex 2). These studies would be conducted initially
in the pilot Governorates. Results would be used as input for policy recommendations.
C. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
2.15  The proposed project is fully consistent with the CAS recommendation to support
human resources development (Report Number P-6263-EGT, discussed by the Board on
March 24, 1994). The project will pursue this goal by supporting the Government's
efforts to implement its national education program at an ambitious but politically
feasible pace.
2.16  IDA involvement in this initiative is the result of high-level policy discussions
held with the Government in August 1995, as well as the EU's support for sectoral
reform in basic education as part of its cooperation with Mediterranean countries. IDA
and the EU have worked together closely in joint missions and discussions with the
Government, and plan to continue this cooperation throughout the life of the program.
IDA has also been asked by the donor community to take the lead in the education sector
to facilitate coordinated support to the Government. Furthermore, this project represents
the first in a potential series of policy-related interventions in various areas of the
Egyptian education sector. Providing successful assistance to the Government in its
efforts to improve the coverage, quality and efficiency of basic education would facilitate
dialogue on other priority issues in the sector: higher education, general secondary
education, vocational training and education financing. IDA will pursue a dialogue with
the Government on these issues in tandem with the implementation of this operation for
basic education.



i0                                        Egypt: Education Enhancement Program
2.17  IDA's experience in sectoral analysis and institution building is well suited to the
Government's present needs for improving sector performance in management and
decision making, and will contribute to strengthening MOE's ability to perform policy
planning and coordination functions. IDA's broad sectoral perspective would facilitate
the continuous refinement of a basic education strategy through collaboration on AWPs
for project implementation.
3.   PROJECT COST, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
3.1    Total project costs, which support core activities of the EEP, are estimated at LE
3.35 billion or US$835.52 million equivalent with a foreign exchange component of
US$270.12 million or about 32 percent of total program costs. Base cost estimates were
calculated using June 1996 prices. Physical contingencies represent 9 percent of base
costs, and price contingencies 19 percent of base costs.4 Detailed project costs are shown
in Annex 7.
Table 3.1: Project Costs Summary
(in US$ Million)
L                              o u         X       X . a      E x s       C t
Access and Equity             234.6      114.7      349.4       33          53
Qualitv of Student Performance  190.7     92.3      283.9       33          43
Svstem Efficiencv               8.2       15.2       23.4       65          4
Total Baseline Costs       433.6      222.2     655.7        34        100
Phvsical Contingencies      37.1       20.2      57.3        35          9
Price Contingencies         94.7       27.7      122.5       23         19
3.2   Financing. ITF funds would be disbursed against the core program activities of
the EEP.  The EU  would support the entire program  through tranche release
disbursements against Guiding Criteria and Indicators agreed with the Government. The
proposed ITF credit of SDR 51.5 million, (US$75 million equivalent) would finance
three program components: Access and Equity, Quality of Student Performance and
System Efficiency, as shown in Table 3.1 above.  The EU is expected to contribute
US$125 million in co-financing. The Government's expenditure for EEP would be
maintained at its present level, which would amount to US$10.9 billion over the project's
five-year span, of which US$635.5 million would support core activities of the EEP.
ITF would support priority items within the core program not funded by the
Price contingencies were derived from expected annual price increases as follows: foreign: 2.3
percent in 1997 and 1998, 2.4 percent in 1999 and 2000, and 2.5 percent in 2001; local: 8 percent in
1997, 7.5 percent in 1998, 9.1 percent in 2000, and 9.3 percent in 2001.



Egypt: Education Enhancement Program                                     11
Government. EU funds are not earmarked for specific items and would be used to
finance all remaining items in the AWP, including consultant services for the first year.
Table 3.2: Estimated Project Costs and Financing By Component
(in US$ Million)
___-_:=_.___-_-_-_|_-            Total   | Govt.    -   ITF  L |E.Uni
Access and Equity               448.5     406.4     17.5     24.6
Qualitv of Student Performance  359.0    229.1      51.6     78.3
System Efficiencv                28.0        -       5.9     22.1
TOTAL PROGIM COST               835.5     635.5    75.0    125.0
Above figures include contingencies.
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION
3.3   The program will be implemented over a five-year period beginning in January
1997. ITF disbursement would begin about June 30, 1997; the closing date would be
December 31, 2002. The Government's Sectoral Policy Letter, Organizational Charts and
Implementation Schedule are presented in Annexes 5, 8 and 9. The following is a
summary of the implementation arrangements.
3.4   Planning & Programming. The PPMU, which reports directly to the Minister of
Education (para. 2.11), will be responsible for programming, coordinating and
monitoring implementation. It will work with the Ministry, Governorates and donors to
identify a comprehensive program of activities to be defined each year in an AWP and to
monitor its implementation. The AWP would incorporate priority activities needed to
achieve interventions identified in the Strategic Framework. Proposals from
Governorate-level PPMU (GPPMU) counterpart units would be discussed with the MOE
as part of the planning process for each AWP and would ensure that interventions are
consistent with local needs.
3.5   AWPs would be developed by the Government on the basis of progress in the
implementation of the program, development of the education system, and priorities and
issues identified through self-monitoring indicators used by each Implementing Agency
(see para. 3.13). These indicators would allow contemporaneous and continuous
identification of problems. This program approach would allow the flexibility needed in
a large and complex sector, where activities will need to evolve each year based on
continuous feedback. It would also assist the Government to identify, plan and carry out
complementary activities by providing a coherent framework for the program as a whole.
3.6  IDA and other donors would provide assistance in preparing AWPs as needed and
upon the Government's request. While formal IDA approval of AWPs would not be
necessary, review and discussion of draft AWPs by IDA, the ITF administrator, would
take place each year, and would constitute a key area of IDA assistance to the
Government. IDA review of draft AWPs would focus on three factors: (i) overall
internal coherence of the Plan among its various components; (ii) consistency with the



12                                     Egypt: Education Enhancement Program
past year's plan, particularly whether the Plan reflects progress made in the previous year
by including activities which may be identified as necessary to achieve Strategic
Framework interventions or dropping activities or components which have proven
infeasible; and (iii) a donor/Government financing plan to ensure that all program
activities are fully funded.
3.7   Implementation. Program activities would be implemented by various agencies
within and outside the Government. Implementing Agencies (lAs) would include
departments of the MOE, educational Centers or Institutes such as the NCEEE, the
CCIMD and the GAEB, Universities and Faculties of Education, In-Service Training
Institutes, NGOs and consulting firms. During the development of AWPs at the central
and Governorate level, lAs would be identified for each activity or group of tasks. In
some cases, the PPMU will identify an IA after definition of the AWP (usually in the
case of activities to be undertaken by consulting firms). Implementing Agencies would
operate under contract (in the case of NGOs and private firms) or under a formal and
binding agreement (in the case of Government entities) with the PPMU. These contracts
or agreements would include Terms of Reference, Performance Indicators and
requirements for progress reporting.
3.8   Coordination. Overall management of the program would be carried out by the
PPMU. The unit will have direct linkages with Governorate level officials, university
Faculties of Education and autonomous education entities such as GAEB, CCIMD, and
NCEEE. The PPMU coordinated the development of the Strategic Framework, the first
year AWP (Annex 10), and performance indicators. It will be responsible for
coordinating development of future AWPs and indicators.
3.9   The PPMU will ensure coherence between local and central activities, provide
technical assistance to implementing agencies, and provide feedback for program
implementation. The Unit will also undertake all reporting activities for both donor
supervision and government requirements. The Unit's staff will be supported, as needed,
by technical panels composed of Egyptian and international experts from the public and
private sectors. An Operations Manual for the PPMU, outlining procedures for all areas
of its work and criteria for AWP design and approval, has been drafted and submitted to
IDA, the ITF administrator.
3.10 A Coordinating Committee will monitor IA performance and serve as a forum to
ensure that duplication of activities is avoided and that obstacles to implementation are
removed. The Committee will be chaired by the PPMU Director. Its membership will
include those lAs with responsibility for major portions of the EEP, and representatives
of participating Governorates as well as relevant Central Ministries. Oversight will be
facilitated by the Monitoring Section of the PPMU, which will use feedback from
program performance indicators (para. 3.13-3.15) tracked through the Computerized
Management Information System, which provides real time monitoring of progress
indicators. The Monitoring Section at the central or Governorate level will produce
quarterly "exception reports" to identify problems in implementation. The Coordinating



Egypt: Education Enhancement Program                                     13
Committee will intercede in those cases where implementation problems cannot be
solved by the IA itself.
3.11 Governorate PPMUs. Management of the program at the Governorate level
would be carried out by small Govemorate PPMU counterpart units (the first will be
established in a pilot Governorate by October 1996). These units will direct planning
and implementation of local level program activities in response to specific needs in the
community (Annex 11). This process will require close cooperation with mudirriya
(Governorate level) and idarra (district level) education officials to ensure that activities
are not duplicated. Two committees would be established at the Governorate level for
this purpose. A Supreme Consultative Committee, chaired by the Undersecretary of
Education for the mudirriya, would provide guidance and supervision for planning and
implementation of local program activities. A Local Advisory Body, with broad
representation from public, NGO, and private sector bodies, would engender community
support. It would also draw on the experience of public and private social service
agencies and promote coordination with them when appropriate.
3.12 Supervision. The EU will place one staff member in Cairo throughout the life of
the project to facilitate implementation. There would be two joint IDA-EU supervision
missions, no later than May 30 and November 30 each year. The second supervision
mission of each year would review development of the next year's AWP and the
Government's Public Investment Program for education, including a breakdown of
investment by level of education. The joint supervision team would focus on: (a) the
consistency of activities in each component and sub-project with agreements reached at
appraisal; (b) performance of the implementing groups and institutions; (c) assessment of
emerging needs for adjustments to project parameters; (d) progress of project
implementation; and (e) progress of institutional reforms. The joint supervision tearn
would base supervision on the Government's monitoring reports and annual evaluation of
project activities against input, process and output indicators (Annex 4). In addition,
supervision missions would review project expenditures and availability of financial
resources, as well as conduct discussions with MOE officials and the IDA/EU Resident
Missions. A mid-term review would be conducted in September 1999.
D. PERFORMANCE NDICATORS
3.13  Three separate sets of performance indicators would be used for monitoring and
evaluation. The first is a set of activity-specific indicators accompanying the AWP. The
second set focuses on annual output targets, and the third on five-year output targets. In
order to build monitoring and evaluation capacity in the PPMU as well as Governorate
level PPMUs, training will be provided to staff in these units during the first year of their
operation in the use of the indicator sets.
3.14  To simplify the monitoring process, the activity-specific indicator set (which is
contained in the "Implementation Plan and Performance Indicators", Annex 4) consists
of detailed yes/no questions which will allow the PPMU to trace whether required inputs
are in place, process steps completed and planned outputs achieved for individual



14                                     Egypt: Education Enhancement Program
activities in the AWP. Each of the Implementing Agencies will use these indicators to
monitor their respective activities and report to the PPMU. This will provide a fast
indication to all local bodies when problems or bottlenecks arise, allowing for quick
adjustment to circumstances. A new set of activity-specific indicators will be developed
each year as part of the AWP planning process.
3.15  As the detailed set of task specific indicators would not provide useful aggregate
information concerning the program's success in meeting its overall yearly targets, a set
of six annual output indicators which refer to the project's long term Development
Objectives was developed. These indicators measure the output of logical groupings of
activities contained in the AWP to show progress toward annual and long-term
objectives. As with the detailed performance indicators for individual activities, a new
set of annual output indicators would be developed each year as part of the AWP
preparation process. These indicators will also be used by the PPMU as a framework for
preparing implementation reports for review by IDA-EU supervision missions.
3.16  A third set of indicators will be used at the end of the project to evaluate progress
in achieving its five-year targets. Rather than measuring progress in creating specific
outputs or combinations of outputs as do the first two sets of indicators, the Five-Year
Performance Indicators measure outcomes or results of project activities. Outcomes will
be measured against baseline data in critical areas such as student (particularly girls)
enrollments, performance in basic skills, and effective decision making and
implementation of program activities at the national and local levels.
E. PROCUREMENT
3.17  Procurement arrangements for works, goods and services to be financed under the
proposed credit and contract review requirements are summarized in Annex 12. The
PPMU, and the GPPMUs would be responsible for procuring goods and services relating
to their components, and GAEB would be responsible for procuring related civil works.
The existing MOE Project Implementation Unit, because of its extensive experience with
ITF-financed projects, would provide technical assistance to the PPMIU. The PPMU
would be responsible for overall monitoring of the procurement process and ensuring that
all works, goods, and services to be financed under the project jointly, or solely, by ITF
would be procured in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996). To expedite
procurement, the Government would establish special tender committees for civil works
and goods.
3.18  With regard to Technical Assistance (TA), qualified firms or institutions as well
as individual specialists would be invited to submit proposals for a comprehensive
package of consultant services and fellowships in accordance with the Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency (August 1981). TA would be contracted in accordance with the terms of
reference packaging and schedule agreed with IDA, the ITF administrator, during
Annual Reviews.



Egypt: Education Enhancement Program                                           15
3.19 The proceeds of the ITF Credit may only be withdrawn on account of
expenditures for goods and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied
from, countries participating in the ITF; consequently, nationals of countries that are not
Participating Countries and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall
be disqualified from bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so
specify. Only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide
services financed out the proceeds of the ITF Credit.
F. DISBURSEMENTS
3.20   The proposed credit would be disbursed in about 5.5 years over the period 1997-
2002. This is shorter than the country disbursement profile of 16 semesters. This period
is deemed feasible in view of the fact that: (a) project preparation is at an advanced level
(e.g. standard school designs and a first year AWP have been prepared); and (b) some
activities will be initiated with donor financing prior to credit effectiveness.
3.21   The proposed credit of SDR 51.5 million (US$75 million equivalent), would be
disbursed against the categories contained in the following table.
Table 3.3: Allocation of ITF Credit Disbursements by Category (in US$ Million)
Citrt - re                                                Fit anccation  N;e-age to be l d
Works                    25.2        30% of agreed unit cost per classroom for school
construction in participating Governorates
Goods                     14.4       100% of CIF for equipment, vehicles and software
100% of ex-factory cost for locally manufactured goods
85% of locally procured goods
Technical Assistance      3.5        100 % of cost for consultants' services
Pre-Service              27.1        100 % of cost
Improvement Grants
Unallocated               4.8
%~~~TAL ~~75.0__                  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _    _  _  _  _
3.22   The estimated schedule of disbursements from proceeds of the ITF Credit by
quarter is provided in Annex 12. A summary is given below.
Table 3.4: Estimated Disbursement Schedule (ITF Credit)
fiscal Year   1997        199         1 999       200         20f1        202
Annual         10.0        10.0        15 0        20.0        10.0        10.0
Cumulative     10.0       20.0        35.0        55.0        65.0        75.0
Percentage     13%0   r   27%         47%          73%         87%        100%
3.23  Special Account.  To facilitate prompt payments and disbursements from the
credit proceeds, the Government would establish, maintain and operate under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA, a Special Account (SA) in US dollars in a commercial
bank. The authorized allocation of the special account is $5 million, but the initial



16                                     Egypt: Education Enhancement Program
deposit is limited to $3 million until $10 million has been disbursed.  Separate
identifiable accounts would be kept for all project expenditures and supporting
documentation would be retained for subsequent review by World Bank Resident
Mission staff and visiting IDA supervision missions. The PPMU would provide IDA
with monthly SA statements. The SA would be replenished on a monthly basis, or when
the undisbursed balance falls below 50 percent of the authorized allocation, whichever is
sooner, upon submission by the PPMU of a replenishment request to IDA with the
necessary supporting documentation. Disbursements would be made against standard
IDA documentation. Disbursement for civil works will be made against quantities of
schools completed according to agreed criteria and unit costs during Annual Reviews.
Expenditures for this component, for goods contracts less than US$250,000, for
individual consultants' contracts less than US$50,000, for consulting firms contracts less
than US$100,000, and for Improvement Grants, would be reimbursed against Statements
of Expenditure (SOEs), for which the related documentation would be retained for
review by IDA supervision missions. The Government has agreed that the SA would be
audited in conjunction with the annual audit of project accounts. Requests for direct
payment would be subject to a minimum application size equal to about 20 percent of the
authorized allocation in the SA.
G. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, AND REPORTING
3.24 Accounts and AudIting. The Borrower is in compliance with Bank audit
reporting covenants. The Borrower will establish and maintain separate project-related
accounts at the PPMU. These accounts will be maintained in accordance with sound and
internationally recognized accounting practices in an accounting system acceptable to
IDA. The PPMU will provide interim and annual financial statements to reflect the
financial performance and position of the entity and the project. An auditor's opinion
and reports satisfactory to IDA on such statements will be provided within six of months
of the close of the fiscal year. The auditor's report will include a statement on the
adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls, the reliability of statements of
expenditures as a basis for credit disbursements, and compliance with financial
covenants. These project accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements
should provide adequate and timely information to IDA for supervision of the project.
3.25   Reporting. The PPMU would prepare AWPs in consultation with expert panels
and lAs, and forward these to IDA for discussion by no later than October 30 each year.
The PPMU would prepare semi-annual progress reports against AWNP indicators. These
reports would discuss problems encountered, solutions adopted, and modifications to the
AWP. In addition to these reporting tasks, the PPMU would continually track program
implementation progress through a computerized monitoring system containing the
detailed input, process and output indicators for each AWP activity. This would allow
identification of problems contemporaneously with their appearance, and thereby enable
identification of solutions in a matter of weeks.
3.26  The PPMU would prepare a detailed mid-term report and submit it to IDA/EU
by the end of September 1999 to serve as the basis for the mid-term review, which IDA,



Egypt: Educatdon Enhancement Program                                   1J7
the EU and the Borrower will conduct by December 31, 1999. The PPMU would also
prepare an Implementation Completion Report within three months of the Closing Date
of the credit. During negotiations, assurances will be sought from the Government on all
reporting requirements in addition to the following arrangements for project monitoring
and reporting: the PPMU acting in close consultation with GPPMUs and lAs, would
provide on a semi-annual basis consolidated reports (comprising, inter alia, the reports of
GPPMUs and Governorate and other Implementing Agencies and the PPMU's comments
thereon) on project implementation progress covering: (a) project activities, financing
requirements and budget provisions; (b) monthly cash flow projections for the next six
month period; and (c) status of procurement of works, goods, consulting services,
training, and improvement grants. Any major variance from the budget would be
explained and corrective measures proposed. These reports would be submitted to IDA
within one month of the end of the relevant semester, and would provide the basis for
monitoring project progress and for discussions at the formal joint bi-annual reviews by
IDA and EU. These reviews would be conducted no later than May 30 and November 30
each year.
H. PROJECT OBJECTIVE CATEGORY
3.27  Although poverty alleviation is not an explicit objective of this project, the
educational quality improvements resulting from the project are expected to have a
favorable impact on the poverty profile in Egypt in the long term. With respect to gender
issues, the project will improve educational opportunities for girls in rural areas, which
will lead to enhanced earning prospects for women as well as reduced fertility levels and
improved maternal and child health indicators.
1. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
3.28  The project is classified as Category "C" and no adverse environmental impact
from the proposed project is expected. Civil works design will be reviewed by IDA to
ensure that materials proposed for rehabilitation or construction are environmentally
sound. Construction contracts will specify that building activities be carried out in an
environmentally sound manner and that construction waste be disposed of properly.
J. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH
3.29  The design process for this operation has been a joint effort by the PPMU,
Egyptian technical panels, the EU and IDA. Because of this, the Government and
EU/IDA missions have been able to develop a close partnership through a participatory
process. This partnership resulted in the production of the Strategic Framework, the first
year Annual Work Plan, and project performance indicators. Interaction and partnership
will continue throughout implementation with the aim of encouraging maximum
Egyptian initiative and responsibility for the program. During implementation, the
process is intended to also involve headmasters, teachers and parents to engender at the
local level the support and ownership of the program necessary to effect the type of
systemic changes proposed in this project.



18                                      Egypt: Education Enhancement Program
4.   BENEFITS, RISKS AND ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT
A. BENEFITS
4.1   The following benefits would be realized: (a) a decision-making process based on
objective data and technical analysis would be institutionalized; (b) near universal
enrollment of boys in basic education would be maintained; (c) girls enrollment would be
increased to a level of nearly universal level in basic education; (d) student achievement
would be measurably improved in pilot governorates and nationwide improvement will
be realized in the long term; (e) a more efficient use of public funds would be obtained in
the education sector; and (f) in the long term, a more educated labor force would be
developed to meet the challenges of a competitive global economy.
B. RISKS AND INSTITUTIONAL SUSTAINABILITY
4.2   Certain characteristics of the Egyptian education system pose several risks to the
successful achievement of the project's goals. These are summarized below.
4.3   First, existing decision-making mechanisms make initiatives vulnerable to
arbitrary interventions at each successive level of authority. The project has been
designed to minimize this risk by instituting a system of technical panels to provide
recommendations for policy decisions. Second, the system's focus on rules and
regulations constitutes a pervasive risk to far-reaching change. Rigid adherence to new
processes and regulations intended to achieve reforms can subvert the types of activities
needed to improve student learning. The project addresses this problem in two ways: by
setting up merit-based evaluations of institutions and personnel throughout the system,
and by shifting the focus of the system from rules and regulations to student learning.
4.4   Third, the system's focus on following rules rather than on student learning
contravenes the initiative, judgment, and critical thinking that teachers must exhibit in
order to respond to their students' learning needs and impart critical thinking skills.
Moreover, the teaching of these skills has often encountered broad cultural resistance in
other countries. The project has been designed to minimize these risks by phasing and
piloting implementation of activities in this area by Governorate, in order to take
advantage of lessons learned in local conditions. The in-service teacher training reform
should contribute to acceptance by teachers of new teaching practices: it uses in training
situations the same techniques which teachers will need to employ in the classroom.
Particular attention is paid to community perceptions and actual practice regarding the
teaching of these skills as part of preparation for in-service teacher training activities in
each participating Governorate. The Government, IDA and the EU acknowledge that
progress in developing these skills will be slower than improvement of basic skills.
4.5   Fourth, because they distort incentives, the low wages which prevail in the sector
constitute a serious threat to achievement of project objectives.  Many teachers
supplement their income by giving private lessons, and for those who do, there is an
economic incentive to concentrate their efforts on their private rather than classroom



Egypt: Education Enhancement Program                                         19
instruction. This incentive represents a risk to efforts to improve the quality of student
performance in government schools. Because restructuring compensation and staffing
levels in education cannot be accomplished in isolation from the rest of the public sector,
program-specific actions to mitigate this risk are not feasible at this time. However,
studies to identify possible solutions to this issue, including the formulation of specific
policy recommendations, are mandated in the Strategic Framework. These would
estimate the impact of a variety of incentive schemes on learning achievements. The
study panel will take fiscal constraints and civil service rules into account in formulating
its recommendations (Annex 2).
4.6   Fifth, the compartmentalization of responsibilities in educational development
and administration presents various problems. It results in wastage of resources through
duplication of efforts, in counter-productive behavior through rivalry among parallel
groups, and in the loss of newly acquired skills, since an agency will not apply improved
capacities if there is no demand for its output from other parts of the system. The
PPMU, in its coordination function and capacity as executive arm and policy
implementation branch of the Office of the Minister, will minimize this risk by
integrating the work of various sector bodies. In addition, program interventions are
designed in many cases to transform the functions and skills of current staff, rather than
to create parallel structures.
4.7   Finally, as implementation of the EEP would promote institutional and attitudinal
change in all spheres of the basic education system, it is likely to provoke resistance from
individuals who might feel threatened in their particular field of competence. An
imperative for the program therefore is to convince all actors of the need for and
feasibility of envisaged institutional changes. The project would attempt to engender a
shared understanding of program strategies among all relevant actors through seminars
and workshops, and through capacity building measures. The participatory approach to
planning AWPs would serve to encourage actors to articulate their views and contribute
actively to the development of the program throughout project implementation.
C. FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY
4.8   Rate of return analysis is not applicable since the lack of accurate data on income
variation according to educational attainment makes the quantification of benefits
impossible. However, international research has conclusively shown that improving the
quality of education and increasing access to it yields important positive externalities:
opportunities for the poor to increase their productivity, income and social mobility;
lower fertility and improved public health and nutrition through better education of girls;
and promotion of social and political solidarity. In addition, improving the quality of
education in Egypt will be crucial if macroeconomic, labor and trade reforms are to have
their intended effects on employment, growth and income.
4.9   Financial sustainability analysis of interventions identified in the EEP shows that
the implied incremental expenditures would be easily covered within any likely
macroeconomic and budget context. From 1991 to 1996, public education expenditures
rose an average of 6 percent per year in real terms, and pre-university expenditures by 8



20                                     Egypt: Education Enhancement Program
percent, while real total government spending dropped an average of I percent per year.
Education's share of total Government investment rose from 6 to 18 percent and its share
of total government current expenditures rose from 16 to 19 percent over the six-year
period. As a result, public education financing, which was 12 percent of total government
expenditure in 1991, is projected to be LE 11 billion in 1996. It now represents over 5
percent of GDP. While allocations of 71 to 73 percent of total recurrent expenditure to
pre-university education in most of the reference period are moderately low by
international standards (i.e., 80 to 86 percent for regional averages of low and medium-
income countries), there is no evidence of public underfunding at the lower levels.
Through the 1990s, average annual increases in per student allocations have been
significant: in the primary stage, per-student expenditure has risen by 4 percent, in
preparatory by 5 percent, and in secondary by 3 percent per year. Current per-student
allocation estimates of US$135 in primary, US$184 in preparatory and US$274 in
secondary education are high in relation to comparator countries.
4.10 As part of the preparation of each year's AWP, the Government will make its
Public Investment Program for education available to IDA, including a breakdown of
investment by level of education. World Bank projections forecast that growth of total
government current and fixed-investment spending will fall between 0.2 and 4.5 percent
from 1995 to 2012. If actual growth is at the low end of this range, then incremental
expenditures due to the EEP would be less than one percent of pre-university education
expenditures in 2002, the first year after completion of the first phase of the program,
assuming zero real growth in education spending (Table 5, Annex 14). In 2011,
incremental expenditures would represent only two to four percent of pre-university
expenditures, assuming zero to five percent real annual growth in these categories from
1997 to 2011. Even if education spending declines by three percent per year during this
period, incremental expenditures due to the program would still represent only six
percent of the total in 2011. These amounts could easily be financed by the Government
with minimal adjustment to its overall budget.
4.11  Least-Cost analysis was conducted for the two most costly components in the
program: school construction and in-service teacher training. With regard to the first of
these, as a result of IDA technical support, the Government has adopted a new school
design for primary school construction that contains a more effective layout of
classrooms and circulation.  Based on projections of the Government's school
construction program, this will result in savings of approximately US$70 million per
year. Cost savings per student place vary among different models of schools. Unit cost
savings are 9 percent in purely preparatory schools, 14 percent in mixed
primary/preparatory and 17 percent in purely primary schools, as compared to original
construction plans. Two alternatives for in-service teacher training were identified:
(i) reform the current cascade training system, which now performs poorly; or
(ii) implement an integrated distance-learning-based system. Evidence from Sri Lanka
shows that teacher training based on distance learning techniques is three times as cost-
effective as campus-based teacher training. Savings are predicated on economies of scale
inherent in distance-education available in large countries such as Egypt. This type of
training provides higher learning interaction and the benefits of group learning processes



Egypt: Education Enhancement Program                                    21
while avoiding distortion of content. Little data exist to provide cost figures for either
option in Egypt. A schematic qualitative comparison of the cost and other advantages and
disadvantages of the two options is contained in Annex 14.
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.12 At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it will:
(a)   prepare Annual Work Plans, designed according to the Objectives of the
Strategic Framework as specified in the Letter of Sectoral Policy, in
consultation with expert panels and Implementation Agencies, and
forward these to IDA for discussion by October 30 of each year (para.
3.25);
(b)   continually  track  program  implementation  progress  through  a
computerized monitoring system containing the detailed input, process
and output indicators for each AWP activity (para. 3.25);
(c)   hold bi-annual reviews with IDA and EU no later than May 30 and
November 30 of each year to review project implementation progress
covering:
(i)   project activities, financing requirements and budget provisions;
(ii)   monthly cash flow projections for the next six month period; and
(iii) status of procurement of works, goods, consulting services,
training, and improvement grants (para. 3.26).
(d)   prepare a detailed mid-term report and submit it to IDA/EU by the end of
September 1999, to serve as the basis for the mid-term review, which
IDA, the EU and the borrower will conduct by December 31, 1999 (para.
3.26).
5.13  The project constitutes a suitable basis for an ITF Credit of US$75 million to the
Arab Republic of Egypt.






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 20
EDUCATION STATISTICS*
TABLE 1-A    ENROLLMENT BY PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS
TABLE 1-B    STUDENTS AT GOVERNMIENT AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS BY GENDER (1990-95)
TABLE 1-C    STUDENTS AT AL-AZHAR SCHOOLS BY GENDER (1990-95)
TABLE 2     ENROLLMENT GROWTH RATES BY LEVEL AND GENDER (1990-95)
TABLE 3     ENROLLMENT BY AGE AND GRADE BY GENDER (1995/96)
TABLE 4     PROMOTION RATES BY GRADE AND GENDER (1992-95)
TABLE5      REPEATERS RATES BY GRADE AND GENDER (1992-95)
TABLE 6     NUMBER OF SCHOOLS AND CLASSES IN AL-AZHAR SYSTEM (1986-95)
TABLE 7     RELATIVE PERCENTAGE OF BOYS AND GIRLS IN PRIMARY AND PREPARATORY STAGE
BY GOVERNORATE 1995/96
TABLE 8     AL-AZHAR SYSTEM: SCHOOLS, CLASSROOMS, STUDENTS BY GOVERNORATE IN
1995/96
TABLE 9     NUMBER OF STUDENTS WHO ARE ACCEPTED IN TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE
TABLE 10    PROJECTED ENROLLMENT AND TEACHER & SUPPLY AT BASIC EDUCATION LEVEL
FOR GOVERNMENT SCHOOLS IN 1996-2010
TABLE 11    PROJECTION OF CLASSROOM DEMAND OF BASIC EDUCATION FOR GOvERNMENT
SCHOOLS IN 1996-20 10
*ATTACHED
FINANCE STATISTICS*
TABLE Bi: GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES, FISCAL YEARS 1991-96, BY TYPE,
LEVEL AND AGENCY (MILLION LE)
TABLE B2: REAL GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES, FISCAL YEARS 1991-1996, BY
TYPE, LEVEL AND AGENCY (MILLION LE)
TABLE B3: GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES, FISCAL YEARS 1991-1996, BY LEVEL, TYPE
AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY (MILLION LE)
TABLE B4: REAL GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES, FISCAL YEARS 1991-1996, BY
LEVEL, TYPE AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY (MILLION LE)
TABLE B5: GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES, FISCAL YEARS 1991-1996, BY TYPE
AND LEVEL (MILLION LE)
TABLE B6: REAL GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES, FISCAL YEARS 1991-1996,
BY TYPE AND LEVEL (MILLION LE)
TABLE B7: REAL UNIT EXPENDITURES FOR PRE-UNIVERSITY EDUCATION FISCAL YEAR
1991-19%/i (1996 LE PER STUDENT)
TABLE B8: REAL UNIT EXPENDITURE ESTIMATES FOR PRE-UNIVERSITY EDUCATION FISCAL
YEAR 1991-1996/1 (1996 US$ PER STUDENT)
TABLE B9: CURRENT COST IMPLICATIONS OF PROGRAM INVESTMENTs 1997-2001 (MILLION LE)
* ATTACHED



Table 1: Enrollment by Level and Gend.r
I-A Enrobnt by Pubic  Co0vennent & A.Azlhatr and Privat Schools
Mlii            9           1Si                         SuBS                                                    54                           9U19
Pubic    Pttvab    Tobtl   Pubic    Private    Total   Publc   Pvate    Total   Public   Private    Total   Public   Priat    Total    Public          Private    Total
Prinnry                  6558140   401307  6959447  6717602   424313  7141915  7001349   457425  7458774  7249151   483157  7732308  7504722   509981  8014703   7651627    533403  8185030
Preparetorv              3640215    87493  3727708  3652763    99296  3752059  3393017    94794  3487811  3397417   105276  3502693  3470259   119565  3589824   3641648    128778  3770426
Tsal Basic              10198355   488800 10687155 10370365   523609 10893974 10394366   552219 10946585 10646568   588433 11235001 10974981   629546 11604527  11293275    662181  11955456
Totnl Sdwy               1594580   113651  1708231  1679961   125974  1805935  2160772   182071  2342843  2415818   214214  2630032  2674984   231320  2906304   2566791    200530  2767321
Total Prunt             11792935   602451 12395386 12050326   649583 12699909 12555138   734290 13289428 13062386   802647 13865033 13649965   860866 14510831   13860066    862711  14722M
Note Govemment schools and Al-Azhar schools are considered to be pubiic schools since both are financed by the Government
Govemment and Prvate Schools haveS  grades in primary stage and 3 grades in preparatory stage Al-Azhar schools have 6 grades in primary stage, 3 grades in preparatory, and 4 grades in secondary
Source The World Bank staff computation based on MOE and Al-Azhar stabtstics
1-U: Studeat at Govemnment and Prtvate Schools by GeOder
90/91                       91/92                       92/93                       93194                       94/95                         95/96
aide     Boys    Total    Grel,    Boyv       Total     Gid      Bove     Total    Girs      Boye     Total    Gidr      Boyo    Total       Girt.     Bovs      Total
Primay                   2870256  3532216  6402472  2942755  3599454  6542209  3069511  3721617  8791128  3206427  3843122  7049549  3354785  3968253  7323038   3436872   4033465  7470337
Prepratory               1580439  1972816  3553255  1619984  1973381  3593365  1493546  1850700  3344246  1502728  1850630  3353358  1544759  1864368  3409127    1618196   1921644  3539840
Tom  seec                4450695  5505032  9955727  4562739  5572835 10135574  4563057  5572317 10135374  4709155  56S3752 10402907  4899544  5832621 10732165   5055068   5955109 11010177
General Seoondary         250785   325650   576435   253059   318967   572026   328862   398828   727690   350327   416617   766944   390154   454204   844358    377801    439586   817387
Induetrial Secondary       109654   366814   476468   130806   390864   521670   193649   482038   675687   229794   527834   757628   271170   571432   842602    262443    533983   796426
Agrioultural S.oondwry     28388    99617   128005    29878   102909   132787    39234   126224   165458    44745   142971   187716    42730   157437   200167            40721    150543   191264
Comnmarli Secondary       298618   123068   421686   319419   137308   455727   426445   197246   623691   498462   256916   755378   544171   301838   846009    493061    303896   796757
T"oh Train Stage           28262    18088    46350    15051    10284    25335         954     1710     2664         0        0         0        0        0         0          0         0         0
Tot., Teh Scocidav        464922   607587  1072509   494154   641365  1135519   660282   807218  146750    773001   927721  1700722   858071  1030707  1888778    796225    988222  1764447
Total Sov                 715707   933237  1648944   747213   960332  1707545   989144  1206046  2195190  1123328  1344338  2467666  1248225  1484911  2733136    1174026   1427808  2801834
Total Pre-Univity        5166402  6438269 11604871  5309952  6533167 11843119  5552201  6778363 12330564  5832483  7038090 12870573  6147769  7317532 13465301    6229094   7382917 13612011
Source: MOE Computer & Information Department
1-C: Shtuent at Al-Azhar Schoolh by  ender
90/91                       91/92                       92/93                       93/94                       94/15           1             9/96
Girl.    Boy      Total    Girl*     Bove     Total    Girl s     ove     Total     Gi,s    Boves    Total      Girl.    Bov       Total     Gir,       Bovs      Total
Primary                   203521   353454   556975   219312   380878   600190   243960   423886   667646   249483   433276   682759   256391   445274   701665    261115    453478   714593
Prpaatory                   52487   121966   174453    49571   10912    158894    47157    96408   143565    49993    99342   149335    69532   111165   180697           84258    146328   230586
.otSaeib                  258008   475420   731428   268883   490001   758884   291117   52D094   811211   299476   532618   832094   32592    556439   882362.    345373    599806   945179
S_cclry                    28337    77300   105637    37197    86528   123725    47393   102924   150317    50581   112842   163423    54088   114080   1681688           57594    106893   164487
Total Pre-Urnvwrst        284345   55220   837065   306080   576529   882609   338510   623018   961528   350057   645460   995517   380011   670519  1050530    402967    706699  1109666
Source Ak-zhar stastcs
Table 2: EnrolIntant rowrt Rafts by Level and Gender
90/91 - 91/92               91/92 - 92V93               92g93 - 93194               93/94 - 94/95               94/95 - 95/96
Girl.    love     Total    Girl.    Bove      Total     aiGidr    Bov      Total   ,Girs     Boys      Total |Girds       Boy      Total
Primary                    Z87%      244%     263%    4.79%      4.14%    4.43%     4.30%    3.16%     3.67%    4.49%    3.21%     3.78%    2.40%     1.66%    2.00%
Preparatory                224%    -0.59%    0.65%   -7.72%    -6.50%    -704%      0.78%    0.15%    0.43%     397%     1.31%    2.49%     5.46%    468%      5.03%
ToudSea                    265%      1.38%    1.94%    0.47%     0.49%    0.48%    3.18%    2.20%    2.63%    4.33%      2.61%     3.38%    3.35%    260%      2.93%
Total Seonday              5.43%    Z90%      355%   3214%    2559%    28.56%    1325%    11.47%    1241%    10.94%    10.46%    10.76%    -543%    -3.85%    -4.80%
Total Pre-Univety          3.03%     1.70%    Z28%    4.89%      4.10%    4.45%    4.95%     381%     4.32%    5.58%     396%      4.69%    1.60%     1.27%    1.42%
Source The Woodd Bank staff computaion based on Table 1
tIV
o 



Table 3: Enrollment by Age and Grade
(Govemnment & Private Schools)
(a) Male 9S46
s_-~~~~~~~~~~~~T   Ir VA  ;;C*1TF- '-  '   3c 5- r
03             17360           __.__
04             64607                                                                                    _                   _
05             51260    36187 X       X                                             _ _
06              5260    673186     87393                               _                   _     _
07               345    41352    637817    117055                                                             l
08                        2390     89988    590184    111579
09       .                 196      8338    119560    528633    114674                                                          _
10       .                           577     22219    135260    453637     99958
11                                    44      2365     36645    149339   402994      81470
12                                             255     10833    63821    152340    310857      77003
13                                                           -      31     51070    132338    265481     31098
14            _           _                                                21805     50055    156289     87098     25158
15                                                                                   17250    65882    25058    79394        28860
16               2_                                      X                   X                 23391      3950     22988     77569
17        _          .                                                                          7239       440      2678     55295
(b) Femae 95-96
U-                 ,            _                   __                             _____
03     0 1     160641         -                               _.          _                      __ X-
04             58975                                                  .
05    _        46783     32887                                        .
06              5561    590520     76865                                                           .
07               287     42058    553046    101298                                                _               _
08                        3097     72805    514290     97522
09                         688      7421     88320    459855    101839
10                                   725     14474    100785    397150     86215                                        1
11                                   105      1569     23097    110500    358218     72398
12                                             257      6716     39043    121597   273441      69156
13                                                        _         18    36040    114328    229742      28892
14              .                                                          12253     36710    124579     80827    25149
15                                                                                   10960     49588     19333     72170    26270
16       ._______    ________    ________          ________  ________  ________       3407     15212      2260     16729     63155
17 1                                                                                            4352       277      2532    402071
Source: MOE Computer & information Department.



Table 4: Promotion Rates by Grade & Gender (%)
Girls' Promotion Rates               Boys' Promotion Rates                Total Promotion Rates
Grade                92193    93/94    94/95    95/96  _  92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96 |  92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96 |
Grade 1 to 2   99.3     99.7    101.0     99.6       99.4     99.8     99.5     99.6      99.4     99.8    100.2     99.6
Grade 2 to 3   92.4     94.2     94.1     93.8      90.5      92.4     92.1     93.2      91.4     93.2     93.0     93.5
Grade 3 to 4   93.4     94.9     92.8     95.1       91.6     93.3     89.1     92.1      92.4     94.0     90.8     93.5
Grade 4 to 5   87.4     90.8     90.6     92.6       84.6     88.4     87.3     89.4      85.8     89.5     88.8     90.9
Preparatory
PrlmarytoPreparatory(5to6)            81.9     88.3     86.3     86.5      77.8     85.1     81.5     81.9      79.6     86.5      83.6     84.0
Grade 6 to 7   80.2     83.2     81.2     81.4       78.8     81.6     78.2     78.1      79.4     82.3     79.6     79.6
Grade 7 to 8   86.1     89.2     89.9     90.7       84.0     87.7     87.4     87.6      84.9     88.3     88.5     89.0
General Secondary
Prep to general secondary (8 to 9)    24.5     21.0     25.5     27.5      23.5     19.4     22.7     24.5       24.0     20.1     23.9     25.8
Grade 9 to 10   97.7     98.4      97.8     95.1      95.3     95.6     94.7     92.5      96.4     96.9    96.1       93.7
Grade 10 to 11   98.3      97.9     98.9     99.9      96.5     95.9     97.6     98.0      97.3      96.8     98.2     98.8
Note: Al-Azhar students are not included.
Source: The World Bank staff computabon based on data from MOE Infomation & Computer Department.
Table 5: Repeator Rates by Grade & Gender (%)
Girls' Repeators Rates               Boys' Repeators Rates
Grade                92)93    93/94    94/95    95/96      92/93    93/94    94195    95/96
Primary
Grade I     0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2        0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2
Grade 2     6.0      4.3      4.7      4.4        8.1      6.0      6.8      6.3
Grade 3     4.9      3.9      6.0      4.4        6.9      5.4      9.1      6.8
Grade 4     9.7      6.7      7.9      6.1       12.4      8.9     10.9      8.5
Grade 5    12.0      7.1      9.6      9.6       14.9      9.5     13.1     13.3
Total                                  6.3      4.3      5.6      4.9       8.4      5.9       8.0      7.1
Preparatory
Grade6     13.7     10.6      14.0     11.8      15.0     11.9     16.3     13.8
Grade 7     9.4      6.4      7.5      6.9       11.0      7.7      9.1      8.5
Grade S    19.1     12.0      10.1     9.8       23.9     16.2     13.9     13.7
Total                                 14.2      9.7     10.8      9.6      16.8     12.0      13.3     12.1
Genral Secondary
Grade 9     0.6      1.3       1.4      2.0       1.5      2.9      3.1      4.3
Grade 10     1.4      0.5      1.1      0.0        4.0      1.1      2.7      0.0
Grade11     19.4     18.6      8.1      19.6      22.8     21.6     11.2     25.4
Total                                  6.4      5.5      4.1      7.4       8.7      7.4       6.4     10.8
Note: AI-Azhar studenis are not included.                                                                                                        Ii
Source: The World Bank staff computation based on data from MOE Infomation & Computer Department.                                                 o



Table 6: Number of Schools and Classes in Al-Azhar System
(1) Number of Schools
86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96
Primary               920     1035      1148     1255      1491     1607      1637     1938      2097     2265
Preparatory                        _
a) Boys School     441       480      517       562      651       813      649       702      734       825
b) Girls School    132       164      175       199      227       249      294       326      417       439
Secondary                                                                                            I .  . -
a) Boys School     230       247      268       297      338       343      361       406      421       427
b) Girts School     92       105      112       127       147      170       196      205      221       255
Teaching               19       19        19       21        20       22        21       20        21       22
Telawa
(Qoran Reading)       21       22        22       22        23       24        24       24        27       27
Total          1855     2072      2261     2483      2897     3028      3182      3621     3938     4260
Source: Al-Azhar Statistics.
(2) Number of Classes
1   86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91       91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96
Primary              6307     7493      9009    10698    12912    15470    17365    18073    19791    20732
Preparatory                                       _
a) Boys School    2197      2536     2942      3470     3517      3405     3148      3344     3555      4496
b) Girls School    715       895     1068      1308      1280     1464      1449     1550     2059      2486
Secondary                                                                         .
a) Boys School    1728      1804     1974      2127     2637      2804     3303      3659      3857     3797
b) Girls School    575       654      742       805      983      1248     1562      1645      1792     2040
Teaching              149      144       142       150      159      185       203      204       224      247
Telawa
(Qoran Reading)      150      156       155      162       174      176       191      227       229      223
Total               11821    13682    16032    18720    24852    24752    28072    31507    31507    34021
Source: Al-Azhar Statistics.
co



ANNEX IL
Page 6 of 20
Table 7: Relative Percentage of Boys and Girls in Primary and Preparatory Stage
by Govemorate in 1995196 (Govemment & Private Schools)
Primary Stage _                   Preparatory Stage
Govemorate     Boys (%) 1  Girls (%)  I Difference (0)I Boys (%) [ Girls (%)  Difference (%)
Cairo            51.2        48.8         2.5        50.4       49.6         0.8
Alexandria       52.4        47.6         4.9        50.6       49.4         1.2
Behira           55.2        44.8        10.3        55.7       44.3        11.4
Gharbia          50.6        49.4         1.3        51.1       48.9         2.1
Kafr El-Shikh    51.9        48.1         3.7        52.2       47.8         4.5
Menoufia         52.8        47.2         5.5        53.3       46.7         6.6
Kaliobia         52.8        47.2         5.5        52.3       47.7         4.6
Dakahlia         52.5        47.5         5.0        50.4       49.6         0.8
Damietta         51.3        48.7         2.7        47.9       52.1        -4.3
Sharkia          52.4        47.6         4.8        52.8       47.2         5.7
Port-Said        52.2        47.8         4.3        50.6       49.4         1.2
Ismailia         51.5        48.5         3.0        51.2       48.8         2.4
Suez             52.4        47.6         4.9        52.6       47.4         5.2
Giza             51.7        48.3         3.5        54.2       45.8         8.3
Fayoum           54.0        46.0         8.0        62.7       37.3        25.5
Beni-Suef        60.4        39.6        20.8        62.7       37.3        25.4
Menya            61.0        39.0        21.9        64.3       35.7        28.5
Assyuit          61.7        38.3        23.4        60.3        39.7       20.6
Souhag           58.5        41.5        17.0        60.4        39.6       20.9
Kena             57.8        42.2        15.5        58.7       41.3        17.5
Luxor            54.5        45.5         9.1        52.7       47.3         5.4
Aswan            51.5        48.5         3.0        52.9       47.1         5.8
Matrouh          52.1        47.9         4.3        65.0       35.0        30.0
New Valley       60.1        39.9        20.2        52.4       47.6         4.9
Red-Sea          52.6        47.4         5.2        50.5       49.5         1.1
North Sinai      51.6        48.4         3.2        57.7       42.3        15.3
South Sinai      56.7        43.3        13.5        61.1       38.9        22.3
Note: A-Azhar students are not included in calculation.
Source: The World Bank staff computation based on MOE data.



Table 8: Al-Azhar System/Schools, Classrooms, Students by Governorate In 1995/96
Primary SWge                              Preparatory Stage                                 Secondary Stage                        Teaching               Tdlwaw                  TOTAL
Sch.   Clsses                         Schools         Classes          Student          Schools         Classes           Student      Sch. Classe  Student  Sch. Clasi Student  Sch. Cass          Studen
Governorate                            Boys      Girls   Boys   Girls   Boys    Girls    Boys    Girls   Boys    Girls   Boys    Girls    Boys    Girsl
ICairo                 92       992    19028    15555        28      19     246     185     9488    7947       20      15     238      189    8142    6979      1      12     475      1      10    401   176   1872        68015
2Qalubia               83       907    18615    12385        35      16     192     116     6217    3932       20      11    157       83    3890    2057       1      12     489      1       7    182   167   1474        47767
3 Sharka              286       2362    52547    30017    120       62      546     309    16588    9559       53      31     452     246    11417    6047      2      37    1348      2      13    382   556    3965    127905
4Ismailia              57        356     4397      2723      11       9      52      36      1688    1065       4       5      27       24      368     327     1       7     183      1       5    163    88    507        10914
5Monofia              140       1119    20470    13956       47      30     234     154     7174    4951       29      13     242      111     5422    2831     2      17     714      3      16    157   264    1893       55675
6 Gharbia             204       2142    46867    29482       73      49     480    301    15359    9662        29      22     313      185   10267    5784      1      12     617      1       8    348   379   3441    118386
7Marsoura              191      1840    37095    23872       72      60     419     315    13811    9909       43      36     379      221     9633    5993     1      16     651      1      13    402   404   3203    101366
S Domiatt               19       127      2551      1603     II       7      22      22       825     630       5       3      31       23      716     518     1       2      69      1       5      79    47     232       6991
9KafrElSheik           148      1380    29047    15167       57      25     327     169    11436    6807       27      13    262       115    a832    3688       1     11     455      1       8     192   272   2272       75424
10Behaira               168      1291    32758    13448       49     24      246     104     8075    3559       29      15    233       103    6297    2295      1      10     349      1      16    464  287   2003         67245
11Axanckia             33        305     5931      4501       8      4       55      39     2030    1480        6       3      57       29    1325      911     1       6     228      1       9    207    56    500        18813
12 Giza                 72       1093    24662    16153       36     18      200      98     7266    3745       22      10     186       63    5757    2165                                                 158    1640      59748
13 BeniSeuf             44        398     9919      4492      20      5       97      25     3186      916       4       9      67       15    1748      492     1      11     520      1       7    205    84    620        21478
14Fayorum               59       455    10273       5083      21      5      112      32     3666    1117        9       3      64       21     1941     626     1      15     625      1      10    451    99      709      23782
15 Menya                72       602    14616       6491      24      6      128      42     3940    1579       11       5     130       42    4012    1273      1       7     249      2      23    743   121      974      32903
16 Asyout               96       1144    27457    14077       33      17     185     108     6792    3882       20       7     147      209    4367    6440      1      17     817      2      16    477   176    1826       64309
17Sohag                231      1921    52692    27422        71      18     426     163    14086    6291       40      16    331       135    9961    4451      2      34    1249      1      11    489   379   3021    116641
laenCa                 113      1298    30688    14620        40     17      263     106     8808    3735       24      13    274       83    8512    2465       1      12     387      1      11    402   209   2047        69617
19 Aswan                56       382      6089      3868      25     11       99      51     2825    1702       10       7      81      44    2306    1038       1       5     222      1       8    107   111      670      18157
20 Dakahia              11        52       872       681       3      3       II       8      252      171       3       1      13        2      111      26                            1       7    262    22       93       2395
21 NowValey             18        99       749       608       5      2       18       7      322      214       2       2      17       15      250    19                                                  29      156      2338
22 North Sinai          33        176     1549      1426      16      17      48      47      583      429       5       5      19       16      187     133     1       4      79                           77     310       4386
23 South Sina            9        46       415       342       4      2       10       5       85       66       2       1       9        8       39      24                                                 18      78        971
24 RedSea                8         46      633       511       5      4       15      12       193     129       5       4      19       16      121      98                                                 26      108      1685
25 Suez                 I1        70      1332       847       5      5       28       6      477      197       1       1       8        8      102      92                            1       6      57    24      126      3104
26 PortSaid              7        50       700       58s       2      2       11      11      380      305       2       2      11       12      229     167                            1       6      58    16    101        2424
27 Luxor                 4        79      1526      1200       4      2       26      15      776      479       2       2      30       22     941      479                            1       8    187    15    180         5588
TOTAL              2265     20732   453478   261115    825    439    4496   2486   146328   84258    427            255   3797    2040  106893   5759    22    247    9726    27    223   6435  4260  34021   1125827
Source: Al-Azhar stebo8s.
t-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
O w



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 20
Table 9: Number of Students Who Are Accepted In Teacher Training Colleges
I__   r1990    1991    1992    1993     1994     1995
1. University or College of Education
a) General Department                       8344    8395    8905   11792    12345   20065
b) Primary Education Department            7081    6508    7364    8599    8462    9824
2. Specific Education College               3754    3974    4879    6292    6869        9510
3. Childhood Development & KG Colleges    _                                    1390    1832
TOTAL                                     19,179   18,877   21,148   26,683   29,066   41,231
Source: MOE Computer & Information Department.



Table 10: Projected Enrollment and Teacher Demand 8 Supply at Basic Education Level For Govemment Schools in 1996/97 - 2010/11
1996097  1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000101  2001/02  2002103  2003104  2004106  2006/06  2006107  2007108  2008/09  2009/10 20010/11
Projected Enrollnment
Girls
a) Prinary                 3762412  3827509  3862915  3880612  3930180  3999715  4077452  4154589  4232921  4305524  4372102  4429615  4463368  4494167  4512896
b) Preparatory             1593562  1639946  1709145  1811905  1881443  1904953  1902598  1921844  1963206  2016057  2078888  2140627  2200520  2253673  2300819
Boys
a) Prinary                 4130126  4170358  4204649  4227828  4285875  4351526  4404901  4444507  4492030  4535815  4599650  4656822  4692258  4724637  4744326
b) Preparatry              1897118  1926874  1996421  1998594  2056861  2057440  2047715  2082827  2151161  2211947  2245195  2282560  2317486  2371010  2418832
ToalEnrollment             11383218 11564687 11773130 11918939 12154359 12313634 12432667 12603766 12839318 13069342 13295836 13509624 13673631 13843487 13976874
Prolected Teaer Demand 2
a) Primary                  315702   319915   322703   324338   328642   334050   339294   343964   348998   353664   358870   363457   366225   368752   370289
b) Preparatory              158667   162128   168435   173205   179014   180109   179560   182030   187017   192182   196549   201054   205364   210213   214530
Tol Basic Educatbon            474369   482043   491137   497542   507656   514158   518854   525994   536015   545836   555419   564511   571589   578965   584819
Pron cted Teawr Supply 3
Total Basic Education          454302   458684   463805   476291   491176   508195   527284   548380   571423   595065   619287   644073   669406   695268   721000
Projected Techer Surplus (yDenitE (-)
Tot Basir Education             -20067   -23359   -27533   -21251   -16480    -5963       8430    22386    35408    49229    63868    79562    97817   116303   136181
This senario assumes the followings:
1) UnIversal Not Enronent is achieved by 2010/11 for basic education, and primary stage expands forn 5 grades to 6 grades In 1996/97.
Private schoos accounts for 7.1% of primary and 3.6% of preparatory studnts of total private & governmn  students.
AWAzhar system accounts ifr 8.1% of prmary students and 6.1% of preparatory students hi 1996/97 - 2010/11.
2) Average studentrleacher rati during 1991/92-9596 (25:1 for primnry and 22:1 for preparatory) continues after 1996197.
3) Annual htake of students in teacher training colges Icreases by 4.000 students in 1996-2000, by 3,000 students in 2001-2005. and by 2,000 students In 2006-2010; and
75% of those graduate and become teachers. 90% of them become teachers for Government schoos, and 3% of teachers retir every year.
I t
.A 



ANNEX I
Page 10 of 20
Table 11: Projection of Classroom Needs in Basic Education
For Govemment Schools in 1996/97 - 2010/11
This projectlon model is based on Grade Transition Model. Net Intake Rate (NIR), Gross Intake Rate (GIR), and Gross
Transition Rate (GTR) are used to project enrollment. The model assumes that Net Enrollment Ratio would reach 100% for all
all basic education tages In 2010/11. Model uses CAPMAS population projection and it does NOT Include lindergarten classrooms.
Following statics and assumptions are taken into consideration.
(a) Exdcluding Al-Azhar schools, 7.1% of primary and 3.6% of preparatory students are in private schools In 1995/96 (MOE statistics).
(b) AI-Azhar system accounts for 8. 1% of primary and 6.1% of preparatory students In 1995/96 (Al-Azhar statisics).
(Model assumes above percentages would be constant for the projection period.)
(c) 44.1% of primary and 48.5% of preparatory government school students are in 2 or 3 shifts schools in 1995/96 (MOE statistics).
(d) Compound Growth Rates for GTRs are calculated by taking the GTR in 1994/5 - 1995/6 of govemment schools.
(e) Number of grade 1 primary stage students is calculated by the NIR and GIR, which is set to reach 100% NIR in 2002/03
for primary giris and boys and to remain 100% until 2010/11.
(f Number of government school students in the first year of preparatory stage in 1996/97 is calculated by applying GER of
preparatory first year In 1995/96 to age 12 projected population in 1996/97.
(g) Grade 5 govemment primary students in 1995/96 would advance to Grade 6 (newly added primary stage) in 1996/97 at the GTR of
grade 4 to 5 in 1995/96. This would add 1,428,121 students to primary age cohort in 1996/97.
Projecton results are summarized in tables below.
Projected Per-Year Basic Education Classroom Needs for Government Schools In 1996/97 - 2010/11
1) Reach Universal Net Enrollment with 45 students In primary and 43 students in preparatory classrooms in 2010/11.
1996/97-2010/11
a) Primary Stage                   3,750
b) Preparatory Stage               2,231
Total                              5,981
2) Abolish 2 & 3 shift schools wth 45 students for primary and 43 students in preparatory classrooms by 2010/11.
1996/97-2010/11
a) PrInary Stage    X              2,104
b) Preparatory Stage               1,205
Total                 3_309_
3) Reduce Student/Classroom Ratio to 40:1 by 2010/11.
1996/97-2010/11
a) Prmary Stage                    2,057
be Preparatory Sbge                 562
Total                              2,619
4) Total Classroorn Needed to Achieve Above Three Objectives by 2010/11.
1996/97-2010/11
a) Primary Stage                   7,911
b) Preparatory Stage               3,998
Total                             1 1909-
5) Anual Replcement (2%) of Existing Classrooms from 1996/97-2010/11.
1996/97-2010/11
a) Primary Stage     24376
b) Preparatory Stage   1_162
Total                  3_538
Data Source: GAEB Five Year Replacement Plan in 1996/97-2001/02
6) GRAND TOTAL: Per Year Basic Educaton Classroom Demand for Govemment Schools In 1996/97-2010/1 1.
I   1996/97-2010/11
a) Primary Stage                  10,287
b) Preparory Stage                 5,160
Total                             15,447



ANNEX I
Page 11 of 20
FINANCE STATISTICS
TABLE 31. EGYPT: GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENOITURES, FISCAL YEARS 1991-19#,
BY TYPE, LEVEL AND AGENCY (millon LE)
Actual    %    Actual   %        Actual  %     Actual    %    Budget   %    Budget   S
1990/1i91      1901/1992      1992/1993       1993/1994       1904/1995     19051 gee
GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES
Curnt EduatIon Expedltums
Primary and Secondary                 2,649   71     3,197   70    4.030    71      4,876    72     5,330   72    6,540   73
CentralMinisryandAgencies              391   10       496   11       792    14      1,061    la      978   13    1,151   13
Governorab                           2,061   55    2.430   53    2,900    51       3,400    50     3,837   52    4,742   53
lIaniicScheools(AlAzhai                198    5       271    6       338     6       415     6       515    7      848    7
Higher Education                      1,085   29     1,363   30    1,609    29       1,888    28    2,054   28    2,460   27
ControlMinistry                         52    1        77    2        93     2       111     2       136    2      156    2
Universitiesexc. AlAzhar              919   25    1,147   25    1,357    24         1,603   24     1,694   23    2,046   23
AlAzharUNvemity                        114    3       129    3       160     3       174     3       224    3      259    3
Total Cunwnt                          3,734   79    4,550   83    5.639    80       6,764    75     7,384   79    9,000   8o
Investmet EduatIon ExpendIture
Primary and Secondary                   470   48       284   31       669    48      1,485    67    1,498   74    1,627   74
Central MminiyandAgence /1             271   28        71    8       268    19      1,255    57    1,482   74    1,609   73
Govwnorat_                             192   20       204   22       395    29       194     9        -    -         -
lsrnicSchool(AlAzhar)                    7    1         9    1         7     0        36     2        16    1       18    1
HigherEducation                         501   52       631   69       716    52       719    33       516   28      574   28
CentralMinatry                          76    8       182   18       130     9       150     7       151    7      169    S
UniverIties exc. Al Azhar              393   40       430   47       545    39       490    22       320   16      352   18
Al Azhar Univeruity                     32    3        40    4        41     3        79     4        46    2       52    2
Tcfai/nvetmwnt                         971   21        915   17    1,386    20      2,204    25     Z014   21    Z201   20
Tetal Edueseon Expandltumrs 2
Primary and Seondary                  3,120   6e    3,481   64    4,699    67       8,361    71     6,827   73    8,168   73
CentralMiistry                         662   14       568   10    1,060    15      2,316    28     2,480   26    2.761   25
Governoratee                         2,253   48    2,634   48    3,295    47       3,594    40     3,837   41    4,742   42
larwnic Schoob (Al Azhar               205    4       280    5       345     5       451     5       531    6      665    6
HigherEducation                       1,5586   34    1,984   36    2,325    33      2,807    29     2,570   27    3,033   27
Cewtral Minitry                        128    3       239    4       223     3       262     3       287    3      325    3
UniveraitieaexAlAzhar               1,312   28     1,577   29    1.902    27      2,093    23     2,014   21    2,396   21
AlAzharUniverity                       148    3       169    3       201     3       252     3       270    3      311    3
Total Education                       4,705  100    5,485  100    7,025   100        8,968   100    9,398  100   11,201   100
EDUCATION I GOVERNMENT
Curent Govemmrnnt Expenditures          16%            16%            15%             16%             17% /4         19%/4
Government Investment Expenditure.       6%             6%            12%             21%              18% /4        18% /4
Total Government Expenditures t3        12%            12%            15%             17%             17%14          19%A/4
GOV T EDUCATION I GDP                      4.8%           4.6%           5.3%            6.1%            4.7%          5.0%
1/ 199SO     and 19i5/96 budget 8gu  adjusted for esimed actual over-budget expenditure by GAEB.
2t Excluding capitl transtea
3/ Denornhater i totl current and inveetment expenditurs.
4t Total Government expenditure data used fr 1994/95 and 1995196 are prelrxinary actual and projected actual, respetively.
Source: Minitry of Finance



ANNEX I
Page 12 of 20
DAdkins/Verslon of Octofber 10, 1996
TABLE BZ EGYPT: REAL GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES, FISCAL YEARS 1991-1996,
BY TYPE, LEVEL AND AGENCY (mnillion 1996 LE)
Ann.
Actual    Actual    %      Actual %       Actual  S        Budget %        Budget %   # inc
1990/1991 1991/1992  inc. 1992/1993  inc. 199311994  inc. 1994/1995  inc. 1995/1996 Inc.   6Yr.
GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES
Currnt Education Expenditures
Primary and Secondary                 4.430     4.4f8     1    5,106   14    5.684      11     5,752     1      6.540  14       6
CentalMinstryandAgencies              654        694    6    1.004   45    1.237    23         1.056  -15      1.151    9      9
Govemorates                          3.446     3.395    -1    3,674    8    3,963       8     4.141     4      4,742  14       5
IslamicSchools(AlAzhar)               330        379   15       428   13       484    13        556    15       648  17       11
HtgherEducation                       1.814     1.890    4    2,039    8    2.200        8     2,217     1      2,460  11       5
CentrelMinistry                        86        107   24       118   10       130    10        147   13        156   6       10
Unvermlteexc.AIAzhar                 1.537     1,602    4    1.719    7    1.868        9      1.829   -2      2.046  12       5
AlAzharUniversnty                     191        181   -5       202   12       202      0       242   19        259   7        5
Totl Currnt                          6.244      6.358     2    7.145   12    7.884    10       7.970     1     9.000  13        6
Inve_tmnt Education Expenditures
Pritnary and Secondary                 787        397  -50       848  114    1,731   104        1.617   -7      1.627   1      12
Central Mlnistry and Agencies/1       454        100  -78       339  240    1.463   332        1,599    9      1,609   1      21
Governorates                          321        285  -11       500   76       226    -55        -    -           -   -
IslamnicSchools(AIAzhar)               12         12     1        9  -27        42   379         18  -58         18   2        7
Hwher Education                        838        882     5      907    3       838    -8        557  -34        574   3       -6
Central Ministry                      127        226   78       165  -27       175      6       162   -7        169   4        5
Universmies exc Al Azhar              657        601   -9       691    16      572   -17        345  -40        352   2    -10
Al Azhar Unwersify                     54         65     3       52   -6        92    77         50  -46         52   5        0
Toni tnveetmnt                        1.624     1,278  -21    1,756   37    2,570    46        2,174  -15       2.201    1      5
Total Educaion Expsnditures/2
PrknaryandSecondary                  5.217      4.864   -7    5.955   22    7.415    25        7,369   -1       8,168  11       7
Central Ministry                     1.108       793  -28    1,343   69    2,700   101        2,655   -2       2,761   4      15
Govemorates                         3,767      3.680   -2    4,175   13    4.190        0     4.141    -1      4.742  14       4
IslamicSchools(AlAzhar)               342        391    14      437   12       525    20        573    9        665  16       11
Hbher Educton                        2,651      2,772     5    2,946    6    3,039       3     2,774    -9      3,033   9       2
Cential Ministry                      214        333   56       282  -1S       305      8       309     1       325   5        7
Universiltesexc.AlAzhar             2,194      2,203    0    2,410    9    2,440        1     2,174  -11       2.398  10       1
AlAzharUnversaty                      244        236    -3      254    8       294    16        291   -1        311   7        4
oat Elducition                       7,868      7,636   -3    8.901    17   10,454    17    10,143   -3    11.201   10          6
TOTAL GOVT EXPENDITURES
CurrentGovernmentExpendktures        39,260    39.935    2   46,572    17   49.536       6    46,730/4 0      47,355/4 0        3
Goverrment Investment Expendltures   25.194    22,001   -13   14.061  -36   12.425   -12    1Z196/4 0         1Z469/4 0       -12
TotalGoverrnnentExpenditures/3       64,454    61.936   -4   60.632   -2   61.961        2    58.926/4 -5    59.824/4 2        -1
1/ 1994/95 and 1995/96 budget figures adjusted for estenated actual over-budget expenditure by GAEB.
2/ Exduding capital tranfens.                             3/ Total current and investment expenditures.
4/ Total Government expenditure data for 1994/95 and 1995196 are prelkninary actual and projected actual, respectively,
Source: Ministry of Finance                    Note: Defated by GDP deflator.
FY      1996      1997           1998           1999             2000             2001                     Sum
Projected Nominal
Govemment Budget (LE)               59,824    66,780         73.804         85.747           97.068          110,654
Assumlptlons:
Inflatlon                                        0.08          0.075           0.09            0.091           0.093
Real Growth                                      0.03           0.03           0.03             0.03            0.03
Exchange Rate                                    3.39          3.566          3.791            4.033           4.299
Proeed Education Budget (LE) Q19%              12,688         14,023         16,292            18.443          21.024                  82.470
Projected Education Budget() Q19%               3,743          3,932          4,298            4,573            4.890                   21,436



ANNEx 1
Page 13 of 20
TABLE 83. EGYPT:  GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES, RISCAL YEARS 1991-1996,
BY LEVEL TYPE AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY (million LE)
Actual    %    Actual    %       Actual  %     Actual    %       Budget    %      Budget    %
1990/1991      1991t1992       1992/1993       1993/1994         1994/1996         1995/1996
GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENOrrURES
Primary and Secondary
Current Expenditures
Wage, Satlrles, Benefts          2,196   83      2,614    82     3,181    79     3,786    78       4,276    80      5,355    82  144%
OlharCurrentExpendtres             454   17       584    18       649    21      1,091    22       1,054    20      1,185    18  161%
r       Cunrent              2,649   56      3,197    59    4,030    57      4,876    54       5,330    61      6,540    62  147%
Invedmtmnt Expendtures/l            470   10       284      5      669    10      1,485    17       1,498    17      1,627    I5
Tobtl Prlmary&Secondry            3,120   66      3,481    64    4.699    67      6,361    71       6,827    78      8,168    78
Higher Educatbn
Wages, Salaries, Benefts           804   17       948    17    1,115    16       1,319    15       1,472    17      1,802    17
Olhar Current Expendturm           281    6       405      7      494      7      569      6        582      7        658     6
roBiCuurrent                 1,085   23      1,353    25     1,609    23     1,888    21       2,054    24      2,460    23
Inesment Expndltuires               501   11       631    12        716    10      719      8        516      6        574     5
Total Higher Education            1,586   34      1,984    36    2,325    33      2,607    29       2,570    29      3,033    29
Total Educaion Expendfurs1
Wage, Salaries, Benets           2,999   64      3,562    65     4,296    61     5,104    57       5,748    66      7,157    68
OthrCurrntEwitendltures            735   16       988    18    1,343    19       1,660    19       1,636    19      1,643    18
rol curant                   3,734   79      4,550    83     5,639    80     6,764    75       7,384    85      9,000    86
wnstment ExpendIures                971   21       915    17    1,386    20       2,204    25       2,014    23      2,201    21
Total EducatIon                   4,706  100      5,465   100     7,025   100     8,968    100      8,735   100     10,503   100
1/19494 and 1995/96 budgsfligure adJusted                  2/ Erkidingcaplaltansfers
tor m,d  atual our-budget expendhure by GAEB
Source: Milnits of Finance and Educaton and nission enunmtes



ANNEX I
Page 14 of 20
TABLE B4. EGYPT: REAL GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES, FISCAL YEARS 1-14996,
BY LEVEL, TYPE AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY (million 1996 LE)
Ann.
Actual    Actual    %         Actual %        Actual  %       Budget %        Budget %  % Inc.
199011991  199111992   Inc. 199211993   inc. 1993/1994  Inc  199411995  Inc. 199511906 Inc.  6Yr.
GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES
Primary and Secondsy
Currant Expenditures
Wages. Salaries, Benefts         3,671       3,652   -1       4,031   10      4,413     9      4,615    5      5,355  16     6 46%
OtherCurrentExpendtures            759        816    8        1,076   32      1,271    18      1,137  -11      1,185   4     7 56%
rotal Currnt                  4,430      4,468     1      5,106   14      5,684    11      5,752     1     6.540  14      6 48%
Investment Expendituresxt           787        397  -50         848  114       1,731   104      1,617   -7      1,627   1    12
Total Prlmary&S condary           5,217       4,864   -7       5,955   22      7,415    25      7,369   -1      8,168  11      7
Higher Education
Wages, Salaries, Benfitb         1,344       1,325   -1       1,413    7      1,537     9      1,589    3      1,802  13      5
OtherCurrentExpenditures          470         565   20         626   11        663      6       628   -5        658   5       6
rota Current                  1,814      1,890    4       2,039    8      2,200      8     2,217   -       2,460  -       5
Investment Expenditure             838         882    5         907    3        838    -8        557  -34        574   3    -6
Total Higher Education            2.651       2,772    5       2,946    6      3,039     3      2,774   -9      3,033   9      2
Total Education Expanditures/2
Wages, Salkrls, Beneft           5,015       4,977            5.443           5,950            6,204           7,157          6
OtherCurrentExpenditures         1,228       1,381    12      1,702   23      1,935    14      1,766   -9      1.84    4     7
Tobl Current                  6,244      6,358    2       7,14    12      7,884    10      7,970     1     9,000  13      6
Investment Expenditures           1,624       1,278  -21       1,756   37      2,570    46      2,174  -15      2.201    1    5
Totml Educatlon                   7,868       7,636   -3       8,901    17    10,454    17    10,143   -3    11,201  10        6
TOTALGOVERNMENT/3                   64,454      61,936    -4     60,632   -2    61,961       2    58,926/4 0    59,824/5 2       -1
1/1994/95 and 199596 budgetflgures adJusted                2V ExcludngcapIl transabi.                         4t Premninary actuaL
for esmated actual over-budget expenditure by GAEB.       3/ Total currnt and Investment expenditures.      51 Projected actual.
Source: MinltesofFinanfceandEducatIonandmslonestImates                       Note: Deflted by G deflator



ANNEX I
Page 15 of 20
TABLEBS. EGYPT: GOVERNMENTEDUCATIONEXPENDITURES,FICALYEARS1991-1996,
BY TYPE AND LEVEL/1 (million LE)
Actual     %     Actual    %       Actual  %      Actual    %     Budget   %       Budget   %
1990/iSSi       1991/1992       199211993        1993/1994        1994/1995       199S1996
OVERNN  EDUCATION EXPEND[TURES
CuIJ   ducatlk  ExpendSues
Pretary                           1,173    31     1,425    31     1,788     32     2,115    31      2.268    31     2,727   30
Prpmrtory                          831    22       996    22      1,155     20     1.374    20      1,524    21     1,898   21
Seoondary                          645    17        777    17    1,086    19       1.388    21      1,537    21     1,915   21
Higher                           1,085    29      1,353    25     1,609    29      1,888    28     2,054    28      2,460   27
Toa CWmt                          3,734    79     4,550    83    5,639      80      6,764    75     7,384    79      9,000   80
hwaabaat EuosOm Expeedin_es
Prirnary/2                         213    22        129    14       303    22        773    35       780    39        766   35
Preparatory/2                      146    15        88    10        207    15        357    16       349    17        439   20
Secondary/2                        112    12        67      7       159    11        355    16       368    18        423    19
Hiher                              501    52       631    69       716    52        719    33        516    26       574   26
Ta hwetnwat                        971    21        915    17      1,386    20      2,204    25     2,014    21      2,201    20
Toa EdSiucalon ExpeAdltures/3
Prb& ry                           1,386    29     1,553    28    2,091      30     2,888    32      3.048    32     3.492   31
Preparatory                        976    21      1,084    20     1,362     19     1,731     19     1,874    20     2337   21
Seondary                           757    16        844    15    1.245      18     1,742    19      1,906    20     2338   21
FWwer                            1,586    34      1,984    36     2,325    33      2,607    29     2,570    27      3,033    27
ToaEduc.ien                       4,705   100     5,465   100    7,025    100       8,968    100    9,398   100    11,201   100
I/ Expenditure daa for pre-univeity education, which is not disaggrgated by level, has been dsaggregated as foNomn to produce
estimas of expendhure by Wvet wage-red expenditures, by numbms and relative average salaries of teachss; other current
expendtus, by enrollmnnt and an estnate of relte par-stent ependitue; investment, by actual constuction expenditures
for ech Wet.
2t 199495 and 199SS96 budget figures adusted for estimated actual over-budget expenditure by GAEB.
3/ Excluding caphi transfers.
Source: Ministries of Finance and Education and mission sstimates



ANNEX 1
Page 16 of 20
TABLE B6. EGYPT: REAL GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES, FISCAL YEARS 1991-1996,
BY TYPE AND LEVEL /1  (millin 1996 LE)
Ann.
Actual    Actual    %       Actual %       Actual  %        Budget %        Budget %   % inc.
1990/1991  1991/1992  inc. 199211993  inc. 199311994  inc. 1994/1995  inc. 199511996 inc.   6 Yr.
GOVERNIIENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES
Current Education Expenditures
Pnmary                           1,962       1,991    1    2,266   14    2,465       9     2,448   -1       2,727  11       5
Preparabry                       1,389       1,392    0    1,464    5    1,601       9     1,645     3      1,898  15      5
Secondary                        1.079       1,085    1    1,377   27    1,618      18     1,659     3      1,915  15      10
Figher                          1.814       1,890     4    2,039    8    2,200      8      2,217     1     2,460  11       5
ToldCwrent                       6,244       6,358     2    7,145   12    7,884     10      7,970     1     9,00   13      6
Ivinwtmnt Educatbn Expendbares
Prinary/2                         356         180  -50       384  114       901    135       842   -7        766  -9       13
Preparatory/2                     243         123  -50       262  114       417    59        377  -10        439  16       10
Secondary/2                       187          94  -50       202  114       413   105        398   -4        423   6       14
Figher                            838         882     5      907    3      838    -8         557  -34        574   3      -6
oIrlwfnvgaaont                   1,624       1,278  -21    1,756   37    2,570    46        2,174   -15     2,201    1      5
Tobi Education ExpendlituresJ3
Primary                         2,318       2,170    -6   2,650   22    3,366    27        3,290   -2      3,492   6       7
Preparatory                      1,632       1,514    -7    1,726   14    2,018     17     2,022     0      2,337  16      6
Secondary                        1,266       1,179    -7    1,578   34    2,031     29     2,057     1      2,338  14      10
Figher                          2,651       2,772     5    2,946    6    3,039      3      2,774    -9     3,033   9       2
roWEdkreIin                      7,868       7,636    -3   8,901    17   10,454    17    10,143   -3    11,201  10          6
1/ Expenditure data for pre-uniersity educabon, Mhich is not disaggregdted by bW* has been disaggregated as foloas to produce
estimates of expenditures by lbvet wAge-relted expendtures, by nurrters and relatbw average salaries of teachers; other current
expenditures, by enroIrnent and an estimate of relabw par-student expenditure; investrn    by actual constructon expendtures
for each lewl.
21 1994/95 and 1995/96 budget figures adjusted for estmated actual over-budget expenditure by GAEB. Estmates for fiscal years 1991 and 1992
for invesynent by levl are derived using the breakdol of fiscal year 1993; hence the rate of growlh is the same for all three lvels.
31 Exoluding capital transfers.
Source: Ministries of Finance and Educabon and mNsson estimates       Not: Deflated by GDP deflabr.



ANNEX I
Page 17 of 20
TABLE 87. EGYPT: REAL UNIT EXPENDITURE ESTIMATES FOR PRE-UNIVERSITY EDUCATION
FISCAL YEARS 1991-1996/1 (1996 LE per student)
Ann.
Actual     Actual     %      Actual %        Actual  %        Budget %         Budget %    % inc.
1990/1991  1991/1992   inc. 199211993  inc. 1993/1994   inc.  1994/1995  inc  1995/1996 inc.   6Yr
REAL GOVERIIENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES PER STUDENT
Unit Cost - Cunent Expendiures
Primary                             299         296    -1       324     9      340      5        326    -4        356    9       3
Preparatory                         382         381     0       431    13      471      9        474     1        521   10       5
Secondary                           677         646    -5       637   -1       670       5       620    -7        746   20       2
UnK Cost - Investment Expendiures
Primary/2                            54          27   -51        55   105      124    127        112   -10        100  -11      10
Preparatory/2                        67          34   -50        77   130      123     59        109   -11        121   11      10
Secondaryl2                         117          56   -52        93   66       171     83        149   -13        165  11        6
Unit Cost - Total Expendltures/3
Primary                             353         323    -9       379    17      464     23        438    -6        456    4       4
Preparatory                         448         415    -8       509    23      594      17       583    -2        642   10       6
Secondary                           794         702   -12       730     4      841      15       769    -9        911   18       2
1/ Expenditure data for pre-university education, which is not disaggregated by level, has been disaggregated as fblows to produce
estimates of expenditures by level: wuge-related expendtures, by numbers and relative average salares of teachers; other cunrent
expenditures, by enrolment and an estimate of relative per-student expendture; investment by actual constnuction expenditures
for each level.
2/ 1994/95 and 1995/96 budget figures adjusted for estimated actual over-budget expenditure by GAEB.
3J Excluding capital transfers
Source: Ministries of Finance and Education and mission estimates        Note: Deflated by GDP deflator.



ANNEX 1
Page 18 of 20
TABLE ES. EGYPT: REAL LNIT EXPENDTURE ESTIMATES FOR PRE-UNIVERSITY EDUCATION
FISCAL YEARS 1991-199VI (1996 US$ pw student)
Ann.
Actual     Actual    %       Actual  %      Actal  %         Budget %        Budpgt %   % inc.
193011991  199111992   inc. 199211993  inc. 19931994  inc. 199411995  inc. 199561996 inc.   6 Yr.
REAL OVoRINT EDUCATION EXPENDfTURS PER STUDENT
Ui* Cos - CwTet Eqwm0wes
Primnry                             88          87    -1       95    9        100     5         98    -4       105   9        3
Prejxery                           113         112     0      127   13        139     9        140     1       154  10        5
Sccond ry                          2C0         191    -5      188   -1        198     5        183    -7       220  20        2
Uni Codt - bInvenun Exp_* ldt
Pwlrnayt2                           16           8  -51        1f6  105       37    127         33   -10        30  -11      10
Prepeory/2                          20          10  -50        23  130        36    59          32   -11        36  11       10
Secondary/2                         35          17  -52        286 e          50    83          44   -13        49  11        6
Ud- Cost - Toal Exp 3nitres3
Primey                             104          95    -9      112   17       137    23         129    -6       135   4        4
Pr.prain                           132         122    -8      150   23       175    17         172    -2       189  10        6
seconwy                            234         207   -12      215    4       248      15       227    -9       269  18        2
I/ BEnVdWtre dabi for pre-unlwnsty schucedon, vhiech ie not dlaaurgate  by 6wL has been dWagWegtdW - folome o produre
ad    'a of ependlres by lWt vAeeh ed  ndturee, by nunbcm and reb&,* awges saebis ofIechrs; ottr cunwt
apenJ;rs, by onnoSiunt and en etinub of rs*M per-sKudnt ewnditure; invatrmsat by ect  co structon nbpecxee 
for oach bli
2 1994195 and 1996596 bd   fgw   a4tad for asoied actual over-dget owxpture by GAEB.
3/ E,ckdng capbl tranem
Source.: PAnli of Finance and Education and rrnWon adimnae             hND: Deld by GOP dfatr.



ANNEX 1
Page 19 of 20
TABLE BS:  CURRENT COST IMPLICATIONS OF PROGRAM INVESTMENTS 1987-2001 (mililon lif  LE)
Numer        Un
POOAN  ESIT                    Pr rYr        Co"t       02      m2a         4      Ms        200      2007      2m        me       20110     2011
INCHEAS DEROLL6NT AT 4 PER PSARY AND 43 PER PREPARATORY CLASSROOM
NMw Staff                          ,91       2,000               -        -
InroadSdSool Manviane              0.901      790
Adwonl Lawring Mansd             203,164       27
Teow                                       -        -         -        -                                      -        -
REDUCTION OF CLASS SZE TO 40
Maw Stff                           2,e19    2.000
neord Scaool ," tManancs           2,019      790
REDUCTION IN MULTIPLE SIOFTS
Inwoasd School Mabitance           3,309      790
£i*b1 ScAaoiCoinbudn-Rdefd                     -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -
IMROVED TEACHING AND LEARNNO
MaL anco Mow NCET BldD               2%  1.700.C00
Eq4ment Now MCET Bldg                5%   340,000
StudwnatMelats                   675,000       17
I-saro Trinhg                     31,500      153
Local Trahng Canton                 350        51        0
Distne Laning Padcges              1,400    8.06 
Total                                       0       -         --                           -        -         -
E*USNT MA4UNTNANCE AND  EPLACSMNT
VdSola                                20   51,000      -         -        -         -         -
Cooiput                              264        0      --O
Ow                                   13    17000
Anormika dEql4mont Raptacmant            3,036200        1         I        1         I         I        1         I        I         1         I
rotw
TOTAL                                                      1         1        1         1         1        1         1        1         1
RU.ATION TO FUTLUR  TOTAL EDUCATIONAL EXPENDITURES                     Asaeoing Annual Real xperndturi towns 19914011 at %
%TotU PrUardwoaty Exp.ndhr                             0%       0%        0%        0%       0%        0%       0%        0%        0%       0%
' TotW Eduscln Expadla                                 0%       0%        0%        0%       0%        0%       0%        0%        0%       0%
Asumlng Annual Rf       o_pedr  growth 119974911 st S%
% Totlr PnrUniarltly Expntwa                           0%       0%        0%        0%       0%        0%       0%        0%        0%       0%
% Tota EducSaon Expadbrn                               0%       0%        0%        0%       0%        0%       0%        0%        0%       0%
Asooming Annual Raalmxpandlha trowthi Si-SOIl at4%
% Total PrU-rasnnHy Expdtoar                           0%       0%        0%        0%       0%        0%       0%        0%        0%       0%
% Toal Educason Expadntra                              0%       0%        0%        0%       0%        0%       0%        0%        0%       0%
courca. cloan aun-ansa



ANNEX I
Page 20 of 20
EGYPT: GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES, FISCAL YEARS 1991-1996,
BY TYPE, LEVEL AND AGENCY minflon LE)
Actual      Actual       Actual       Actual      Budget       Budget
199011991    199111992    1992/1993    199311994    1994/1995    199611996
GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES
Current Education Expendtures
Primary and Secondary                 2,649       3,197        4,030        4,876       5,330        6,540
CentralMinistry and Agencies          391          496         792         1,061         978        1,151
Governorates                        2,061        2,430        2,900        3,400       3,837        4,742
IslamlcSchools(AlAzhar)               198          271         338          415          515          648
Higher Education                      1,085       1,353        1,609        1,888       2,054        2,460
CentralMinistry                        52           77          93          111          136          156
Universities exc. Al Azhar            919        1,147        1,357        1,603       1,694        2,046
AlAzharUniversity                     114          129          160         174          224          259
Total Current                        3,734        4,550        5,639        6,764       7,384        9,000
Investnent Eduction Expenditures
Prinmry and Secondary                  470          284         669         1,485        1,498       1,627
Central Ministry and Agencies/I       271           71         268         1,255       1,482        1,609
Governorates                          192          204         395          194           -            -
lslamicSchools(AlAzht)                  7            9           7           36           16           18
Higher Education                       501          631         716          719          516          574
CentralMinistry                        76          162         130          150          151          169
Universiies exc. Al Azhar             393          430         545          490          320          352
A^ Azhar Univesity                     32           40          41           79           46           52
Total Investment                       971          915        1,386        2,204       2,014        2,201
Total Education Expenditures/2
Prmaryand Secondary                  3,120        3,481        4,699        6,361       6,827        8,168
Central Ministry and Agencies         662          568        1060         2,316       2,460        2,761
Goverorates                         2,253        2,634        3,295        3.594       3,837        4,742
Islamic Schools (Al Azhar)            205          280         345          451          531         665
Higher Education                      1,586       1,984        2,325        2,607       2,570        3,033
Central Ministry                      128          239         223          262          287          325
'Jniversities exc. Al Azhar         1,312        1,577        1,902        2,093       2,014        2,398
AlAzharLUniversity                    146          169          201         252          270          311
Total Education                       4,705       5,465        7,025        8,968       9,398       11,201
EDUCATION I GOVERNMENT
CurdreGovenrnentExpenditures           16%          16%          15%         16%           17%/4        19%/4
Government Investment Expenditures      6%           6%          12%         21%           18% /4      18% /4
Total Government Expenditures/3        12%          12%          15%         17%           17% /4      19% /4
GOVTEDUCATION/GDP                         4.8%         4.6%        5.3%         6.1%         4.7%         5.0%
1/ 1994/95 and 1996196 budget figures acJusted for estimnated actual over-budget expenditure by GAEB.
2/ Excluding capital transfers.
3f Denomirator is total cunenl and investnmAnt expenditures.
4/ Total Government expenditur data used for 1994/95 and 1995/96 are prelminary actual and projected actual, respectively.
Source: Ministry of Finance
GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES
Current                             23.479       28,581       36,756       42,494      43,294       47,355
Investment                          15,067       15,746       11,097       10,659      11,299       12,469
Total                               38,546       44,327       47,852       53,153      54,593       59,824



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 7
ISSUES IN TEACHER COMPENSATION AND ACCOUNTABILITY
Teachers' salaries in Egypt are so low as to be insufficient to meet basic family needs.
To supplement incomes, private tutoring has become widespread. Given the importance of
providing good quality basic education to all children, one suggested solution' is to increase
salaries, curtail private tutoring and somehow channel a large part of the funds currently spent on
tutoring (reported to be a staggering LE 7 billion annually, exceeding the MOE and Govemorates
total budget for education) to the public education system through school improvement funds,
fimds for extracurricular activities, and other similar purposes. In practice, any solution to the
problem of low wages in the education sector poses several dilemmas.
While the starting base salary for a teacher is LE 100 a month, about LE 900 is needed to
provide a decent living for an average Egyptian family. Low wages are not restricted to teachers,
but prevail throughout almost all of the civil service. Most civil servants do not eam enough for
a living, work less than a full day, and supplement their incomes through other means. Given the
sheer number of civil servants and the weight of the wage bill on the central Government's
budget, there is very little scope for pay increases in the absence of large staff reductions. The
latter solution would be difficult for obvious social and political reasons. Virtually no country
has been able to effectively make redundant large numbers of civil servants.
Given low pay in public sector jobs, civil servants find ways to supplement their
incomes. There is no harm to this when "moonlighting" jobs consist of a separate private sector
activity (such as driving a taxi after regular office hours). The problem arises when tasks in a
government job are not carried out, or when an existing position is misused, as is the case when
Govemment pernits are sold by civil servants. In the case of education, distortions due to low
wages consist of teachers: (i) trying to minimize effective formal teaching hours so as to allow
more time for private tutoring; and (ii) not providing adequate teaching during regular classes so
as to create a demand for private tutoring. Poorer students who are unable to pay for private
tutoring are likely to suffer most.
Yet, it is also undesirable to curtail or forbid private tutoring. Apart from the practical
impossibility of enforcing such a prohibition, private tutoring performs a useful function as it
prepares students for exams and increases student learning. Some studies2 suggest that in Egypt
private tutoring merely increases the likelihood of passing examinations without benefiting
leazning achievement. This implies that the problem lies w-ith exams and the examination
process, rather than with the quality of private tutoring as such. The goal of private tutoring will
always be to pass examinations; if exams and the examination process were a real test of student
leamning, there would be little doubt that private tutoring fulfills an extremely useful social
function at no cost to the Govenmment. In essence, it functions like a private education system.
Why then is private tutoring in Egypt so widespread and wnhv is the role of formal private
education relativelv limited (private education is expanding rapidly, even though its share of total
basic school enrollment -excluding the Al-Azhar system- is less than 10%. Under the right
See for example, Egypt, Human Development Report, 1995, INP, UNDP, p. 58
2   See Nader Fergany, A Survey of Access to Primary Education and Acquisition of Basic Literacy
Sldlls in three Govemorates in Egypt, October 1994.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 7
conditions, teaching in a classroom is probably equally effective and less costly3 than private
tutoring). There are two primary possibilities: First, Government regulations might make it
cumbersome to establish a private school. In Egypt, there is evidence that this is indeed the case:
a license is required and a public school inspector needs to be paid to inspect a private school. It
would be useful to examine whether these are "normal" Government requirements, or whether
they represent an unusual constraint. Second, teachers do not wish to entirely abandon public
sector jobs. Being a civil servant provides some social security (e.g. health insurance). It can
also provide additional access and knowledge about the exams and the examination process, or
partial control over exam outcomes, all of which are key to "successful" private tutoring. Again,
this seems to suggest that the problem is with the integrity of the examination rather than with
private tutoring as such.
A key avenue to be explored is the extent to which formal private education can be
expanded, and how funds spent on tutoring can be channeled to formal private schools on a
voluntary basis. Evidently, there is a large untapped market for private education in Egypt and a
willingness to pay for private education. A major expansion of private education would take
pressure off public education and provide a larger resource envelope per pupil in the public
sector. (A significant expansion of private education is already taking place. The big paradox is
that private tutoring is also a common practice in private schools. One of the reasons cited for
this is that exams are too demanding and the curriculum to be mastered is too demanding. In this
case, the problem is with the exams and the curricula.)
The laws of supply and demand would also suggest that a major expansion of private
education would drive down its costs. Formal private education would undercut the incentive to
teach poorly by de-linking poor teaching from the market for privately provided education.
Alternatively, parents could pool funds to supplement the salaries of teachers in the
public sector, thereby creating a defacto performance based bonus system. There is evidence that
this is also already taking place. Again, this would take pressure off public resources and
undernine the incentive to teach poorly. Both avenues, expansion of private schools and
supplementing teachers' salaries, should be examined closely.
It is important to recognize however that the existing system is both very inequitable and
very expensive. Families reportedly spend as much as 30% of their disposable incomes on
education. Only the better-off can afford good private tutoring. These are important factors
favoring a larger role for formal private education. The usual arguments against private
education are based on equity grounds. But these arguments should be weighted against the
realities of the existing system: it is expensive, inequitable and untransparent.
3 In practice, economies of scale are used for private tutoring. In large cities, teachers rent large
auditoriums to teach students duing the exam period. Annual revenues from this type of activity can
reach LE 500,000.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 7
Conclusions:
The scope for substantially increasing teacher pay is very limited. Pay increases for teachers
should not be considered outside the overall fiscal context, the possible spillover effects to other
segments of the civil service, and their macroeconomic consequences. The size of the total
teachers' wage bill is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance.
*   Increased differentiation in the bonus system may be introduced.   But in the
absence of other measures, the impact of increased teacher pay is likely to be very
limited;
*   It is essential to measure and monitor leaming achievement and teacher
performance. Non-performing teachers should be given a non-teaching job. Lacking
this, any change in the remuneration system is bound to fail;
*   Changes in the exams and the examination process are probably a key element of
any successful education reform. The nature of the exams may be the chief causal
factor for the prevalence of private tutoring in Egypt;
*   A much better understanding is needed of the role of the private sector in providing
education, the regulatory obstacles it faces, and the actual problems it confronts; and
-  An experimental study on teacher compensation and student performance should be
carried out. A draft terms of reference is attached.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 7
Attachment
AN INDICATIVE PROPOSAL FOR A STUDY OF TEACHER MOTIVATION AND COMPENSATION
WHAT ARE THE PROBLEMS?
There are three problems:
First, the quality of schooling is by all indications very low.
Second, teacher compensation (as with all civil service pay) is very low. This requires teachers
to maintain a second income, either through tutoring or through some other second job.
Third, all dimensions of teacher compensation (pay, employment, assignment, promotion,
working conditions) appear unrelated to performance. After some minimal criteria or initial
employment, all other decisions appear to be driven by (at best) seniority.
There are, therefore, compelling reasons to believe that changing the level and structure
of teacher compensation will be an important element of quality improvement. Without a high
quality, motivated, teaching force all other efforts (e.g. training, pedagogical innovation, etc.) are
unlikely to be successful.
However, there are three reasons why research is needed:
(a)   the teaching force is enormous and therefore significant changes in teacher
compensation will have macroeconomically important budgetary consequences.
This makes it vital to get the largest possible gain in quality per additional pound
of compensation;
(b)    most current research suggests that across the board pay increases are a very
ineffective means of improving student learning (a significant amount of
research shows no link at all between increased average compensation and
student learning); and
(c)    both of the above indicate that changes in the structure of compensation, in
addition to its level, would be a more cost effective means of using pay changes
to induce improved educational outcomes for students than a simple increase
alone. However, very little is known about how different forms of compensation
will affect teacher performance.
Following is an outline of a studv to help determine the appropriate pas policy.
The essence of the study would be to randomly assign schools into different groups,
whereby each of which would receive a different "treatment, " i.e. different forms of
compensation. In order to address the range of relevant policy questions there need to be at least
the following five groups.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 7
A:    CONTROL
This set of schools would receive no change at all in school policy. Apart from
involvement in additional testing they would be treated as all other schools in the Governorate.
B:    INCREASED PAY, CONSTANT STRUCTURE
The compensation budget (including for school based administrators) for this set of
schools would be increased by n percent, but allocated according to the existing structure, so that
every individual's pay would increase by n percent. N will have to be a large number for several
reasons. First, since pay is currently very low, marginal changes would probably have no impact
at all (especially as one of the possible changes of increased compensation would be decreased
outside employment). Second, since in the incentive systems some will receive higher pay than
others and no teacher in an experiment should receive less that he or she would have in the
absence of the experiment, the average increase needs to be large.
It is important to have a group with increased pay level but unchanged structure, as this
is the most frequently proposed solution to the problem of teacher compensation.
C:    SCHOOL BASED INCENTIVE PAY BASED ON LEARNING OUTCOMES
Within this set of schools, each school would receive a payment that varied according to
its performance, with performance assessed strictly in terms of the magnitude of the learning
gains demonstrated by its students. This will obviously require detailed elaboration, but one
likely structure would be as follows.
Tests - students would take criterion referenced tests at the end of each vear (the same
tests will be administered in all schools).
School ranking - the school ranking will be based on the value added bv the school,
defined as the learning gain over and above what would have been expected for the school given
its students' background and characteristics. This would adjust raw test scores to account for the
fact that schools which receive students with better preparation and motivation are likelv to have
better raw performance, and will be a difficult task (this has been the experience in other
countries). The proposal is to test student gain in a first year before the experiment begins, and
use fiuther gain relative to that baseline as the measure of value-added. (A second possibilitv is
to use a regression of scores on background characteristics, taking the residuals as the measure of
school specific value added. This is likely to be more operationallv feasible if the scheme is
extended to many schools, but would likely introduce complications and disputes over the
regression, while performance relative to base is a more readily understandable measure).
School Bonus - the same total increase in compensation that was granted to schools in
group II will be allocated amongst this set of schools, but the magnitude of the bonus would be a
linear function of the school ranking described above.



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 7
Allocation of the school bonus - The bonus would be paid out over the year following
that in which it is eamed. There are two ways to distribute the bonus among individuals within
the school. The first it to specify a simple rule, e.g. all teachers could receive the saime bonus.
The second is to specify a procedure, e.g. the bonus could be distributed (between compensation
versus school materials) according to the results of a defined process, such as reaching
unanimous consent.
D:    INCENTIVE PAY BASED ON SCHOOL SYSTEM PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS
In this set of schools the total incremental budget would be divided so that incentive pay
is allocated on rankings of teacher performance based entirely on school system assessments.
This most closely mirrors the current system, and most educational systems, where perfonnance
rankings are not based on student tests but on general performance assessments. Currently there
are three possible sources of rankings for teacher perfonnance within the system: teachers
ranking their peers, principals and school directors ranking their teachers, and school inspectors
ranking both schools and teachers.
There is already a substantial system of incentive pay. The major problem with the
system is that there is no accountability of those that assign rankings. Since there are pressures
brought to bear by those who do not receive "incentive" pay, the easiest course of action for
those responsible for assigning rankings is to simply give everyone an identical (the highest)
ranking, so that all teachers receive the incentive pay. Therefore, in order not to simply replicate
the current system with a larger budget, two innovations will be introduced.
The total budget N available for incentives will be divided into three shares: t (teachers),
a (administration), and I (inspection). All schools will receive equal fractions of the teacher
budget (t*N) to be allocated among teachers according to their rankings within the school.
The teacher rankings will be a weighted average of: (a) peer rankings, (b) administration
(principal and director) rankings and (c) inspector rankings.
In order to preserve an incentive for the administration and inspectors to base rankings
on performance (unlike the current system) the administration incentive pay (a*N) will be based
on tests (or other objective) criteria for each individual school. Similarly the inspector budget
(i*N) will be divided among inspectors according to the performance of their schools. This
would be a crude way of bringing incentives to bear so that inspectors use their authority to
assign rankings in such a way as to improve teacher and school performance.
This altemative has two major advantages over compensation based strictly on test
assessed student leaming: educators nearly always (and sometimes for good reasons) oppose test
based compensation as being both too narrow and unfair, and this svstem is similar to the current
system.
The main research question is whether this will in practice be different than the uniform
allocation of group II.  One important feature of any time, "merit" or "incentive" pay in
education is the politically driven tendency towards universal and equal allocations.



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 7
A major alternative in design of this option is to force a distribution of rankings (the
fractions that receive each of, for example, five categories) and to force a mapping from rankings
to pay (the differences in bonus across ranking categories). While this would force some element
of merit based pay, it would not allow the assessment of how the rankings and pay would evolve.
V.    PARENT BASED INCENTIVE PAY
Parents are an as yet unmentioned constituency. Increased parental involvement and
control over schools is often proposed (by strikingly different groups, from economists to
anarcho-communalists) as a solution to monitoring problems. One obvious element is to give
control over incentive pay to parents, who could allocate it in any way they see fit, including
purchase of school equipment or, if they prefer it to additional pay for the existing teachers,
hiring new teachers.
In spite of its analytical interest, it is difficult to either conceive of an implementable
plan for parental control or imagine it working wel in the socio-economic and cultural context of
Egypt, or to imagine that educators (including education policy makers) would ever accept it.
In such a system, the important feature would be procedures for parental allocation which
would prevent its capture by small groups of parents. This is not impossible (it could be
accomplished for instance by specifying high quorums and super-majority voting for deviations
from some base allocation), but it would be complicated.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION CAPACITY AND SITE SELECTION CRITERIA
INTRODUCTION TO MOE's GENERAL AUTHORITY FOR EDUCATIONAL BUILDINGS
MOE's General Authority for Educational Buildings (GAEB) began its activities on July 6, 1990,
in five Govemorates. By 1991/92 GAEB had established branch offices covering all of Egypt's 26
Govemorates (a 27th Govemorate was created in 1995 when Luxor was split off from the Qena
Govemorate), and all technical, financial and administrative staff had been appointed. During its first
five years of operation, it was GAEB's target to add 7,500 new schools to the country's educational
infrastructure, which averages out to 1,500 new schools each year.
During the period of 1992/1995, GAEB managed to add some 4,200 new schools by October
1995, and by the end of 1995 GAEB was scheduled to create a total of 4,500 new schools, thus reaching
its target implementation rate of 1,500 new schools per year located over all of Egypt. In the areas of
rehabilitation and maintenance of school buildings, GAEB has carried out an extensive effort to reverse
the deteriorating conditions resulting from the preceding years of neglect. More specifically, during the
past five year GAEB has implemented the following activities:
1991/92 Rehabilitation and maintenance activities at 3,500 schools at a cost of LE 150 million.
1992/93 Rehabilitation and maintenance activities at 3,928 schools at a cost of LE 150 million;
firthermore, repair work was carried out at schools damaged in the October 1992 earthquake,
which included 7,808 schools at an additional cost of LE 247 million.
1993/94 Rehabilitation and maintenance for 3,000 schools at a cost of LE 100 million
1994/95 Rehabilitation and maintenance for 3,000 schools at a cost of LE 100 million
1995/96 Rehabilitation and maintenance for 3,000 schools at a cost of LE 100 million
SCOPE OF WORK OF MOE's GENERAL AUTHORITY FOR EDUCATIONAL BUILDINGS
Set up overall planning procedures for educational buildings using GAEB's school mapping
program on a national level in order to:
* determine the school building needs in each Govemorate
* estimate the budget requirements for implementation
* define the annual program for carming out implementation.
Carry out the necessary studies to establish standards and specifications for Egypt's educational
buildings according to educational systems and curricula, taking into account differences between urban
and rural settings, as well as the physical and climatic conditions of Egypt's different geographic regions.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
Develop different standard designs for school buildings at each level of pre-university education
by applying the standards and specifications defined under the above-described studies.
Manage the construction of educational buildings according to approved sets of plans, with
construction to be carried out by qualified companies in the private sector experienced in contracting in
accordance with all applicable legal procedures.
Manage the repair and maintenance of MOE's existing school buildings in accordance with an
approved plan, and continue with the ongoing program of bringing missing utility services to existing
schools.
Conduct training programs for GAEB's technical personnel to enable them to carry out their
responsibilities with improved efficiency.
Design equipment and furnishings as needed for MOE's different educational facilities and
manage their manufacture according to the specifications.
Establish a central data bank in order to supply decision makers with the necessaxy information,
improve communications between different GAEB departments and facilitate the exchange of
information between all participants
Create a department of intemational cooperation with the function to coordinate loan programs
between GAEB and the organizations providing the loans, both at GAEB's central and branch levels.
GENERAL SlELECTioN CRTERIiA
The basis for site selections is a "school mapping" system which, as of 1996, is limited to
existing enrollment and facility data. It does not yet include projections based upon population shifts or
other locally identified requirements. This aspect of the school mapping will be strengthened during the
project period through cooperation with the CAPMAS which is carfying out its decentennial population
census in 1996.
Sites for new schools and for extensions to existing schools will be made available by the
Govemorates to the Ministry of Education (MOE) free of charge. These sites will either be owned
outright by the govemment or will be leased to the govemment for a period of not less than 50 years.
Existing schools proposed to be rehabilitated, upgraded or replaced required a formal technical evaluation
by MOE's General Authority for Educational Buildings (GAEB) to confirm the appropriate intervention
and the extent of the intervention for rehabilitation, upgrading or replacement.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
DEMAND-BASED SITE SELECTION CRITERI
The GAEB will prepare a master list of eligible school sites using its school mapping capabilities
based on the following selection criteria, and the Govemorates will choose among the eligible sites. The
final school list with supporting information from GAEB's school mapping will be submitted to the
PPMU for approval during the Annual Work Plan Review. The PPMU will disburse against completed
school buildings from the approved list subject to an audit by an independent firm.
Demand Criteria for New Schools in Rural and Urban Catchment Areas:
* Present gross enrollment rate: less than 85%
* Present classroom density: greater than 40 students per class
* Present number of shifts: more than I shift
* For new communities: current student demand to be enough to fill at least one 3-classroom school
plus kindergarten
Demand Criteria for New Schools in Rural Sites (in addition to B.1):
* Present female segment of total student enrollment: less than 45%
* Walking distance for students in catchment area not to exceed:
(I) for primary school students: 1,000 m
(ii) for preparatory school students: 2,000 m
 Current student demand to be enough to fill at lease one 3-classroom school plus kindergarten
Demand Criteria for New Schools in Urban Sites (in addition to B.1):
3 Walking distance for students in catchment area not to exceed:
(I) for primary school students: 500 m
(ii) for preparatory school students: 1,500 m
* Current student demand to be enough to fill at least one 6 classroom school plus kindergarten
Demand Criteria for New 1-Classroom Schools for Girls (instead of B.1):
* Number of 8 to 14-year-old girls not currentlv in the educational svstem (catchment area less than
100 girls): up to 42 per school
* If student demand in the catchment area exceeds the maximum number for a I-classroom school (42),
an additional 1-classroom school mav need to be provided according to priorities to be determined
through an appropriate needs assessment
* Present female segment of total student enrollment: less than 40%



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
TECHNICAL SITE SELECTION CRITERIA
All school sites that have passed the above-described demand analysis will also need to pass a
technical assessment carried out by GAEB on the basis of the following considerations:
*      the land area must be adequate to contain the required school building(s) and related
outside activities, and the site must be appropriate for use as a school
*      access to the site must be adequate both for the construction of the required school
building(s) and for operating the school
*      the essential infrastructure must be available (water supply, sewage and electricity)
*      a topographic survey must show that the existing site conditions do not pose
unacceptable construction or operational constraints
*      a geotechnical soil investigation must show that the site's ground conditions are suitable
for constructing the needed facility within an acceptable cost range.
GAEB's site evaluation process will take a number of additional technical criteria into
consideration relating to environmental conditions, suitability of the site to educational activities and the
site's proximity to the recommended locations earlier identified through GAEB's school mapping
program. These additional technical criteria are available in project working papers.
9.    It is understood that an acceptable substitute site will be requested form the appropriate
Govemorate for any site which the above technical assessment has shown to be unacceptable.



ANNEx 3
Page5 of5
ORGANIGRAM OF THE GENERAL AUTHORITY FOR EDUCATIONAL BUILDINGS
His Excellency, the
Minister of Education
I  The General Director of
G.A.E.B.
^  f   |                 ~~OPERATIONAL DEPARTMENTS                                            l
Research Studies  Design of School         Maintenance               Fumiture               Finncial&
e Information           Buildings                                                             Admfinifaive
- Data and Computers  - Architectual Design                          - Standard Fuure        - Financial Affairs
- Soil Research and     Structural Design    Maintenance of Buildings    Laboratoiy Fuiture  - A is
Quality Control        -Utilities Design    - Maintenance of Ftunituie    Technical Shop     Affairs
- Research Studies    - Bilti of Quantities  - Maintenance of       Funiture                  Tendering
- Planning of School                        - Maintenance of Delicate
Buildings                                   Equipment
Public   Follow  Legal   ~~Citizen  org. &    Plnig Techia    Prin. &
Scuity   Implementation   HeaLt   up         Affairs         Service    Training             office    Supply
~~~BAC    8FFICES|l
I  Greater Cairo        Westem Delta            Northern Upper          Northem Delta
Branch Office        Branch Office        Egypt Branch Office        Branch Office
Sinai and        Middle Upper         Southern Upper
Canal Cities       Egypt Branch         Egypt Branch
Branch Office           Office               Office
Number of Personnel at Headquarters: approx. (2618) in Cairo's central office (including approximately (2615) Architects
and (1295) Engineers). GAEB's Branch Offices vary in size, depending on GAEB's activity in the Governorate. GAEB's
Cairo Headquarters is located in Nasr City and includes some (1584) full-time staff, with (408) Architects and Engineers,
(432) Technicians and (744) Administrative and Service Personnel) plus a combined total of (4034) additional staff inl
GAEB's branch offices.



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 29
LPLEMENTATION PLAN AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
FIRST YEAR
Pro-ram Area 1: Access & Equity
Ob ective 1.1:
Increase enrollment each vear by 2% forgirls and 1.2% for bovs.
Intervention 1.1.1: Construct schools based on enrollment rates, school mapping and other criteria.
Activitv                        Ino uts                          Process                          Output
1.1.1.1 Review current site     - Computerized mapping model    - Draft criteria, use model, add  - List of "x" sites which address
selection criteria and confirm  - Input from 2.1.1.1 and 2.1.2.1  input from 2.1.2.1, and conduct    priorities
their suitability regarding the                                   on-site check of sample
desired enrollment rates with
priorities to underserved areas
through visits.
1.1.1.2 Survey low enrollment    Technical assistance           - PPMU, in cooperation with      - Study results which identify
areas on community preference                                     govemorates in low enrollment    effective awareness campaign
for type of schools desired;                                      areas (girls' enrollment less than    mechanisms, with supporting
obstacles to girls' enrollment;                                   45%) creates TOR, identifies     data and analysis
parents' reasons for keeping                                      individuals or organizations with
children all out of school.                                       appropriate expertise, and lets
contract
- Contractor considers
implications of birth registration
use for armed forces service in
limiting enrollment
- Contractor considers causes of
drop-out and relationship to



ANNEx 4
Page 2 of 29
causes of non-enrollment
- Contractor conducts study or
studies in cooperation with
participating govemorates
- If USAID will begin expanded
building progran in hamlets,
ensure study precedes
construction in govemorates
1.1.1.3 Design and construct   - List of sites from 1.1.1.1   - Update prototypical school   - Monthly meetings of GAEB
classrooms in selected sites.  - Input from 3.1.1.1 and 3.1.1.2  design                      - Classrooms available for use
- National Investment Bank (NIB)  - Revise standard construction
documents
- Adapt prototypical designs to
specific sites
- Execute school construction,
according to GAEB standard
procedures, with extemal
supervision and review by the
National Investment Bank (NIB)
- Equip schools
Intervention 1.1.2: Implement awareness campaign to encourage children with special emphasis on girls' enrollment in low enrollment
areas.
1.1.2.1 Based on community     - Technical assistance         - Central and govemorate PPMUs  - Key parents and community
preference study in 1.1.1.2,   - Study results from 1.1.1.2     select awareness campaign      groups can describe content of
identify awareness campaign                                     mechanisms and design          campaign
mechanisms effective in selected                                awareness campaign            - (In year 2, increased demand for
educational mudirriya, with                                   - Execution of campaigns         enrollment of underserved
priority for underserved                                        elements                       children)
children.



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 29
Intervention 1.1.3 Recruit local female teachers based on community preference
1.1.3.1 Use results of community  - Technical assistance       - Central and govemorate PPMUs  - List available to Supreme
preference survey to identify  - Study results from 1.1. 1.2    select areas where locally      Council on Universities for
areas where locally recruited                                    recruited teachers would have a    redesign at teacher intake
female teachers would have a                                     significant impact on girls'   process in 2.3.2
significant impact on                                            enrollment
enrollment.                                                    - List of selected areas provide
input for selection of pre-service
teacher education candidates (see
2.3.1)
Intervention 1.1.4 Upgrade existing schools with necessary facilities.
1.1.4.1 Prepare needs          - Technical assistance          - "Schedule of Accommodations"  - Updated maintenance needs
assessments for upgrading                                        prepared by GAEB               documents including specific
existing school facilities,                                    - "Schedule of Accommodations"   locations and needs for upgraded
including setting minimum                                        used at govemorates, mudirriya,   facilities
facilities standards by school                                   and idarra levels to plan school
type.                                                            upgrades
1.1.4.2 Allocate resources needed  - Funds from domestic and foreign  - executive construction program    - schools upgraded based on
for implementing minimum        sources                                                         criteia
facilities standards by school
type.                                                                                        A
Intervention 1.1.5: Provide education for children with special needs.
1.1.5.1 Conduct a study to     - Technical assistance          - PPMU creates TOR, identifies    - Study results which identify
identify target populations at the                               individuals or organizations with   target populations and expected
national level.                                                  appropriate expertise, and lets  levels of enrollment (including
contract                       second chance education through
- Contractor conducts study      12/31/01), with supporting data
and analysis



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 29
Intervention: 1.1.6 Provide special assistance to attract and retain underprivileged children.
1.1.6.1 Review existing        - Existing information in Ministry  - PPMU creates TOR or study  - Study results which identify
mechanisms used for providing    of Education, CADMAS,           design, identifies needed       existing mechanisms, needs and
special assistance to            Ministry of Health, NGO, and    resources, and arranges for     gaps in services for
underprivileged children in      other appropriate sources of data   completion of study         underprivileged children, with
Egypt.                          - Technical assistance                                           supporting data and analysis
1.1.6.2 Review data in MOE     - Existing data in MOE Nutrition   - PPMU creates TOR or study   - Study results which identify
Nutrition Department, other      Department, other nation        design, identifies needed       needs for improving the quality
National agencies, and NGOs to    agencies, and NGO              resources, and arranges for     of food and delivery systems,
determine needs for improving    - Technical assistance          completion and study            with supporting data and
quality of food and delivery                                                                     analysis
systems in schools.
Obiective 1.2:
Provide second chance education for children up to 14 years old, with an emphasis on gils.
Intervention 1.2.1: Establish second chance schools or classes based on local need and community preference, including one classroom
schools.
1.2.1.1 Design and start       - Technical assistance           - GAEB refines or prepares      - Progress report identifying work
implementation of surveys to                                     standards for usable facilities,  completed and work remaining to
identify local needs, including                                  including needs of handicapped    be done
number of out-of-school                                          children
children, and to identify                                       - Contractor drafts survey, begins
community facilities suitable for                                implementation, and prepares
housing second chance                                            progress reports
education, including one
classroom schools for hamlets
with fewer than 60 school age
girls in participating
governorates.



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 29
Intervention 1.2.2: Identify means to increase demand in areas with large numbers of out-of-school children.
1.2.2.1 Use the community       - Input from 1. 1. 1.2          - PPMU reviews survey results    - Proposed strategy for MOE for
preference study in 1.1.1.2 to                                  - Identify and complete list of the    implementation
determine reasons for parents'                                    areas
keeping children out of school                                   - Propose interventions for year 2
and for children to choose to
stay out of school and propose
interventions for overcoming
obstacles.
Intervention 1.2.3: Develop, provide and supply materials relevant to second chance education.
1.2.3.1 Review second chance    - Technical assistance          - PPMU creates TOR, identifies    - Study results which identify
education materials in Egypt                                      individuals or organizations with   needs for materials development
and other countries with well-                                    appropriate expertise, and lets
developed second chance                                           contract
education systems to identify                                   - Contractor conducts study
needs for development of
additional materials (year 1 and
year 2).



ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 29
Program Area 2: Improving The Quality Of Student Performance
Objective 2.1
Reduce wastage in the svstem frpetitions and droWoutsl
Intervention 2.1.1 Eliminate multiple shifts to increase instructional time and range of student activities
Adivit                             Input                             Process                            Output
2.L1.). Construct additional       * School mapping model             * PPMU specifies TORs with         * Final plans for the overall
dassrooms to eliminate multiple    * Draft construction program from   GAEB and agrees on criteria for    building program (see 1.1.1.1)
shifts (see activity 1.1.1.1).       1.1.1.1.                           setting construction priorities (see  incorporate priorities list.
* GAEB                              2.1.2)
* GAEB, with assistance of
Govemorates, confirms locations
of schools with multiple shifts
* GAEB, with assistance of
Govemorates, prioritizes list of
schools with multiple shifts
Intervention 2.1.2 Reduce class size to an average of 40 students.
2.1.2.1 Construct additional       * School mapping model             * PPMU specifies TORs with         * Final plans for the overall
classrooms where the student       * Draft construction program from    GAEB and agrees on criteria for    building program (see 1.1.1.1)
density exceeds this average, with   1.1.1.1.                           setting construction priorities (see  incorporate priorities list.
priority being given to areas with
the highest existing student density   * GAEB                           2.1.1)
(see activity 1.1.1.1).                                               * GAEB, with assistance of



ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 29
Govemorates, confirms
locations of schools with average
class size greater than 40
* GAEB, with Govemorates,
prioritizes list of schools with
average class size greater than 40
Intervention 2.1.3 Improve the analytic basis for selecting policies to reduce wastage.
2.1.3.1 Initiate a study of the cost-  Technical assistance            * PPMU creates TOR, identifies     * Detailed outline of study
effectiveness of alternative policies                                   national or intemational          * Data collection and analyses
for reducing wastage and, on the                                        individual or agency with           completed
basis of the study, make                                                a                   and lets
recommendations for activities in                                       appropr   expese,
the second program year.                                                contract
* contractor drafts detailed outline
of study
* .PPMU reviews outline, suggests
changes as needed, and authorizes
study
* Contractor begins study
Intervention: 2.1.4 Provide student counselors and community liasion workers.
2.1.4.1   No activity in year 1.
Intervention: 2.1.5 Develop a framework of learning support teachers for students with moderate learning difficulties.
2.1.5.1  No activity in year 1.



ANNEx 4
Page 8 of 29
Objective 2.2:
Inprove the quality of teaching and learning in order to ensure that students attain basic skills to defined levels by grade 9.
Intervention 2.2.1 hnprove the use of technology in the classroom [ranging from the blackboard to the computer].
Act vity                          Ipu_t                           Process                           Output
2.2.1.1 Develop guidelines for    * Technical assistance           * Development by PPMU of TOR     * Ministerial approval of the
technology-enhanced learning in   * Equipment                        and criteria for the composition of    National Task Force
the following areas:              * Training                        the National Task Force on       * Ministerial approval of the
* tools and materials that       * Domestic and intemational study  Distance Leaming and             "Guidelines on Technology-
teachers can find or make        trips                            Technology.                       Enhanced Leaming"
* tools or aids that can best be                                  * PPMU proposes the National      * Reports, with recommendations,
distributed centrally to                                          Task Force to Minister of         reviewing the use of technology
teachers, such as maps,                                           Education for approval .          in education in selected
models, science kits                                            * Creation, by National Task Force,    govemorates.
* established media, such as                                        of national investigative teams to   * Supporting document presenting
print, radio, TV, audio, and                                      focus on specific topics in      tape, photographic and video
video                                                             participating govemorates.        evidence of current use. [to be
* emerging media, such as                                         * Review of current educational    refined in year 21
computers.                                                        practices                       * Draft handbook for completion
These guidelines should be based                                   * Identification of areas of teaching  and use in year 2.
on considerations of cost,                                           and leaming where the use of
organizational constraints at the                                    technology is feasible, affordable,
school-level, maintenance                                            practicable, and will significantly
requirements, and learning                                           contribute to the attainment of
benefits. [The guidelines will be                                    basic, problem solving and critical
used as criteria for a competitive                                   thinking skills and the
fund established in subsequent                                       development of creativity.
years.J                                                            * Task Force creates draft
"Guidelines on Technology-
Enhanced Learning" for approval
by the Minister of Education



ANNEx 4
Page 9 of 29
|* Production of needed supporting|
documents and materials
Intervention 2.2.2: Introduce a system of continuous in-service distance learning for teachers and school-level managers through the National Center
for Educational Training (NCET)
2.2.2.1 Design the structure and  * National Task Force on Distance    * PPMU creates TOR, identifies  * Reports on the training needs
organization of the NCET and        Learning and Technology (as       national or intemational           assessment, the available
develop a five-year strategic plan  created in 2.2.1.1).              individuals or organizations with  infrastructure and resources, and
and action plan for year 2 of the  * Technical Assistance             appropriate expertise, and lets   the review of international
program for the NCET, its regional  * Equipment                       contract                           experience in the area of
and local centers, and its relations    * Domestic and international study    * Contractor conducts training needs    organization, structure and
with partners, such as universities  trips                            assessment, comparing current      management of distance
and pre-service centers, ERTU,                                        teaching practice with desired     learning institutions.
EUW, TDC.                                                             teaching behavior for the        * Final report on the national
development of basic, problem     conference.
solving and critical thinking skills   * Approved five-year NCET
and creativity.                   development plan, including
* Assessment of current human and   first year action plan.
physical resources and facilities at
the local level.
* Review of intemational experience
in the area of organization,
structure and management of
distance leaming institutions.
* Task Force drafis the design of the
function, structure and organization
of the NCET, including its regional
and local centers, its relations with
partners, and needed organizational
consolidation.
* Task Force develops NCET's five-
year strategic plan and action plan
for year 2 at the national, regional
and local levels.
* Task Force holds national



ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 29
conference on distance learning to
review and endorse strategic plan.
2.2.2.2 Begin the process of      * Domestic and international       * Future NCET staff participate in    * Attained improved competence as
capacity building for the NCET and   training.                        training and international exchange    documented in reports written by
entities involved in media                                            relevant to instructional design,  participants in the program,
development and production.                                           administration and management of    concretely and operationally
distance learning, materials      specifying competencies acquired.
development, and media use.
Intervention 2.2.3: Introduce distance learning packages for classroom use for basic skills.
2.2.3.1   No activity in year 1.
Intervention 2.2.4: Introduce, through the in-service system, pedagogic strategies which raise students' higher order thinking skills to defined levels
by Grade 9.
2.2.4.1 Review current pedagogic  * National Task Force on Distance    * Task Force activities "national  * Specific standards for pedagogic
practice in all types of schools in  Learning and Technology (as      investigative team" (from 2.2.1.1)  practices found to be most
Egypt in this area and conduct a    created in 2.2.1.1).              on pedagogic strategies that faster    effective in creating higher order
literature search on practice in  * Technical assistance              higher order skills               thinking skills.
other countries with planning for a                                  * Team reviews intemational       * Developed plan for study tour,
year 2 study tour.                                                     experience, and plans intemational    specifying objectives,
study tour.                       beneficiaries, itinerary, work
requirements for participating staff
and concrete training gains to be
attained by participants.
Intervention 2.2.5: Measure students' achievement in basic skills and in higher order thinking skills for purposes of system accountability.
2.2.5.1 Begin preparing a        * Technical assistance            * PPMU, with NCEEE, creates        * Achievement tests in Arabic
baseline assessment of           * Equipment                         TOR for international technical   (reading/writing) and
student learning for grade       i Domestic and intemational         assistance on testing and         mathematics at grade 4 and 8
4 and grade 8 in the pilot         training                          assessment, identifies appropriate   * Achievement tests in science and
governorates.                    * NCEEE expenses                    individuals or organizations with  social studies at grade 8



ANNEx 4
Page 11 of 29
Support of directorate level      appropriate expertise, and lets  * Reports on test results
expenses for testing              contract.                        * Baseline data in participating
* NCEEE, with participating         govemorates
govemorates and technical        * Increased of NCEEE and
assistance, prepares plan for test  govemorate capacity for testing.
development, production,
distributions, administration,
scoring and reporting.
* PPMU reviews and approves
plan.
* NCEEE completes item bank
creation with pre-tested and
calibrated items
* NCEEE prepares tests for grades
4 and 8 in Arabic and
Mathematics and for science and
social studies in grade 8.
* NCEEE designs or contracts for
sampling plan.
* NCEEE trains personnel to
administer tests
* Tests are administered, scored
and analyzed, with reports
prepared
* NCEEE communicates results to
PPMU and to govemorates
Intervention 2.2.6: Improve the transparency and validity of teacher evaluations
No activities in year 1
Interventions 2.2.7: Create ways for teachers to continuously assess student learning as a basis for improving their teaching. These ways should be
part of the classroom routine.
No activities in year I



ANNEx 4
Page 12 of 29
Intervention 2.2.8 Create a school inspection system with objective criteria uniformly applied.
2.2.8.1 Conduct meetings           * Honoraria                       PPMU and NCEEE create TOR in        * Committee report with
between senior members             * NCEEE expenses                  consultation with govemorates and     recommendations for creation and
of the inspectorates in the                                          local faculties of education.         implementation of national,
participating governorates                                           A joint committee is set up and       govemorate, and district level
and the NCEEE school                                                 tasked                                school inspection teams under
inspection unit to create                                            Committee reports to NCEEE and        NCEEE leadership.
school inspection teams                                              PPMU
from the national through
the district levels.
Intervention 2.2.9: Develop a merit basis for teachers' promotion.
No activity in year I
Objective 2.3:
Improve quality of pre-service training program
Intervention 2.3.1 Establish an Improvement Fund, disbursed on a competitive basis to pre-service training institutions for improving the quality
of facilities, staff, and program, proposals being based on outside evaluations of the institution that reflect quality performance criteria.
Activity                           Input                             Process                             Output
2.3.1.1 Establish goals, criteria,  a Technical assistance            * PPMU, in cooperation with the    * Draft goals, criteria (e.g.
and indicators for evaluating pre-    * Supreme Council of the          Supreme Council of the             curriculum, library, faculty), and
service training institutions,       Universities (SCU)                 Universities, creates TOR,         indicators with weights.
based on international standards     Uier ities                        Uivensitifies, creat  or         o      M in  isterial approved goals,
and experience, and with wide      * Sector Committee                   identifies idividual or            criteria, and weighted indicators.
consultation with the affected                                          organization with
institutions.                                                           appropriate expertise, and lets



ANNEX 4
Page 13 of 29
contract
* Benchmarking and experience in
other countries are reviewed to
provide a basis for establishing
initial criteria and indicators
* Teacher training institutions
review draft criteria.
* Draft criteria are finalized and
forwarded to the Sector
Committee and (pending review)
to the Supreme Council for
consideration
* Draft criteria are forwarded to the
Minister of Higher Education for
approval.
Interventions: 2.3.2 Raise quality of students entering pre-service training institutions.
2.3.2.1 Based on an analysis of     * Technical assistance             * PPMU creates TOR, identifies     * Draft policy recommendations
the nature and extent of quality    * Supreme Council of the             individual or organization with    regarding changes in recruiting
problems with intake, make
probleommendathionsto thke SuprUniversities                              appropriate expertise, and lets    and/or admissions policies and
Council for Universities on         * Secondary School Leaving           contract                           practices
changes in the intake process.        Examination results              * Contractor reviews data relevant    * Recommendations approved by
* Input from 1.1.3.1                to the colleges' current            the Supreme Council of the
admissions experience: students    Universities.
selecting pre-service teacher
training as opposed to students
selecting other options, and
conducts brief sample



ANNEX 4
Page 14 of 29
survey to determine reasons for
student choice
Contractor prepares
recommendations for the
Supreme Council for Universities
Interventions: 2.3.3 Develop a system for ranking pre-service training institutions in terms of program quality
2.3.3.1  No activity in year 1.
Intervention 2.3.4 Establish a one-year paid and supervised internship in the schools for teachers prior to permanent employment.
2.3.4.1 Prepare proposals for     * Technical assistance             * PPMU creates TOR, identifies   * Draft proposal
operating an internship year that    * Honoraria                      individual or organization with    * Minister approved plan
addresses problems of             * Sector Committee                   appropriate expertise, and lets
management and quality            * Supreme Council of Universities    contract
supervision.                                                         * PPMU creates Task Force of pre-
service teacher education
leadership and
headmasters/mistresses
(representing typical institutions
in which interns will be placed)
* Consultant reviews international
experience to find warnings of
errors or problems made in other
settings and presents to Task
Force
* Task Force designs outstanding
intemship program for the
Egyptian context



ANNEX 4
Page 15 of 29
* Draft proposal is forwarded to the
Sector Committee and (pending
review) to the Supreme Council
of Universities for consideration
* Draft proposal is forwarded to the
Minister of Higher Education for
approval.
Intervention 2.3.5: Create a system for the MOE to use in licensing new teachers.
No activity in year 1.
Objective 2.4:
Build capacity of agencies key to implementing the quality component of EEP
Interventions: 2.4.1 Strengthen capacity of national implementing agencies related to educational quality, such as NCEEE.
2.4.1.1 Enhance capacity at      * Technical assistance           * PPMU creates TOR, identifies   * Development plan
NCEEE in testing, assessment,    * Equipment                        individual/organization with   * Initial implementation (e.g.
and school inspection.           * Needs assessment of NCEEE        appropriate expertise, and lets  training/equipment purchase and
* Domestic and intemational       contract                         installation)
training                       * NCEEE and consultant draft
* NCEEE expenses                  development plan for overall
capability of the NCEEE
* development plan, training and
equipment purchases are initiated



ANNEX 4
Page 16 of 29
2.4.1.2 Identify other implementing   * Technical assistance          * If implementation of other       * Depends
agencies relevant to quality and, as                                   Program Area 2 components
appropriate, conduct needs                                             indicates the need for significant
assessment and enhance capacity.                                        input from other agencies with
insufficient capacity, conduct
needs assessment and specify
capacity building activities for
Year 2
Intervention: 2.4.2 Build capacity at the governorate level for in-service teacher learning, school inspection, and school management.
2.4.2.1 Examine capacity building    * Govemorate-level PPMUs         * Review capacity of local agencies   * Capacity building needs and plan
needs in collaboration with        * Technical assistance              to participate in components of    for appropriate agencies
participating governorates and                                          Program Area 2 and make initial
take appropriate action.                                                detennination of possible
candidates for needs assessment
and capacity building activities
Specify capacity building
activities, and plan for Year 2
2.4.2.2 In a collaboration between    * Inspectors General            * Define the functions and         * Completed plan for development
the NCET task force and            * Technical assistance               performance expectations for     * Minister approved plan
inspectors general of the          * Govemorate-level PPMUs             Master Teachers; the criteria and
participating governorates, plan
for development of a cadre of      * NCET Task Force (as created in     mechanisms for their selection
master teachers to guide group       2.2.1.1)                           into the cadre, their compensation
learning in the local in-service                                        and training requirements; and
training centers to be established.                                     their relationships to current
Inspectors, teachers, and school
managers
* Forward plan to MOE



ANNEx 4
Page 17 of 29
Propram Area 3: System Efficiencv
Obiective 3. 1:
Improve efficiency of human. physical and financial resource use.
Intervention 3.1.1: Introduce cost saving changes in school designs including modifications to teaching: non-teaching space utilization and
architectural designs.
Activity                        Input                           Process                         Output
3.1.1.1 Adopt design changes to   - Ministerial approval for revision   - Orientation of all GAEB  - New schools planned and built
improve space utilization      - Technical assistance            govemorate offices by GAEB       according to redesign (see
through modifications to the                                    - Review and redesign existing    1. 1.1).
balance of teaching and non-                                     system
teaching rooms and through
reductions of corridor width by
one-half meter.
3.1.1.2 Design and introduce a    - Technical assistance        - Training by GAEB              - New construction meets
system to ensure construction                                                                     specifications and the "Schedule
quality control.                                                                                  of Accommodations" as verified
by the National Investment
Bank (NIB), supervisory
missions, and the PPMU
Intervention 3.1.2: Improve efficiency of use of teaching and non-teaching staff.
Intervention 3.1.2.1: Assessment of existing conditions is planned for year 2.



ANNEX 4
Page 18 of 29
Obiective 3.2
Improve accuracy and relevance of data for educational plannin, and management.
Intervention 3.2.1: Establish a national system of educational statistics collection and analysis which includes the Al-Azhar system and
Egyptian students abroad.
3.2.1.1 Review existing data    - Technical assistance           - Requirements analysis; review    - Draft specifications for new
collection and analysis systems                                    of existing systems;             system with supporting
in central and governorate level                                   specifications by Task Force as  documentation.
educational agencies; identify                                     assisted by technical assistance.
gaps and further needs; and
suggest mechanisms to integrate
and coordinate existing systems
to achieve identified needs (year
1 to 4).
3.2.1.2 In consultation and     - Technical Assistance           - Requirements analysis, review    - Draft specifications for new
cooperation with relevant       - Coordination among relevant      of existing systems;             system with supporting
authorities, develop a            organizations                    specifications by Task Force as  documentation.
comprehensive financial data                                       assisted by technical assistance.
system for basic education,
including data necessary for
managerial accounting of
human and financial resources,
as a tool for maximizing system
efficiency.
Intervention 3.2.2: Develop and link existing data bases in GAEB and the MOE to the new system.
3.2.2.1 Activities in 3.2.1.1 above  - Technical Assistance      - Requirements analysis; review    - Draft specifications for new
will also serve as the annual     - Coordination among relevant    of existing systems;             system with supporting
work plan for this intervention    organizations                   specifications by Task Force for    documentation.
with further action contingent                                     linkage and integration, as
on establishment of the national                                I assisted by technical assistance. I
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _.  I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1  



ANNEx 4
Page 19 of 29
system (year 1 to 2).
Objective 3.3:
Introduce mechanisms to enhance motivation and accountabilitv of teachers and administrators at all levels.
Intervention 3.3.1 Make policy recommendations on restructuring the compensation system for teachers and administrators.
3.3.1.1 Conduct Teacher        - Technical assistance          - Specification for economic    - Study design approved by
Motivation studies, including  - Specifications for the economic    study reviewed by PPMU      relevant Ministries
monetary compensation and        study                         - PPMU creates TOR, identifies
non-monetary factors which                                      individuals or organizations with
effect the conditions and                                       appropriate expertise, and lets
incentives of teacher                                           contract
employment; make alternative                                   - Research team selected for
recommendations for                                             economic study
modifications to employment                                    - Study design finalized/approved
condition and compensation                                      by PPMU
systems (year 1-4).
Intervention 3.3.2 Introduce a performance-based rewards/sanctions system for teachers and administrators separate from salary system.
3.3.2.lActivity in 3.3.1.1 will  - Information about existing  - Discuss possible incentives for  Proposed incentive plan
serve as the annual work plan   incentive systems                consideration by Govemorates,
for this intervention; National                                  which will include in workplan
system plan for year 2 or 3.                                     as appropriate
Develop governorate level
reward mechanisms as part of
governorate plan.
Intervention 3.3.3 Increase community and parental involvement in school management.
3.3.3.1 Coordinate with        - Technical assistance          - PPMU creates TOR, identifies    - Govemorates include local



ANNEX 4
Page 20 of 29
organizations implementing                                      individuals or organizations with   strategies in their plan
community based education                                       appropriate expertise, and lets
programs and make relevant                                      contract
information available to the                                   - Report on altemative models is
Governorates.                                                   completed and discussed with
Govemorates
Intervention 3.3.4 Provide in-service training to educational managers, by suitable means including study abroad.
3.3.4.1 Conduct a needs        - Technical assistance          - Establish Task Force with     - Draft recommendations from
assessment for school managers,                                 representation of govemorates   Task Force
idarra and mudirriya level                                      and relevant organizations
educational managers; and                                      - PPMU creates TOR, identifies
review logistics of present in-                                 individuals or organizations with
service training system for                                     appropriate expertise, and lets
educational managers and                                         contract
compare with systems in other                                  - Conduct needs assessment
countries and make                                             - Task Force review study results
recommendations for                                              and prepares recommendations
improvement.
Obiective 3.4:
Ensure effective central and local management of the Education Enhancement Programs
Intervention 3.4.1 Establish an adequately staffed and funded PPMU with full authority for program implementation.
3.4.1.1 Ensure issuance of     - Completed and approved plan    - Completed                    - Ministerial decree
ministerial decree establishing  for PPMU
Program Planning and
Management Unit (PPMU).
3.4.1.2 Establish functions,   - Technical assistance          - Identify functions and        - Approved organigram and
responsibilities, and procedures                                 relationships with implementing    description of functions
of the PPMU.                                                     organizations and govemorates   - Approval by relevant Ministries



ANNEX 4
Page 21 of 29
- Draft organigram and
description of functions
- Ensure functions/procedures are
in compliance with Government
regulations
3.4.1.3 Identify staffing needs,    - Technical assistance    - Identify staffng needs, criteria   - Staff performance according to
recruit and train staff.       - Job descriptions               for selection, and assign staff  requirements
- Assess taining needs and
develop plan
- Identify appropriate resource
persons or organizations to
conduct training
- Implement training program
3.4.1.4 Develop operational    - Technical assistance         - Develop "Operations Manual"    - Approved comprehensive, field-
manual, including internal     - Requirements as specified by   and field test with users      tested manual
procedures and mechanisms for    govermment and donors        - Obtain approval of relevant
coordination with other agencies                                agencies
and units.
Intervention 3.4.2 Establish program units at the Governorate level.
3.4.2.1 Design structure of    - Structure and function of the  - Identify function and       - Approved Govemorate PPMU
PPMU counterpart units at the   central PPMU                    relationships with Govemorate   structure and notification by
educational mudirriya level,   - "Guidelines for Planning"      level implementing              Minister
including identification of                                     organizations, appropriate
functions, responsibilities,                                    mudirriyas, and idarras
procedures, staffing and                                      - Draft organigram and
equipment requirements and                                      description of functions
obtain needed administrative                                  - Ensure functions/procedures are
approvals to establish local                                   in compliance with govemorate
PPMU counterparts.                                              regulations



ANNEX 4
Page 22 of 29
3.4.2.2 Establish adequately  - Selection of govemorates     - PPMU orients key personnel at   - Key personnel can articulate
staffed PPMU counterpart units  - Criteria for selection of    govemorate level               plan and Govemorate PPMU
at the educational mudimiya     personnel                    - Selection and assignment of    staff assigned, equipped and
level.                                                         personnel                      working
- Initiate procurement of
equipment
3.4.2.3 Formulate a training  - Technical assistance          - Assess training needs and    - Trained staff perfoming tasks
plan for PPMU counterpart staff - Staff assigned with job      develop plan                   according to plan
and start training and          description                  - Identify appropriate resource
orientation of PPMU                                            personnel and/or organizations
counterpart units at the                                     - Contract training resources
educational mudirriya level.                                  - Implement training program
Obiective 3.5:
Strengthen propram implementing units at central and educational mudirriva levels to fulfill responsibilities in annual workplans
Intervention 3.5.1 Ensure integration of PPMU planning exercises with MOE and other implementing agencies.
3.5.1.1 Establish a coordinating   - List of implementing agencies    - Refine TOR for the Committee   - Effective working committee
Committee (CC) with regular    - "Operations Manual"          - Identify membership           with coordination of first year
membership composed of senior                                 - Orient Committee on EEP and   annual work plan across
policy makers from from the                                    TOR                            responsible agencies
PPMU and other relevant                                       - Convene regular meetings and    - Well articulated plan for
educational agencies and ad-hoc                                take action minutes            implementation with responsible
membership as needed from                                                                     organizations designated
non-educational agencies.
3.5.1.2 Establish Policy Steering   - Membership of Policy Steering   - Refine TOR for the committee    - Effective guidance for study
Committee (PSC) with            Committee approved by relevant  - Identify membership         designs provided by Policy
membership of senior makers     Ministries and participating  - Orient Committee on EEP and    Committee
from relevant agencies to review    organizations              TOR



ANNEX 4
Page 23 of 29
and monitor work undertaken                                  - Convene regular meetings and
and to review any forward                                      take action minutes
policy recommendations to the
Minister of Education.
3.5.1.3 Identify appropriate  - Existing Govermnent guidelines  - Set compensation acceptable to   - Effective working committee
compensation for advisory                                      members and PPMU               and regular member attendance,
bodies and committee members                                 - Disperse payments according to    as documented by action
and identify and implement                                     meetings convened and member   minutes of meetings
mechanism for providing                                        participation, documenting with
compensation.                                                  receipts
Intervention 3.5.2 Establish a mechanism for continuous assessment of capacity building needs in implementing agencies.
3.5.2.1. Identify criteria and  - Technical assistance        - Prepare criteria and guidelines    - Written guidelines
establish guidelines for                                     - Orient partnership organizations  - Specified capacity building
evaluation studies of central and                            - Ensure that self-evaluations are    requirements
educational mudirriya level                                    included in all work plans
implementing agencies and
ensure that such activities are
included in their plans.
3.5.2.2 Develop mechanism for   - Written guidelines from 3.5.2.1   - Develop procedures for regular   - Quarterly assessment reports
regular evaluation of central                                  collection of needed infornation  - Annual progress reports
and educational mudirriya level                                (at least quarterly)
implementing agencies in                                      - Assess infonnation and provide
cooperation with donor                                         feedback to PPMU and
agencies.                                                      mudirriya implementation
organizations, senior advisors,
and the Coordinating Committee
- Prepare brief quarterly reports of
progress and problems for
Minister and donors



ANNEX 4
Page 24 of 29
Intervention 3.5.3 Establish a capacity building fund for training, studies, national and foreign technical assistance, study visits and other
capacity building measures.
3.5.3.1 Establish criteria for  - Criteria for capacity building  - Develop "Guidelines and    - Proposals submitted by
capacity building proposals in  proposals                       Procedures Manual" and orient   participating organizations
implementing agencies at the   - Technical assistance           participating organizations
central and educational                                        - PPMU creates TOR, identifies
mudirriya levels, and criteria for                               individual or organization with
appraisal and approval of                                        appropriate expertise, and lets
proposals.                                                       contract
- Assist participating
organizations in development of
proposals
3.5.3.2 Establish a separate fund  - Donor criteria for Fund   - In cooperation with donor     - Fund established and initial
for capacity building proposals.    establishment                agencies, agree on level of    financial resources available
financial and use of funds
- Establish compliance and
accountability guidelines for
managing the Fund
Obiective 3.6:
Integrate Governorate agencies in nlanning and implementation to ensure consistency of propram components with local conditions and to
ensure local support
Intervention 3.6.1 Phase implementation of program activities in selected Governorates.
3.6.1.1 Identify criteria and  - Technical assistance          - Develop a "Readiness          - Approved and available
mechanism for sequencing the                                     Checklist" for mudirriya        "Readiness Checklist"
participation of all educational                                 participation
mudimiya to phase
implementation of program of
local interventions.



ANNEX 4
Page 25 of 29
3.6.1.2 Convene a Conference to   - Technical assistance       - Prepare for and conduct a     - Report of Conference
be attended by educational                                      Conference before July, 1997    Proceedings
mudirriya and idarra personnel                                                                 - List of govemorates expressing
at which the following program                                                                  interest in participating
would be presented and
discussed: purpose and content
of objectives and interventions;
role of central and educational
mudirriya level implementing
agencies in activity design and
implementation.
3.6.1.3 Select additional      - Approved and available        - Assess readiness and needs of    - Minister-approved designation
educational mudirriya for second   "Readiness Checklist"         potential participating        of govemorates for Year 2
year program implementation,   - Report of Conference           govemorates and prioritize list
using criteria and mechanism    Proceedings                      of interested govemorates
established in 3.6.1.1 and results  - List of governorates expressing   - Propose govemorates for Year 2,
of Conference in 3.6.1.2.       interest in participating       with supporting justification, for
consideration by Policy Advisor
and Brain Trust
- Forward recommendations to
Minister
Intervention 3.6.2 Prepare Governorate plans for a subset of program components
3.6.2.1 Issue guidelines for single  - Draft "Guidelines for Planning    - Revise and finalize "Guidelines   - Minister-approved "Final
year and five year horizons for  at the Local Level"             for Planning at the Local Level"   Guidelines for Planning at the
content and sequencing of      - Technical assistance           by July, 1997, based on         Local Level"
educational mudirriya level                                      experience in working with the
activity plans.                                                 first two govemorates
3.6.2.2 Provide assistance to  - Technical assistance          - Convene monthly meetings with  - Written progress reports
educational mudirriya level    - "Final Guidelines for Planning  mudirriya PPMU during first six  - Draft govemorate plans
PPMU counterpart units to       at the Local Level"             months, with technical         - Final govemorate plans
conduct planning and revision                                    assistance as required, to



ANNEX 4
Page 26 of 29
of activities identified at the                              develop draft govemorate plan
local level.                                                - Finalize govemorate plan by
July, based on feedback from
3.6.2.3 below
- After July, 1997, convene
meetings of mudirrya PPMU to
monitor results, provide
feedback, and initiate
adjustments, as needed
3.6.2.3 Appraise and approve  - Draft govemorate plan       - Review mudirriya level      - Approved govemorate plans
educational mudirriya level                                   activities with Coordinating  - Implementation in participating
activity plans in accordance with                             Committee                     govemorates
guidelines for content and                                  - Provide feedback to mudirrzya
sequencing developed in activity                              PPMU with proposed revisions
3.6.3.1.                                                      and suggested improvements, as
needed
- Review revised govemorate
plans and submit to Minister for
approval, after acceptance by
Coordinating Committee by,
July, 1997
- Begin implementation
Intervention 3.6.3 Link implementation of central interventions to Governorate plans.
3.6.3.1 Establish a mechanism  - Central govemorate work plans   - Hold at least quarterly meetings  - Coordinated, timely workplan
for regular series of         - Progress reports of govemorates   between the central and   implementation
coordination meetings including   and implementing agency     govemorate level PPMUs,
central PPMU, educational      perfonnance                    including implementing
mudimiya level PPMU                                           organizations as needed
counterpart units, and
implementing agencies.



ANNEX 4
Page 27 of 29
3.6.3.2 Central PPMU to assist   - Central and govemorate work    - Hold at least quarterly meetings  - Coordinated, timely workplan
educational mudirriya level     plans                          between the central and        implementation
PPMU counterpart units and    - Progress reports of govemorates   govemorate level PPMUs,
implementing agencies to        and implementing agency        including implementing
formulate plans for and agree on   performance                 organizations as needed
local implementation of national
plan.
Intervention 3.6.4 Establish Governorate and central advisory bodies with local education specialists, NGOs, business people, and
prominent individuals.
3.6.4.1 Establish advisory    - TOR for govemorate PPMUs    - Govemorate-level "Supreme      - Operational advisory bodies
bodies, and coordinate with                                    Consultative Committee" (SCC)    with action minutes available
existing local and mudirriya level                             identifies members of advisory
educational bodies.                                            bodies
- Advisory bodies constitutes
Intervention 3.6.5 Establish national and Governorate awareness campaigns to engender support for program components.
3.6.5.1 Ensure that the       - "Strategic Framework"        - National awareness campaign    - Key personnel at idarra and
governorate plans include     - "Guidelines for Govemorate     development scheduled for Year   community level can articulate
awareness activities directed at    Level Planning"            2                              EEP objectives relevant to their
the idarra and community level,                              - Govemorate PPMU, assisted by    environment
in order to gain support for                                   PPMU, defines targeted
implementation of the EEP.                                     organizations and groups,
prepares orientation materials
(adapted, as needed, to each
targeted subgroup)
- Using mudirnya level
Inspectorate, NGOs, and
technical assistance as necessary,
implement awareness program



ANNEx 4
Page 28 of 29
Objective 3.7:
Establish feedback mechanisms for onpoink assessment and modifications of program activities.
Intervention 3.7.1 Develop baseline and follow-up surveys to measure changes in process and performance indicators effected by program
interventions.
3.7.1.1 Develop process and    - Existing national and NGO data  - PPMU creates TOR, identifies    - Revised or confirmed
performance indicators for     - Technical assistance           appropriate individual or       Performance Indicators and data
baseline and follow-up surveys.                                 organization, and lets contract  elements
- Contractor reviews SAR
Performance Indicators and
confirns or modifies data
collection needs
3.7.1.2 Coordinate with relevant  - Existing Egyptian agencies  - Appropriate implementing     - Defined base-line and follow-up
implementing agencies to design  - Technical assistance (same as  agencies are identified       surveys
and conduct baselines surveys    3.7.1.1)                      - Data elements are analyzed and   - Completed report on base-line
suitable for linkage with follow-                               base-line surveys defined        surveys
up surveys to measure effect of                                - Base-line surveys are analyzed
interventions on system                                         to determine follow-up survey
processes and performance.                                       needs
- Base-line surveys are conducted,
data analyzed, and report
prepared
Intervention 3.7.2 Establish a mechanism for feedback, evaluation and action-oriented research indicated by program progress.
3.7.2.2 Identify criteria for  - Coordinating Committee,       - Create a Task Force from among  - Draft "Criteria and Guidelines
action oriented research         PPMU, and operating             representatives of Coordinating  for Action Oriented Research in
proposals in implementing        govemorate PPMUs                Committee, PPMU, participating   the EEP"
agencies and the central and                                     govemorate PPMUs, and
educational mudimya levels and                                   relevant implementing agencies
establish a mechanism for                                       to estahlish draft cnriteria and



ANNEX 4
Page 29 of 29
providing assistance.                                              guide}ines for action oriented
research proposals
3.7.2.3 Establish peer group    - Task Force from 3.7.2.2        - Using the Task Force created in   - Draft "Criteria and Procedures
review panel to appraise and                                       3.7.2.2, establish draft criteria  for Establishing Peer Review
approve of action oriented                                         and procedures for establishing  Panels"
research proposals.                                                and identifying members of Peer  - Constituted Peer Review panels,
Review panels                    if needed
- Establish Peer Review panels, as
needed
3.7.2.4 Establish a separate fund  - Donor criteria for Fund     - In cooperation with donor      - Fund established and initial
for action oriented research.   establishment                      agencies, agree on level of      financial resources available
financial allocation and use of
funds
- Establish compliance and
accountability guidelines for
.__ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _   _ _ _ _ __ _ _ ___   managing  the  Fund



ANNEX 5
Page I of 7
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
THE MENISTER
Kemal Devis
Vice Prident
Middle East & North Africa Region
The World Bank
De3r Mtr. Dervis,
In the context of the ongoing collaboration between The Arab Republic of Egypt
and the World Bank in the field of educadon I would hike to reiterate for you the polEcy of
the Govenment of Egypt in regard to the delivery of basic education.
The provision of a qualitv basic education to al children holds a central place in
the development policy of the Egyptian Governiment n 1991, President Mubarak
obsavred that, "Education in Egypt continues to suffer from a predominant focus on
quantity at the expense of qualty in an attempt to provide an educational opportuy for
all cluldren. The present system of education does not help face the chlenges of the new
ea as it is bow the standard reqired.for Egypt aS a leading country. In spite ofthe fact
that educalion achausts the resourcer of the national budget and individual families, the
end-product remains poor and inadequate."
In order to address and correct the problems which the President pointed out, he
declared that the Egyptian govenument must, 'support the Ministry of Education to design
a Comprehensive plan of reform wlich is complete, radical and responsive to our
increasing needs. Our current five year plan is an knportant step towards the achient
of this goal as promoting education is our path to the new world map, the awds and basis of
our national security and our means to compete in domestic and foreign markets. We
must agree that the coming few years are the years for developing Egypt's culture and
education system  We must not understimate the human and financial resources which
will be necessary to carry out this goal."
Maor efforts have been undertaken sinc:e President Mubarak initiatad the curnt
efforts to improve Egypt's education system in 1991. In an effort to keep pace with rapid
population growth in the basic educarion age co!zcrt, enrollments ha've increased by eleven
percent Public financing for eduicatio-L which has rnsen by one third in real ermns no
claims over five percent of national income.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 7
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
THE MINISTER
Egypt is now embariing on a major eifort to imProve the quality of basic
education, in line with the priorities identiBed by President Mubarak, through improving
teaching and leaning processes in the educaLion systeTL Tne Strategic Framework for the
development of the basic education system. which is attached to tis letter is the policy
statemrent of the Government with regard to its basic education progamL The
Goveanment's policy emnphasizes three areas: increasirig access to compulsory education,
particularly for girls and underprivileged children= improving the quality of education
through reducing wastage and ensuring the atainment of basic sldlls to a grade nine level,
and; improving systern efficienc by enhancing resource use, planning and managemert,
and accountability of teachers and systemn managers.
In order to ensure t-icient resources areavailable to achieve its objectives i
compulsory education, the Governent will mainn its total educational expenditures at
no less than the current level of nineteen percent of total public acrent and investmen
expenditure, and will ensure that at least fifty percent of Government-education -
expenditure is allocated to compulsory education. In addition, the Government is
committed to allocating no less than fifteen percent of current expendturs in basic
education to non-wage educational expenditures.
In air programn areas in basic education, a major priority of the Goverannt"s
poicy is to build capaci-alo  v els to plan and mane   implementation of relevant
program activities. Program planning will be aimed at determiang and fiffirig the needs
of local areas, particularly undeprvileged areas, and will be conducted at the Goverorat
level through an itensive paticipatory process. This wll ensure both impleme6tation of
central initiatives at the Govemorate leve in a manner appropriate to local condidons, as
well as the development and implementation of local initiatives.
The attached Strategic Framework was developed through a process incorpoerag
education professionals from various level ofthe system in technical panes which
provided inputs for decision making at the policy level These panels were conveed by
the Program Planing and Management Unit ofthe Ministry of Educaton, which will
coordinate implernentation of the Srategic Framework. The Government is commted to
condnuing the process of convening technical panels to provide input for the development
of Annual Work Plans which idena in detail the steps needed to implement interventions
adopted in the Strategic Framework The Governrnent will ensure that the Program
Planning and Management Unit will receive financial and institutional support adequate to
ensure that it is effective in continuing this process.
{         6  ~~~6- MX
Dr. Hussain     Baaha El-Din
Minister of Education
Arab Republic of Egypt



ANNEx 5
Page 3 of 7
Attachment 1
STRATEGIC FRAm[EWORK
1.1 Increase enrollment each year by 2% for    1.1.1 Construct schools based on enrollment
girls and 1.2% for boys.                    rates, school mapping and other criteria.
1.1.2 Implement awareness campaign to
encourage children with special emphasis
on girls enrollment in low enrollment
areas.
1.1.3 Recruit local female teachers based on
community preference
1.1.4 Upgrade existing schools with necessary
facilities.
1.1.5 Provide education for children with special
needs
1.1.6 Provide special assistance to attract and
retain underprivileged children.
1.2 Provide second chance education for   1.2.1 Establish second chance schools or classes
children up to 14 years old, with an        based on local need and community
emphasis on girls.                          preference, including one classroom
schools.
1.2.2 Identify means to increase demand in areas
with large numbers of out of school
children.
1.2.3 Develop, provide and supply materials
relevant to second chance education.
2.1 Reduce wastage in the system [repetitions   2.1.1 Eliminate multiple shifts to increase
and dropouts].                              instructional time and range of student
activities.
2.1.2 Reduce class size to an average of 40
students.
2.1.3 Improve the analytic basis for selecting
policies to reduce wastage.
2.1.4 Provide student counselors and
communitv liasion workers.
2.1.5 Develop a cadre of learning support
teachers for students with moderate
leaming difficulties.
2.2 Improve the quality of teaching and   2.2.1 Improve the use of technology in the
leaming in ozder to ensure that students    classroom [ranging from the blackboard
attain basic skills to defined levels by    to the computer].
grade 9.                               2.2.2 Introduce a system of continuous distance
in-service learning for teachers and
school-level managers through the
National Center for Educational Training



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 7
(NCET).
2.2.3 Introduce distance learning packages for
classroom use for basic skills.
2.2.4 Introduce, through the in-service system,
pedagogic strategies which raise students'
higher order thinking skills to defined
levels by grade 9.
2.2.5 Measure students' achievement in basic
skills and in higher order thinking skills
for purposes of system accountability.
2.2.6 Improve the transparency and validity of
teacher evaluations.
2.2.7 Create ways for teachers to continuously
assess student learning as a basis for
improving their teaching. These ways
should be part of the classroom routine.
2.2.8 Create a school inspection system with
objective criteria uniformly applied.
2.2.9 Develop a merit basis for teachers'
promotion.
2.3 Improve quality of pre-service training  2.3.1 Establish an Improvement Fund, disbursed
program.                                      on a competitive basis to pre-service
training institutions for improving the
quality of facilities, staff, and program,
proposals being based on outside
evaluations of the institution that reflect
qualitv performance criteria.
2.3.2 Raise quality of students entering pre-
service training institutions.
2.3.3 Develop a system for ranking pre-service
training institutions in terms of program
quality.
2.3.4 Establish a one-year paid and supervised
internship in the schools for teachers prior
to permanent employment.
2.3.5 Create a svstem for the MOE to use in
licensing new teachers.
2.4 Build capacity for implementing qualitv  2.4.1 Strengthen capacity of national
component of EEP.                             implementing agencies related to
educational quality, such as NCEEE.
2.4.2 Build capacity at the govemorate level for
in-service teacher learning, school
inspection, and school management.



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 7
3.1 Improve efficiency of human, physical   3.1.1 Introduce cost saving changes in school
and financial resource use.             designs including modifications to
teaching:non-teaching space utilization
and architectural designs.
3.1.2 Improve efficiency of use of teaching and
non-teaching staff.
3.2 Improve accuracy and relevance of data  3.2.1 Establish a national system of educational
for educational planning and            statistics collection and analvsis which
management.                             includes the Al-Azhar system and
Egyptian students abroad
3.2.2 Develop and link existing data bases in
GAEB and the MOE to the new system.
3.3 Introduce mechanisms to enhance    3.3.1 Make policy recommendations on
motivation and accountability of        restructuring the compensation system for
teachers and administrators at all levels.  teachers and administrators
3.3.2 Introduce a performance-based
rewards/sanctions system for teachers and
administrators separate from salary
system.
3.3.3 Increase community and parental
involvement in school management.
3.3.4 Provide in-service training to educational
managers, by suitable means including
study abroad.
3.4 Ensure effective central and local  3.4.1 Establish an adequately staffed and
management of the Education             funded PPMU with full authority for
Enhancement Program.                    program implementation
3.4.2 Establish program units at the
Govemorate level.
3.5 Strengthen program implementing units  3.5.1 Ensure integration of PPMU planning
at central and educational mudirriva    exercises with MOE and other
levels to fulfill responsibilities in annual  implementing agencies
workplans.                         3.5.2 Establish a mechanism for continuous
assessment of capacity building needs in
implementing agencies.
3.5.3 Establish a capacity building fund for
training, studies, national and foreign
technical assistance, study visits and
other capacit building measures.
3.6 Integrate Govemorate agencies in   3.6.1 Phase implementation of program
planning and implementation to ensure   activities in selected Govemorates
consistency of program components  3.6.2 Prepare Govemorate plans for a subset of
with local conditions and to ensure local  program components.
support.                           3.6.3 Link implementation of central
interventions to Govemorate plans.



ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 7
3.6.4 Establish Govemorate and centmal
advisory bodies with local education
specialists, NGOs, business people, and
prominent individuals.
3.6.5 Establish national and Govemorate
awareness campaigns to engender support
for program components.
3.7 Establish feedback mechanisms for  3.7.1 Develop baseline and follow-up surveys
ongoing assessment and modifications   to measure changes in process and
of program activities.                 perfornance indicators effected by
program interventions.
3.7.2 Establish a mechanism for feedback,
evaluation and action-oriented research
indicated by program progress.



ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 7
Attachment 2
OUTCOMIE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Program Area 1: Increasing access and equity
Indicator #1: Placement of new schools, based on school mapping and community surveys,
has enabled both increased enrollment and decreased overcrowding.
Measured bv: Total national enrollment = Base + Population Increase, students in multiple
shifts have been reduced to less than 30%.
Indicator #2: Girls' enrollment has increased significantlv in govemorates in which girls are
currently underserved.
Measured by: In each Govemorate, girls' enrollment has increased bv at least the rate of
population growth; in Govemorate where girls enrollment rates are below the national average,
girls enrollment grew by an additional I percent over the previous year.
Proeram Area 2: Improvin! the quality of student Derformance
Indicator #3: In govemorates participating in years 1 and 2, childrens' basic skills have
increased.
Measured bv: Based on measures that are standardized and comparable over time, children in
govemorates participating in years 1 and 2 show an increase (value added) in basic skills
significantly higher than those increases in non-participating govemorates.
Indicator #4: In govemorates participating in years 1 and 2, childrens' critical thinking skills
have increased.
Measured bv: Based on measures that are standardized and comparable over time, children in
govemorates participating in vears I and 2 show an increase (value added) in critical thinking
skills significantly higher than those increases in non-participating govemorates.
Program Area 3: Enhancing system efficiency
Indicator #5: Policv decisions relating to access and equity, improvement of quality, and
system efficiency, at the national and educational mudirriya levels in participating
govemorates, are based on data, analysis, and objective criteria.
Measured by: Recommended policy decisions, at the educational mudirriya and national levels,
are based on demonstrable data, analysis, and objective criteria.
Indicator #6: Decisions relating to access and equity, improvement of quality, and svstem
efficiency, have been effectively implemented in a coordinated manner (both horizontally and
vertically) at both the national and educational mudirriya levels.
Measured by: Evidence of implemented policy decisions is found at all levels in participating
govemorates, without duplication of implementation activities across organizations.



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
PRE-SERVICE TRAINING LPROVEMENT FUND
PURPOSE OF ILROVEMENT FUND
The purpose of the Fund, available to pre-service teacher training institutions on a
competitive basis, is to provide these institutions with an incentive to assess and improve the
quality of their programs (facilities, faculty, curriculum, graduation standards). To be eligible to
compete for the Fund, the institution must participate in an objective outside needs assessment,
the criteria for the assessment having been established on the basis of international standards for
pre-service training. Proposals to the Fund reflect the institutions' plans for improvement based
on these assessments. A small fund will be available to applicants to help them prepare their
proposals.
STRUCTURE OF THE CURRENT PRE-SERVICE TRAINING SYSTEM
Of the 43 pre-service institutions, 24 (56 percent) are faculties of education associated
with universities. Forty-four percent are specific education colleges. The specific education
colleges are four year post-secondary programs, but focus on specialties such as music, fine, arts,
athletics, or technology, and in twvo cases, on kindergarten and early childhood development.
The faculties of education give two types of degrees: basic, which usually restricts the
graduate to teaching at the primary level, and general, which allows the graduate to teach at the
preparatory and secondary level. They have two training systems, but all but one follow what is
called the integrated system. This program consists of four years of training in the faculty of
education, although subject matter faculty can be either members of the faculty of education or
faculty in the disciplinary departments of the university. The Institute of Graduate Education at
Cairo University follows a different model: a B.A. from a disciplinarv department and a fifth
year of training in education, especially pedagogy. Total faculty for the 24 institutions is 2755;
58 percent are Ph.D. facultv and 42 percent pre-Ph.D. faculty, the latter being in training and
holding posts such as assistant lecturer.
The MOE funds all pre-service institutions. Both the faculties of education and special
training colleges are subject to different supreme councils, which are advised by sector
committees (quitaa). The Supreme Council of Universities, which oversees the faculties of
education and reports to the Minister of Education, consists of the presidents of the universities,
5 additional members, and the minister of the MOE. It has four functions: approve the statute for
each facultv (curriculum and internal regulations); make final promotion decisions for faculty;
make degree equivalence decisions for facult applicants, high school graduates, and university
graduates; and set enrollment targets. The sector committee for the faculties of education is
known as the Deans' Council.
The MOE appoints and assigns all new teachers. Unlike universitv graduates in other
fields, who, although legally assured of a civil service job, spend years in an employment queue,
graduates of the pre-service teacher training system usually receive a job appointment
immediately upon graduation.



ANNEx 6
Page 2 of 5
PROBLEMS WITH THE PRE-SERVICE TEACHER TRAINING SYSTEM
There are a number of fairly standard input problems with the pre-service training
system: low or uneven faculty quality, inadequate facilities (buildings, poorly equipped and
maintained laboratories--computer, sciences, biology, language, and micro-teaching), weak
instructional resources (libraries, textbooks, and other teaching materials and aids), and uneven
management. Like many countries, Egypt's pre-service programs seem to vary considerably in
quality. Thus, all share the fairly standard list of problems, but programs differ in the severity of
each problem.
However, these input problems are symptomatic of several basic institutional distortions.
Improving the quality of pre-service education depends on addressing these distortions in
conjunction with improving inputs. One is the lack of quality assurance mechanisms. The
Deans' Council is asked to review requests to start a new faculty of education or a new program
within an existing faculty. If the Deans' Council rejects such a request, the Supreme Council
cannot overrule that judgment. However, several deans report that in fact the Council exercises
little ex ante quality control, partly because each dean "banks" goodwill among other deans
against a time when that dean needs the committee's approval of a change in his or her program.
There is no ex post evaluative mechanism in place to review the quality of existing programs,
such as visiting or accrediting committees or independent licensing requirements for pre-service
graduates. Thus, quality controls on organizational entry into the provision of pre-service
training are weak, and there is no feedback on the quality of existing providers. The inward-
looking nature of Egypt over the last decades has also meant that even those standards that
prevail informally in the pre-service system have not been updated.
The second problem is a lack of incentives for institutions to improve the quality of their
programs.  Incentives require measures of  provider quality that do not now exist and
consequences to low or high quality which also do not exist. Institutions are funded regardless
of quality, and their graduates are hired regardless of quality.
Finally, the pre-service institutions cannot control their enrollment numbers. The
Supreme Council decides enrollment targets for the faculties of the universities each vear, as does
the version of the supreme council for the special colleges. These targets reflect estimates of
demand, but also an attempt to ensure that all high school graduates who passed the exit
examination have a place in some program in a university. Thus, the enrollment targets for pre-
service institutions can vary considerably from vear to year, making institutional planning
difficult. An extreme case of this occurred in 1995, when the high school graduating class
increased bv 60 percent because of the "double class" (adjustment to the earlier elimination of
grade 6). Relative to 1994, enrollment in the pre-service system increased 42 percent in 1995,
the faculty of education enrollments alone increasing from 20,807 in 1994 to 29,889 in 1995.
When enrollment targets are substantially increased, resources are not added to handle them.
Thus, no matter how high the quality of the program, the resources required to maintain this
quality can be overwhelmed by high enrollments.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
THE IMPROVEMENT FUND AS A SOLUTION TO PROBLEMS
If successfully implemented, the Improvement Fund will solve some, although not all, of
the problems of the pre-service system. If the Improvement Fund initiative is coordinated with
other program initiatives targeted on the system (see Annual Work Plan for Program Area 2,
Interventions 2.3.1-2.3.5), the total package will reduce both the input and institutional barriers
to quality training.
The Fund puts in place a feedback mechanism on the qualitv of pre-service institutions
and, for most of those institutions willing to use this mechanism, offers substantial resources for
program improvement. Thus, it addresses the lack of information about the quality of existing
programs, establishes international standards for assessing quality, and provides resources to
implement improvement plans that are based on outside assessments of the quality of the pre-
service institution.
Unless it becomes a permanent feature of government policy and budget, the Fund is
obviously a short-term incentive. However, the five year period can be used to observe the
responses of the pre-service system to the Fund and to a possible longer-term incentive of a
teacher licensing examination. The EEP program will fund the development, piloting, and
implementation of this examination. The results would be used to create a ranking of pre-service
institutions that is published. It is believed that this rank-order will create pressure on pre-service
institutions to improve their performance. Graduates of these institutions cannot get a teaching
job if they cannot pass the licensing examination, and schools associated with lower success rates
will be shunned. The possible problem with this theory is that the pressure on Egyptian students
to enter any post-secondary education program seems sufficiently intense to suggest that the
rank-order may simply become a way for the best students to select those institutions associated
with high pass rates. Lower quality students may be willing to take their chances with a pre-
service institution with lower pass rates if that is their only option.  Again, however, the
response of students and pre-service institutions to the results of the licensing examination can
be observed during this five year period.
ADMINISTERING THE FUND
Four steps precede the release of funds to pre-service institutions for program
improvement: (1) establishing the goals, criteria, and indicators to be used in the needs
assessments of pre-service institutions; (2) creating assessment teams; (3) creating and
administering a small fund to help applicants write multi-year quality improvement plans; and
(4) creating a judges' panel to evaluate applications to the Fund by pre-service institutions.
Establishing Criteria and Indicators for Assessing the Needs of Pre-SerWce Institutions
The PPMU will first wnte a TOR and then create a task force to conduct this activity.
The task force should be relatively small to facilitate the work--for example, six persons. Two
of the task force should be international experts, one in the design of accrediting systems and one
in international best practice in pre-service education. The foreign experts should be able to
contact other foreign experts for short-term consulting as needed. The other members should be
Egyptian. These might include a representative of the Supreme Council of Universities, a dean



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5
of a faculty of education, a dean of a special college, and a dean of a universitv disciplinarv
department.
The TOR for the task force should give it some flexibility in how to conduct its work. It
may wish to observe a high quality accrediting process abroad. It mav need to commission fact-
finding reports on the current status of pre-service programs. However, in setting standards and
measures, it must anticipate the nature and quality of the pre-service programs that will be
needed to achieve Egypt's educational objectives for its students in the twenty-first century.
All deliberations and studies should be organized around producing a needs assessment
handbook that can be used by the assessment team(s). The handbook should specify criteria,
indicators, careful examples to specify the meaning of each criterion and indicator, the types of
behaviors that warrant different ratings, materials that pre-service institutions preparing for a
needs assessment must compile, and forms that the assessment team will use during its work.
Once drafted, the handbook should be circulated to the pre-service institutions for comment, to
be followed by a conference to discuss unresolved issues, areas of disagreement, and proposed
amendments.  The draft, revised after the conference, will be published, sent as a reference
handbook to all pre-service institutions, and used as the basis for training the assessment team(s).
In putting together the handbook and needs assessment process, the task force must take
a position about the confidentiality of the needs assessments of institutions. These assessments
should probably be confidential--perhaps restricted to the faculty of education itself and the
rector of that faculty's university. The point is to encourage participation in the assessment and
in a quality improvement process. It is not to embarrass any individual pre-service institution.
The task force concludes its work by: (1) setting up criteria for selecting the assessment
team(s); (2) defining the required organization of proposals to the Fund and setting the weights
for each topic to be addressed; (3) setting up rules for a small proposal development fund; and (4)
selecting one or two individuals to train the evaluation team.
Assessing Pre-Service Institutions
The PPMU will write a TOR for the assessment team(s) and select a first team. The
team must be trained in applying the handbook standards to ensure uniformity in appling the
criteria. Each needs assessment is expected to take a month of about a five person team: one
week of reading and discussing materials prepared by the pre-service institution to be assessed;
two weeks in the field at the pre-service institution, and one week to write a complete report on
the institution.
Providing Technical Assistance to Proposal Development
Faculties of education may need help in translating an assessment of their needs into an
effective improvement plan.  The PPMU  will contract technical assistance for proposal
development.



ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 5
Evaluating Proposals to the Fund
The PPMU will write a TOR for the team evaluating the proposals to the Fund and select
a team to judge each year's competition. The evaluation is expected to take about three weeks:
a week for all members of the judges' panel to read all applications, a week for discussing the
proposals and deciding on awards, and a week to write up the panel's assessment of the proposal
as feedback for both winning and losing applicants. If site visits to applicant institutions are
considered advisable, the evaluation process will increase three days for every site visit.
There will be no proposals in year 1 and very few in year 2. Maximum awards should be
$1 million, although the task force may wish to structure the competition into a competition for
smaller ($500,000) and larger awards ($1 million). The larger awards will be necessary if a pre-
service institution wishes to send selected faculty abroad for a year's intensive training.
Although the proposal process to the fund should be competitive, unless many more institutions
than expected apply to the Fund or certain proposals are very weak, the stress should be on trying
to fund improvement proposals to create an incentive for institutions to undergo a major needs
assessment process.



PROGRAM COSTS
Expenditure Accounts by Cornponents - Totals Including Contingencies (USS ffiiIon)
Access and Equity                 Quality of Student       System Efriciency
Perfonmance
Second    Reduce    Improve                 Capacity   Strategic
Increase    Chance   Wastage  Teaching &  Pre-Service  Building   Planning &    Motivation &
Enrollment Education in System   Leaming     Training     Fund    Management  Accountabiilty   Total
I. Investnent Costs
A. Works
Civil VWorks                       392.81       4.83    239.19           -                                   -              -   636.84
B. Goods                                                                                                      0
Equipment                               -          -         -        12.17                 0.64          1.91              -    14.72
FumKure                             47.71       0.65     13.72           -            --                     -              -    62.08
Educational Materials                   -          -      0.67        7.95         0.03        -                            -      8.65
Testing Materials                       -          -         -        1.62            -        -             -              -      1.62
Vehicles                                -          -         -           -            -        -          0.31              -      0.31
Software                                -          -         -           -           -      0.02          0.15              -     0.16
School Meals                         1.11          -                                                         -              -      1.11
Subtotal                              48.82       0.65     14.38       21.74         0.03     0.66          2.36              -    88.64
C. Training                                                                                                   0
Overseas Training                       -          -      0.03        0.25            -     2.25          0.49          10.64    13.67
In-country Training                     -                 2.47        3.43            -    43.49          0.15           0.54    50.08
Subtotal                                  -          -      2.50        3.68           -    45.75           0.64          11.18    63.74
D. Specialists Services                                                                                       0
Intemational Consultants             0.13       0.02      0.07        0.82         0.29     0.07          2.91           0.62      4.93
Local ConsuHtants                    0.06       0.04      0.01        0.82         0.75     0.32          3.82           0.14      5.96
ConferencelSeminar                      -          -      0.01        0.02         0.05        -          0.27           0.05      0.41
Honoraria                               -                 0.01        0.04         0.70        -          4.74              -      5.49
Campaigns                            1.10          -         -           -            -        -          1.31              -      2.41
Improvement Grants                      -          -         -        0.05        27.05        -             -              -    27.10
Subtotal                               1.29       0.06      0.10        1.76        28.85     0.38         13.06           0.81     46.30
Total Investment Costs                 442.92       5.54    256.18       27.17        28.87    46.79         16.06          11 99   835.52
II. Recurrent Costs                                                                                             0
442.92      5.54    256.18        27.17       28.87    46.79         16.06           11.99   835.52
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                     138.59       1.74     81.05       13.63        10.62     6.67          7.11          10.71   270.12
0 



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
Project Costs by National Government and Govemorate (US$ Million)
National
Government  %  Governorate  %    Total   %
A. Access and Equity
Increase Enrollment                        13.92    3      429.00   97   442.92   53
Second Chance Education                     0.06    1        5.48   99     5.54    1
Subtotal                                     13.98    3      434.48   97   448.46   54
B. Quality of Student Performance
Reduce  astage in System                    0.10    0      256.08  100   256.18   31
Pre-Service Training                       28.30   98        0.57    2    28.87    3
Improve Teaching & Leaming                  3.96   15       23.22   85    27.17    3
Capacity Building Fund                      3.04    6       43.75   94    46.79    6
Subtotal                                     35.39   10      323.62   90   359.01   43
C. System Efficiency
Strategic Planning & Management            12.99   81        3.07   19   16.06    2
Staff Motivation & Accountability           8.42   70        3.57   30    11.99    1
70.78    8     764.74   92   835.52  100
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies (US$ Million)
1907    1998    1999      2000      2001      Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Works
Civil Works                      30.64   6580    115.47   168.79      256.14  636.84
B. Goods
Equipment                         0.58    0.91     4.02     3.74        5.47   14.72
Fumiture                          1.75    9.93    12.92    16.19       21.29   62.08
Educational Materials             0.03    0.03     3.70      1.93       2.96    8.65
Testing Materials                 0.08    0.34     0.39     0.40        0.41    1.62
Vehicles                          0.07    0.04     0.05     0.06        0.10   0.31
Software                          0.02    0.03     0.04     0.04        0.04    0.16
School Meals                         -    0.27     0.27     0.28        029    1.11
Subtotal                            2.52   11.53    21.40    22.64       30.55  88.64
C. Training
Overseas Training                 0.65    3.21     3.19     3.27        3.35   13.67
In-country Training               0.03    0.34    13.59    14.35       21 77   50.08
Subtotal                            0.68    3.55    16.78    17.62       25.12  63.74
D. Specialists Services
Intemational Consultants          2.99    0.73     0.44     0.61        0 17   4.93
Local Consultants                 1.11    1.00     1.20     1.41        1.25    5.96
Conference/Seminar                0.11    008      0.07     0.10        0.04   0.41
Honoraria                         0.87    098      1.13      1.21       1.30    5.49
Campaigns                         0.03    0.56     0.58     0.60        0.64    2.41
Improvement Grants                  -    6.52      6.68     6.89        7.02   27.10
Subtotal                            5.11    9.86    10.09    10.82       10.42  46.30
Total Invesdment Costs               38.96   90.74   163.74   219.86      322.22  835.52
II. Recurrent Costs                  38.96   9074    163.74   21986       322.22  835.52



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
Project Components by Year Totals Including Contingencies (USS Million)
1997    1998    1999      2000      2001     Total
A. Access and Equity
Increase Enrollment                19.90   50.31    82.44   117.01      173.26  442.92
Second Chance Education             0.33    0.55     0.99      1.45       2.22    5.54
Subtotal                             20.23   50.86    83.43   118.46      175.48  448.46
B. Quality of Student Performance
Reduce VWstage in System           12.44   25.69    46.14    68.02      103.89  256.18
Improve Teaching & Leaming          1.03    1.06     8.85     6.56        9.68   27.17
Pre-Service Training               0.46    6.75      7.03     7.25        7.39   28.87
Capacity Building Fund              0.87    0.58    12.67    13.04       19.62   46.79
Subtotal                             14.81   34.07    74.69    94.86      140.58  359.01
C. System Efficiency
Strategic Planning & Management     3.54    2.98     2.72     3.59        3.23   16.06
Staff Motivation & Accountability   0.38    2.83     2.89     2.96        2.92   11.99
Subtotal                              3.92    5.81     5.62     6.55        6.15   28.04
38.96   90.74   163.74   219.86      322.22  835.52



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 6
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATIONAL LINKS
A.     ORGANIZATION OF CENTRAL AND GOVERNORATE PPMUS
This chapter describes the function and responsibilitv of the central PPMU and the
govemorate Unit (GPPMU). The organizational arrangement for coordination with
implementing agencies is also described.
The EEP is unique in the planned scale of operation and comprehensiveness of its
educational conception. The implementation of the project will entail:
* Streamlining of procedures and decision-making processes;
* Identification and assignment of specific tasks to specific agencies,
individuals, groups or institutions with clear prescription of a time-frame;
and
* Sustainability and cost effectiveness.
2.     The effective management of the multiplicity of interventions envisaged at central
and govemorate levels requires an organizational structure that combines the
following elements:
- Central level responsibility for policv guidelines and coordinated
implementation of the program;
- Govemorate level responsibility to ensure coherence and consistencv
with govemorate basic education priorities;
  Govemorate of operational responsibility to ensure responsiveness to
expressed local needs and conditions; and
-  Flexibility to adapt to unforeseen events and incorporate lessons from
experience/innovation.
3.     The overall responsibilitv for implementation of the program is vested at the
central Programming, Planning and Monitoring Unit (PPMU) which is responsible
directly to the Minister of Education. The capacity of the PPMU to implement the
program will be strengthened by assigning sections adequate financial and
administrative powers corresponding with its tasks comprising facilitation,
capacitv building, appraisal, coordination, disbursement, procurement and overall
direction of the program. Until adequate capacih building in govemorates is
achieved, the central PPMU will assist the govemorates in planning and
implementation with the approval of local authoritv. Govemorates will prepare 5-
year educational enhancement program  based on the strategic framework and
specific local conditions, identif-ing educational needs and prioritizing
interventions. Annual work plans and budgets would be prepared on the basis of
the approved 5-year program. Specific tasks would be assigned bv the central
PPMU to implementing agencies, particularly for components which require
uniformity across the country. Where these tasks require a multi-year contribution,
the implementing agencies will prepare inputs to annual work plans and budgets.
Tasks would be assigned by the PPMU for responding to requests for professional



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 6
services arising from program planning and implementation. In organizing its
tasks of technical assistance in planning and monitoring, appraisal of projects,
supervision, program evaluation and research, consultancv and support services
would be employed for which the PPMU would be the clearing house along with
the cooperation of other agencies such as: the national planning institute, local
Faculties of Education and local Faculties of Art.
4.      Management at the National Level
The PPMU includes several specific operational units with functions as described
below: see exhibit 2.1
Policy Formulation & Planning Section
* analyze policy altematives and prepare relevant strategies;
* translate policy and reform measures into implementable program
activities;
* provide guidelines and assistance for govemorate counterpart units for
plan preparation;
* approve plans prepared by govemorate and implementing agencies; and
 ensure that donor and NGO assistance is consistent with Govemment
policies and fit into the overall framework and objectives of the EEP
Program Management & Coordination Section:
* liaise with the donor agencies (primarily the EU and the WB);
- assign authority of and responsibility for implementation to appropriate
agencies;
= assist the relevant implementing agencies and govemorates in the
development of detailed annual workplans   specifying activities,
responsible agency, time frame, resources (fiscal and other) required to
implement the activities;
* coordinate all program activities in cooperation with the relevant
implementing agencies; particularly regarding convergence of local
govemorate activities and implementation of centrallv planned prograrn
components;
* assess implementation and managerial capacitv of implementing agencies
and provide necessary assistance (technical assistance, training, staffing,
equipping);
* develop training plans for relevant program personnel aiming to educate
and train them in sound planning, budgeting, accounting and monitoring
procedures, and also provide opportunities for exchange of ideas; and
* establish budget requirement of the various activities and monitor
disbursement performance.
Monitoring and Evaluation Section:
* develop process and performance indicators for EEP objectives and
activities;
* monitor implementation progress and performance of the various
implementing agencies;
* develop and maintain a database of program status for the generation of



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 6
annual progress reRorts for the government, the EU and the WB;
* conduct  continuous   evaluation   on  the  impact  of  the
initiatives/interventions and provide feedback for modification or
improvement as necessarv; and
* prepare summarv reports for MOE high-level officials highlighting
problems, issues, and recommended actions.
Financial Management Section:
*  maintain proper documentation of all program expenditures (separate
accounts for WB and EU); ensure that audit requirements of the donor
agencies are met;
*  maintain and operate the Special Account (WB);
*  disburse funds to implementing agencies and govemorate counterpart
units as per approved workplans; and
*  establish financial control and advise govemorate units on account
maintenance.
Procurement Advisor:
- oversee and advise implementation agencies on procurement planning,
procedures and documentation to be followed, aiming to standardize
procurement practices and contracting for work, goods and services, and
ensure that Govemment, WB, and EU procedures are followed;
* approve all tenders and contractual documents for central and govemorate
procurement;
- resolve procurement problems in consultation with the WB (Resident
Mission) and the EU when they arise;
- assess implementing agencies' procurement capacity and make
recommendations to strengthen key staff; and
- maintain an infonmation svstem of WB and EU guidelines and
procedures.
Administrative and Logistical Support Section:
* develop and maintain a filing system for relevant documents and
correspondence;
* develop documentation svstem for relevant literature;
* arrange for seminars and workshops;
* develop a database of national and intemational resource persons,
specialists, finns, NGOs, donors and other organizations (address, contact
numbers, and profiles on expertise and performance);
* ensure that office equipment and computers are properly maintained and
serviced;
* provide administrative support to donor missions and visiting specialists
(meeting arrangements, transport, secretarial services, processing or
reports, etc.); and
* translate relevant documents into both Arabic and English.



ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 6
5.     Supporting Committees and Advisory Bodies:
Brain Trust:
* ensure support for EEP from the general public;
* draw on experiences from organizations outside the government system;
* promote convergence with other social services. the advisory bodies
will discuss educational needs; and
* provide advice for planning and implementation of the EEP.
Policy Steering Committee:
* ensure feasibility of recommendations conceming wider policy issues
or the administration system;
* facilitate review and approval of EEP interventions from concemed
ministries as needed; and
* provide guidance for studies which require approval of ministries
other than education.
Policy Steering Committee:
* ensure support from implementing organization; and
 facilitate coordination among implementing agencies, govemorates
and Central PPMU.
6.      Management at the governorate level:
EEP would be implemented through a govemorate level PPMU.
The govemorate level PPMU structure is presented in exhibit 2.2
B.    ORGANIZATIoNAL LIKS AMONG AGENCIES
lnplementation of the EEP will involve govemorates, implementing agencies,
department of the MOE and the PPMU. The participation of this range of agencies requires
effective coordination mechanisms and clearly defined organizational link (see diagram and
description of functions below). A Coordination Committee will plav the key role in ensuring
cooperation between all relevant actors. The PPMU will facilitate coordination.
Specific tasks of the national component will be assigned to implementing agencies. The
agencies will provide implementation schedules and budgets for their tasks for approval by the
PPMU. Govemorates will prepare 5-year-plans for the implementation of EEP. These plans will
contain: (a) components unique to the governorates; and b) implementation plans for centrally
conceptualized program interventions with assistance from the implementing agencies.
Funds will be released by he PPMU to the implementing agencies and the govemorates
on the basis of approved plans, proper reports and fimd utilization performance on a six-monthly
basis.



ANNEx 8
Page 5 of 6
COORDINATION COMMITTEE (CC)
Headed bv: Senior Policy Advisor
Members: PPMU govemorates, implementing agencies and relevant departments of the MOE
Role:
* To provide a forum of discussion of strategies and interventions developed under
the EEP.
* To facilitate/promote coordination of various actors regarding program
activities/interventions.
* To ensure cooperation of MOE, implementing agencies and govemorates in specific
tasks.
* To review progress of implementation bi-annually.
* To review relevant parts of govemorate plans and implementation schedules of
implementing agencies.
PLANNING PROGRAMING AND MONITORING UNIT (PPMU):
*   To assist govemorates and implementing agencies in plan preparation.
* To facilitate cooperation between implementing agencies and govemorates
(organizing meetings, visits and seminars).
* To approve workplans and budget and reports from implementing agencies and
govemorates and release finds accordingly.
* To monitor and evaluate perfomiance and provide feedback.
* To exercise financial control and ensure accountability for expenditure.
* To act as a clearing house for capacity building proposals from MOE department,
govemorates and implementing agencies.
IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
* To prepare an implementation schedule and budget for specific tasks assigned to the
agencv by the PPMU.
* To assist govemorates in planning the implementation of interventions
conceptualized bv the agency.
* To assist governorates in monitoring and evaluation of the specific activities.
* To report to the PPMU and CC on progress.
GOVERNORATES
* To prepare, in consultation with idarra and communities, 5-year plans, annual
workplans and budgets, with assistance from the PPMU.
* To submit plans to the CC for review of relevant parts and to the PPMU for
approval.
* To submit reports and request replenishment of funds.
* To monitor and evaluate program activities with the assistance of implementing
agencies.
* To exercise financial control and ensure accountabilityv for expenditures.



ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 6
To assist in planning,                                    To assign tasks, assist in planning,
monitoring, and evaluation                                monitoring, and evaluation
to assist in planning,
To plan                                 progwminnng,
Implementation                             monitoring &
evaluation
SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION
School construction wil be cared out by GAEB. Regarding regular and one classroom
schools, GAEB will use the school mapping system to select eligible schools site areas.
Govemorates wil consult with comm unities for final site selection.
Funds will be released by the PPMU to GAEB on the basis of the number of completed
schools according to agreed criteria. GAEB wifm initiate the construction activities in the
govemorates.
For areas with student population of less than 100, communities will express preferences
for school types. Provision of schools might be done jointly by govemorates and communities.



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF KEY ACTVMTES
lmplsnwe -dnton Schadule  ll'Key Activites
Calnder Years                                             CY 96             CY97            CY 98            CY99            CY2000          CY 2001
Quarter   1   2   3   4   1   2    3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2    3    1
IDA& Egypt Fiscal Years                                      i     FY L 6          FY97       i _              I1    FY 99     i_FY2000    I   FY2001
FrdedYe n  =   _Y-REP >                 P-1    =         _ 2  =           = 3  =           = 4   =         -     _
Overall Arrwngwmet                                                          Effectiveness                             _losing
Hold Annual Re'.ew wth IDA                                                  l                 I                                                   -
Subrt Annual Wor Fban d the folowing fiscal year
Prepare status repaots                                                                                                                                   L
Progwu  Area I Access & Eqtity
O041cA    1.1 : Increase Enrolent
Introduce new site alacton criteria
Condud comnmunity preference survey
GAEE Submits school sites to PPMU
Constructln period                                                        **  ** *                              **1 l**  ** ****
Ob/ecte 1.2 Inrpmenut Awarenss Crripeign
Design awareness campaign
Conukctawarenesscmpangn                                                                *   *        *   *        **E  "                   **    **
DiVeche 1.3 : Recruit Local Femas  Teschars
ldenttif local areas to hie fernale teachers
Recruit local female teachers                                                          I   i        * 71         I           iEi    liii
Obwehe 1.4 : Uprade Existing Schools
Conduct needs assessment study
Up-gade xisthg schods                                                                   I           i I  ii  INHi 111111
ObjectAe 1.5 P*oWde Educationrfc Ch.ten with Special Needs
Conduct study to Identify target populalton
Establsih schools ter chikren with spedel needs                                        iiI                      I      ii            lfl1l             l3l
Otbedhe 1.6 Pr*oWke Specwa IAssistnee to UndUrpr geen
Conduct study for underprivieged childcren
Pro,tde assitance uc as schod meal                                              __    iiII             U    !!!! E               h i E iii                    _
Progrnam Are 2: Qualty of Student Perfornncme
Objac4te 21: Redce Wastage in the System
GAEB Submits school sites to PPMU
Constructionperiod                                                         I iflifli                 mmiii   E                       H          i 3EE
Conduct study of cost-efecdiveness
Conduct study of student counciors
Hire student counciors
Provde traninng to tudent counciors                                                            *       *         *        *           *       * iI
Hre comnurdtylialson workers                                                                     m                        i           11111
Provide training to comnmnity laison worken
Conduct study of leaming support teachers
Hire leamhng supporlteechem t                                                                                HUc hws                          iii
Ohe  2.2: tnyro  the Quality of Teaching & Leemnng_
Develop guidelines for technology use
etsgn structure and organization of NCET
Establish NCET
ProAde equipnmnt to local leaoming centerm
Develop dstance leaming packages
Distribute dslance toeming pactkges
Reavew pedagogic prcices
Make recommendatlon of snw pedagogic practices
Provide ductona materials
Peare br sine assessment tests
Conduct & anaze bsesine assessment tsts
ReviAw teacher evaluation system
Develop nsw teacher evaluation system
Proide training to evaluators                       l         _



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
ProFde trainng to teachers
Rew Schotl inspsction ytem
Provide equipmert to central & loca inspection centers                                                       
Re-wtbechers pomotIonytem
Convene natIonal onfence on techer promotion
0o4Aw  2.3 InWowe OuIfty o/Pr'-swvlc  Trahing,
EstlSbIh goals and corteda for pre-service inhttions
Corve naal conference on pre-serce instIwttons
imnpnov int Fund                                        It****I*I**Ihi
Make reconvendaIon on changes hi Intake procese
welp a wytem of rankig pe-serice instItions
Prepare propose for one-year paid internship
Convye nrktnal tconeence an intemship
Irtrodkuceone-yearpsl   intemshlp                                                                                                -   --l -g ----  ---- ----  IIIB-1-1
Re,iew teache icening mechanism
Ob yecfA  2.4 . Build Cepwlfy of /rp4irnthig Ap inc#
Deeop  pakitytiuitding pin of NCEEE
Provide training & study visits to NCEEE staff
Provide equipment to NCEEE
Condudc needs assessment of i       ngm g encies
Provike training & study vsits to implementing agencies
ProAde  equipment to hiplmenting agncies
Provide training and equipment to Master Teachers
Prowun Area 3: Upstem r flclcy__
O]bethw  3.1 : lpow Efiiency of Resource Use
Adot desWn chngs In school construcikon
Design & Introduce constuction quality control systenm
Conduct saPefftdcency study
Conven conference on sef-f ency study
Objate 3.2 : Inpove Educatlne Plannig
Revew existing data coection system                                1   E
Revie finandal datl system
Condud senar on statIstIcs system
Strnhen the naional statistics system
Pride takoting to staf f                          
Provide equipment to                                                                          a       I I           I     L            o
Strengthen CAPMAS capability                                                              m               m I  
ObjectA  3.3 :MobWton 6 Accountabily
Condudt techer moiaitbo study                                      I               _
Convene folow-up conference on teacher miotion stud 
Condutd needs assessment study on inservice training                i
Conduct studes on community partiipatlon  
Proide wortshop on In-service trining                                              1                  L            i
Provide in-service training                                                                           1                       W       m       m
Obyectibe 3.4: EffactIve Managemant (PPMtiUI
Develop operational manuals
Provide training & studysiSits to central PPMU staff                t
Provide training for the use of operational manuals                                              - -      - -----------
Estabish govemorate-level PPMU
Prode equipment to govemorat-level PPMU
Provide training to govermorte-leve PPMU staff
ObjectAe 3.5: StrSngatt  /nyimntltaOn Capacity
Establish coorcdnaing cornmittee
Hold coortinaang committee meetng
Establsh poicy steering corrmerttee
Hold poitcy st eerng committee meeting
Irdentify crteiai & estalish gideline for evuation studes
Dvlp evaluation mechenism of Implementing agencies



ANNEX 10
Page I of 10
ANNUAL WORK PLAN 1997
FIRST YEAR ACTIVITIES
Objective 1.1:
Increase enrollment each year by 2% for girls and 1.2% for boys.
1.1.1 Construct schools based   1.1.1.1 Review current site selection criteria and confirm their
on enrollment rates,           suitability regarding the desired enrollment rates with
school mapping and             prioritv to underserved areas through visits.
other criteria.
1.1.1.2 Survey low enrollment areas on community preference
for type of schools desired; obstacles to girls'
enrollment; parents reasons for keeping children out of
school.
1.1.1.3 Design and construct classrooms in selected sites.
1.1.2 Implement awareness     1.1.2.1 Based on community preference study in 1.1.1.2,
campaign to encourage           identify awareness campaign mechanisms effective in
children with special           selected educational mudirriva, with priority for
emphasis on girls               underserved children.
enrollment in low
enrollment areas.
1.1.3 Recruit local female    1.1.3.1 Use results of community preference survev to identify
teachers based on              areas where locally recruited female teachers would
community preference.          have a significant impact on enrollment.
1.1.4 Upgrade existing schools  1.1.4.1 Prepare a needs assessment for upgrading existing
with necessary facilities.     school facilities, including setting minimum facilities
standards by school type.
1.1.4.2 Allocate resources needed for implementing minimum
facilities standards bv school tvpe.
1.1.5 Provide education for   1.1.5.1 Conduct a study to identify target populations at
children with special           national level.
needs.
1.1.6 Provide special        1.1.6.1 Review existing mechanisms used for providing
assistance to attract and       special assistance to underprivileged children in Egypt
retain underprivileged
children.                1.1.6.2 Review data in MOE Nutrition Department, other
National agencies and NGOs to determine needs for
improving quality of food and deliverv systems.



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 10
Obiective 1.2:
Provide second chance education for children up to 14years old, with an emphasis on girls.
1.2.1 Establish second chance   1.2.1.1 Design and start implementation of survey to identify
schools or classes based      local needs, including number of out-of-school
on local need and             children, and to identify community facilities suitable
community preference,         for housing second chance education, including one
including one classroom       classroom schools for hamlets with fewer than 60
schools.                      school age girls in participating govemorates.
1.2.2 Identify means to      1.2.2.1 Use the community preference study in 1.1.1.2 to
increase demand in areas      determine reasons for parents keeping children out of
with large numbers of         school and for children to choose to stay out of school
out of school children.       and propose interventions for overcoming obstacles.
1.2.3 Develop, provide and   1.2.3.1 Review second chance education materials in Egypt
supply materials              and other countries with well developed second chance
relevant to second            education systems to identify needs for development of
chance education.             additional materials (year 1 and year 2).
SECOND YEAR ACTIVITIES
Objective 2.1:
Reduce wastage in the system [repetitions and dropouts].
2.1.1 Eliminate multiple shifts to increase  2.1.1.1 Construct additional classrooms to
instructional time and range of student     eliminate multiple shifts (see activity
activities.                                 1.1.1.1).
2.1.2 Reduce class size to an average of 40  2.1.2.1 Construct additional classrooms where
students.                                  the student density exceeds this ratio,
with priority being given to areas with
the highest existing student density
(see activity 1.1.1.1).
2.1.3 Improve the analytic basis for selecting    2.1.3.1 Initiate a study of the cost-effectiveness
policies to reduce wastage.                 of altemative policies for reducing
wastage: define alternatives, collect and
analvze data to fill any gaps in the
information needed to conduct a cost-
effectiveness study, and, on the basis of
the study, make recommendations for
activities in the second program year.



ANNEx 10
Page 3 of 10
2.1.4 Provide student counselors and       2.1.4.1 No activity in year 1.
community liaison workers.
2.1.5 Develop a cadre of learning support  2.1.5.1 No activity in year 1.
teachers for students with moderate
learning difficulties.
Obiective 2.2:
Improve the quality of teaching and learning in order to ensure that students attain basic
skills to defined levels by grade 9.
2.2.1 Improve the use of technology in the  2.2.1.1 Develop guidelines for technology-
classroom [ranging from the blackboard      enhanced leaming in the following
to the computer].                           areas:
*   tools and materials that teachers can
find or make
-   tools or aids that can best be distributed
centrally to teachers, such as maps,
models, science kits
-   established media, such as print, radio,
TV, audio, and video
-   emerging media, such as computers.
These guidelines should be based on
considerations of cost, organizational
constraints at the school-level,
maintenance requirements, and learning
benefits. [The guidelines will be used
as criteria for a competitive fund
established in subsequent vears.]
2.2.2 Introduce a system of continuous     2.2.2.1 Design the structure and organization
distance in-service leaming for teachers    of the NCET and develop a five year
and school-level managers through the       strategic plan and action plan for vear 2
National Center for Educational Training    of the program for the NCET, its
(NCET).                                     regional and local centers, and its
relations with partners such as
universities and pre-service centers.
2.2.2.2 Begin the process of capacitv building,
for the NCET and entities involved in
media development and production.
2.2.3 Introduce distance learning packages for   2.2.3.1 No activitv in year 1.
classroom use for basic skills.



ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 10
2.2.4 Introduce, through the in-service system,  2.2.4.1 Review current pedagogic practice in
pedagogic strategies which raise               all type of schools in Egypt in this area
students' higher order thinking skills to     and conduct a literature search on
defined levels by grade 9.                    practice in other countries with
planning for year 2 studv tour.
2.2.5 Measure students' achievement in basic    2.2.5.1 Begin preparing a baseline assessment
skills and in higher order thinking skills    of student learning for grade 4 and
for purposes of system accountability.        grade 8 in the pilot govemorates.
2.2.6 Improve the transparency and validity of   2.2.6.1 No activity in year 1.
teacher evaluations.
2.2.7 Create ways for teachers to continuously   2.2.7.1 No activity in year 1.
assess student learning as a basis for
improving their teaching. These ways
should be part of the classroom routine.
2.2.8 Create a school inspection system with    2.2.8.1 Conduct meetings between senior
objective criteria uniformly applied.          members of the inspectorates in the
pilot govemorates and the NCEEE
school inspection unit to create school
inspection teams from the national
through the district levels.
2.2.9 Develop a merit basis for teachers'    2.2.9.1 No activitv in vear 1.
promotion.
Objecuive 2.3:
Improve quality ofpre-service training programL
2.3.1 Establish an Improvement Fund,         2.3.1.1 Establish goals, criteria, and indicators
disbursed on a competitive basis to pre-       for evaluating pre-service training
service training institutions for              institutions, based on international
improving the quality of facilities, staff,    standards and experience, and with
and program, proposals being based on          wide consultation with the affected
outside evaluations of the institution that    institutions.
reflect qualitv performance criteria.
2.3.2 Raise qualitv of students entering pre-  2.3.2.1 Based on an analvsis of the nature and
service training institutions.                 extent of quality problems with intake,
make recommendations to the Supreme
Council for Universities on changes in
the intake process.



ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 10
2.3.3 Develop a system for ranking pre-service  2.3.3.1 No activitv in vear 1.
training institutions in terms of program
quality.
2.3.4 Establish a one-year paid and supervised   2.3.4.1 Prepare proposals for operating an
intemship in the schools for teachers     intemship year that addresses problems
prior to permanent employment.             of management and quality
supervision.
2.3.5 Create a system for the MOE to use in    2.3.5.1 No activity in year 1.
licensing new teachers.
Objective 2.4:
Build capacityfor implementing quality component of EEP.
2.4.1 Strengthen capacity of national    2.4.1.1 Initiate capacity building at NCEEE in
implementing agencies related to           testing, assessment, and school
educational quality, such as NCEEE.         inspection.
2.4.1.2 Identify other implementing agencies
relevant to quality and, as appropriate,
conduct needs assessment and initiate
capacity building.
2.4.2 Build capacity at the govemorate level   2.4.2.1 Examine capacitv building needs in
for in-service teacher leaming, school    collaboration with participating
inspection, and school management.        govemorates and take appropriate
action.
2.4.2.2 In a collaboration between the NCET
task force [see 2.2.3.11 and inspectors
general of the participating
govemorates, plan for development of a
cadre of master teachers to guide group
leaming in the local in-service training
centers to be established.
THIRD YEAR ACTIVITIES
Objective 3.1:
Improve efficiency of human, physical andfinancial resource use.
3.1.1 Introduce cost saving  3.1.1.1 Adopt design changes to improve space utilization
changes in school designs     through modifications to the balance of teaching and
including modifications to    non-teaching rooms and through reductions of
teaching:non-teaching         corridor width bv one-half meter.
space utilization and



ANNEX 10
Page 6 of IO
architectural designs.  3.1.1.2 Design and introduce a svstem to ensure construction
quality control.
3.1.2 Improve efficiency of use  3.1.2.1 Assessment of existing conditions is planned for
of teaching and non-          year 2.
teaching staff.
Obiective 3.2:
Improve accuracy and relevance of datafor educationalplanning and management.
3.2.1 Establish a national system  3.2.1.1 Review existing data collection and analysis systems
of educational statistics     in central and governorate level educational agencies;
collection and analysis       identify gaps and further needs; and suggest
which includes the Al-        mechanisms to integrate and coordinate existing
Azhar system and              systems to achieve identified needs
Egyptian students abroad.     (year 1 to 4).
3.2.1.2 In consultation and cooperation with relevant
authorities, develop a comprehensive financial data
system for basic education, including data necessary
for managerial accounting of human and financial
resources, as a tool for maximizing system efficiency.
3.2.2 Develop and link existing   3.2.2.1 Activities in 3.2.1.1 above will also serve as the
data bases in GAEB and        annual work plan for this intervention, with further
the MOE to the new            action contingent on establishment of the national
svstem.                       system (year 1 to 2).
Obiective 3.3:
Introduce mechanisms to enhance motivation and accountability of teachers and
administrators at all levels.
3.3.1 Make policy            3.3.1.1 Conduct Teacher Motivation Studies, including
recommendations on             monetary compensation and non-monetan factors
restructuring the              which effect the conditions and incentives of teacher
compensation system for        employment; make alternative recommendations for
teachers and administrators.   modifications to employment condition and
compensation systems (year 14).
3.3.2 Introduce a performance-   3.3.2.1 Activity in 3.3.1.1 will also serve as the annual work
based rewards/sanctions       plan for this intervention
system for teachers and       National system activity is planned for year 2 or 3.
administrators separate       Develop govemorate level reward mechanisms as part
fiom salary system.           of govemorate plan.



ANNEX 10
Page 7 of IO
3.3.3 Increase community and   3.3.3.1 Coordinate with organizations implementing
parental involvement in       community based education programs and make
school management.            relevant information available to the govemorates.
3.3.4 Provide in-service training  3.3.4.1 Conduct a needs assessment for school managers,
to educational managers,      idarra and mudirriya level educational managers; and
by suitable means             review logistics of present in-service training system
including study abroad.       for educational managers and compare with systems
in other countries and make recommendations for
improvement.
Objective 3.4:
Ensure effective central and local management of the Education Enhancement Program.
3.4.1 Establish an adequately    3.4.1.1 Ensure issuance of Ministerial decree establishing the
staffed and funded PPMU       Program Planning and Management Unit (PPMU).
vith full authority for
program implementation.  3.4.1.2 Establish functions, responsibilities, and procedures
of the PPMU.
3.4.1.3 Identify staffing needs, recruit and train staff.
3.4.1.4 Develop operational manual including intemal.
procedures and mechanisms for coordination with
other agencies and units.
3.4.2 Establish program units at  3.4.2.1 Design structure of PPMU counterpart units at the
the Govemorate level.         educational mudirriya level, including identification
of functions, responsibilities, procedures, staffing and
equipment requirements and obtain needed
administrative approvals to establish local PPMU
counterparts.
3.4.2.2 Establish adequately staffed PPMU counterpart units
at the educational mudirriya level.
3.4.2.3 Formulate a training plan for PPMU counterpart staff
and start training and orientation of PPMU.
counterpart units at the educational mudirriya level.
Obiective 3.5:
Strengthen program implementing units at central and educational mudirriya levels tofulfill
responsibilities in annual workplans.
3.5.1 Ensure integration of  3.5.1.1 Establish a Coordinating Committee (CC) with
PPMU planning exercises       regular membership composed of senior officials



ANNEX 10
Page 8 of lO
with MOE and other            from the PPMU and other relevant educational
implementing agencies.        agencies and ad-hoc membership as needed from non-
educational agencies.
3.5.1.2 Establish Policy Steering Committee (PSC) with
membership of senior policy makers from relevant
agencies to review and monitor work undertaken and
to review any forward policy recommendations to the
minister of education.
3.5.1.3 Identify appropriate compensation for advisory bodies
and committee members and identify and implement
mechanism for providing compensation.
3.5.2 Establish a mechanism for 3.5.2.1 Identify criteria and establish guidelines for
continuous assessment of      evaluation studies of central and educational
capacity building needs in    mudirriya level implementing agencies and ensure
implementing agencies.        that such activities are included in their plans.
3.5.2.2 Develop mechanism for regular evaluation of central
and educational mudirriya level implementing
agencies in cooperation with donor agencies.
3.5.3 Establish a capacity   3.5.3.1 Establish criteria for capacitv building proposals in
building fund for training,   implementing agencies at the central and educational
studies, national and         mudirriya levels, and criteria for appraisal and
foreign technical             approval of proposals.
assistance, study visits
and other capacity      3.5.3.2 Establish a separate fund for capacity building
building measures.            proposals.
Objective 3.6:
Integrate Governorate agencies in planning and implementation to ensure consistency of
program components with local conditions and to ensure local support
3.6.1 Phase implementation of   3.6.1.1 Identify criteria and mechanism for sequencing the
program activities in         participation of all educational mudirriya to phase
selected Govemorates.         implementation of program local interventions.
3.6.1.2 Convene a Conference to be attended by educational
mudirriya and idarra personnel at which the
following program would be presented and discussed:
purpose and content of objectives and interventions;
role of central and educational mudirriya level
implementing agencies in activitv design and
implementation.



ANNEX 10
Page 9 of 10
3.6.1.3 Select additional educational mudirriya for second
year program implementation, using criteria and
mechanism established in 3.6.1.1 and results of
Conference in 3.6.1.2.
3.6.2 Prepare Govemorate plans  3.6.2.1 Issue guidelines for single year and five year
for a subset of program       horizons for content and sequencing of educational
components.                   mudirriya level activity plans.
3.6.2.2 Provide assistance to educational mudirriya level
PPMU counterpart units to conduct planning and
revision of activities identified at the local level.
3.6.2.3 Appraise and approve educational mudirriya level
activity plans in accordance with guidelines for
sequencing developed in activity 3.6.1.1.
3.6.3 Link implementation of    3.6.3.1 Establish a mechanism for regular series of
central interventions to      coordination meetings including central PPMU,
Govemorate plans.             educational mudirriya level PPMU counterpart units,
and implementing agencies.
3.6.3.2 Central PPMU to assist educational mudirriya level
PPMU counterpart units and implementing agencies
to fonnulate plans for and agree on local
implementation of national plan.
3.6.4 Establish Govemorate and  3.6.4.1 Establish advisory bodies and coordinate with
central advisory bodies         existing local and mudirriya level educational bodies.
with local education
specialists, NGOs, business
people, and prominent
individuals.
3.6.5 Establish national and  3.6.5.1 Ensure that the govemorate plans include awareness
Govemorate awareness            activities directed at the Idarra and community level,
campaigns to engender           in order to gain support for implementation at the
support for program             EEP.
components.
Objective 3.7:
Establish feedback mechanismsfor ongoing assessment and modifications of program
activities.
3.7.1 Develop baseline and   3.7.1.1 Develop process and performance indicators for
follow-up surveys to          baseline and follow-up surveys.



ANNEX 10
Page 10 of 10
measure changes in
process and performance   3.7.1.2 Coordinate with relevant implementing agencies to
indicators effected by         design and conduct baseline surveys suitable for
program interventions.         linkage with follow-up surveys to measure effect of
interventions on system processes and performance.
3.7.2 Establish a mechanism for  3.7.2.1 Identify means of providing timely feedback to and
feedback, evaluation and       from implementing agencies to serve as input into
action-oriented research       activity planning and implementation.
indicated by program
progress.                3.7.2.2 Identify criteria for action oriented research proposals
in implementing agencies at the central and
educational mudirriya levels and establish a
mechanism for providing assistance.
3.7.2.3 Establish peer group review panel to appraise and
approve of action oriented research proposals.
3.7.2.4 Establish a separate fund for action oriented research.



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2
GOVERNORATE PROGRAM GUIDELINES
The goals of the Education Enhancement Program are to build institutional
capacity, reduce dropout, improve leaming, and increase access for the
underserved and children with special needs. Govemorates are required to prepare
5-year programs for participation in EEP. The long temm aim of the program is to
include all govemorates in the EEP. Govemorate participation will be sequenced
according to the following general criteria.
Selection of participating Governorates:
* Govemorate is ready and willing to participate.
* Need for EEP support to improve enrollment and inclusion of under-
served groups especially girls.
* Govemorates propose sustainable interventions which are consistent with
the EEP strategic framework.
Proposals qualifying for support under the program would be financed annually
on the basis of performance reviews, plans and budgets for the subsequent year.
The EEP seeks to achieve effective program implementation at the national and
the govemorate level by coordinating both the five years governorate program
and its annual work plan with the national program.
The govemorate plans will have two components:
* The implementation of national program components in cooperation with
implementing agencies and govemorates.
* The implementation of program activities unique to the needs of
participating govemorate.
While variations in the approach to issues and strategies for reducing dropouts,
improving leaming and increasing access are likelv to emerge across
govemorates, the EEP will emphasize the following:
* Increase community and parent participation in school management.
* Increase participation and completion of basic education by girls.
* Train teachers at the school and cluster level.
* Train for principles, supervisors and other personnel to improve school
management.
* Improve supplementaxy leaming materials for students.
* Ensure availability of leaming aids (Media and Technology).
* Improve school facilities including water supply and toilets.
* Construct of needed schools and classrooms.
* Provide of services for children with special needs.
* Provide of support to altemative education wherever necessary



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
The programn requires participating governorates to establish a local govemorate
level PPMU which will have responsibility for planning, management and
implementation (see exhibit 3. 1).
* The EEP program will provide technical and financial support to the
participating govemorates in order to develop local capacities.
* Local level activities should include interventions which will have positive
impact on the education system and sustainability.
Financial Considerations in the Planning Process:
The limit for participating govemorates over the five-year period will be
detennined as part of the national plan. The actual amount of investment will,
however, vary from one govemorate to another depending on the assessment of
need.
EEP program funds should be additional to budget allocations for basic education.
The 5-year plan would contain a financial analysis of budget allocations and
actual expenditures on basic education for the last 3 years. These allocations must
be maintained in real terns for the time of program implementation with
additional funds provided through EEP.
Proposals will reflect the following issues:
* Promote consistency and ensure flexibility.
* Promote convergence of basic education and other activities such as
school health.
- Introduce innovations which can be replicated and expanded.



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 3
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
1       Procurement of ITF-financed contracts will be in accordance with IDA's
Procurement Guidelines. The procurement arrangements are summarized below.
Procurement Methods and Amounts in US$ Million
: xpedi;ture  Category                 ICB          NCB          Other9       i1ina    d       Tt
Civil Works
Schools (Years 1&2)a                                  96.4                                       96.4
(27.8)                                    (27.8)
Schools (Years 3-5)                                                               540.4         540.4
Goods
Equipment                                9.3                          5.4                        14.7
________________ __________ _ (9.3)  _(5.4)             (14.7)
Furniture                                                                          62.0          62.0
Educational Materials '                                                              8.7           8.7
Test Materials -                                                                     1.7           1.7
Vehicles                                                              0.3                          0.3
(0.3)                       (0.3)
Software                                                              0.2                         0.2
b____________________________ '________  _________   (0.2)                        (0.2)
School Meals '                                                                       1.1           1.1
Training & Tech. Assistance
Overseas Training D                                                                13.7          13.7
In-country Training b                                                              50.1          50.1
Conferences/Seminars b                                                               0.4          0.4
International Consultants                                             4.9                         4.9
(4.9)                       (4.9)
Local Consultants b                                                                  5.9          5.9
Miscellaneous
Honoraria b/                                                                         5.5          5.5
Campaigns b'                                                                         2.4          2.4
Improvement Grants                                                  27.1                         27.1
(27.1)                      (27.1)
Notes: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by ITF. Figures may not add up due to rounding.
a/ Financed 30 percent by ITF and 37 percent by EU.
b/ Financed 100 percent by EU.
c/ Includes Intemational Shopping (US$4.4 million); National Shopping (US$1.3 million); and
Direct Contract (US$0.16 million)



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
2.    The Procurement methods to be used and characteristics of the various contracts
are described below:
(a)   International Competitive Bidding (ICB) (US$9.3 million)
(i)   Equipment contracts estimated to cost more than US$250,000
would be procured through ICB in accordance with IDA
Guidelines. These contracts are estimated to cost about US$9.3
million equivalent representing about 72% of all equipment items
to be procured under the project.
(b)   National Competitive Bidding (NCB) (US$96.4 million)
(i)    Civil works contracts for the construction, rehabilitation and
expansion of schools (US$96.4 million) would be small (below
US$300,000 equivalent) and geographically dispersed. Therefore,
they are unlikely to interest foreign bidders'. Procurement of these
works would therefore follow National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) using standardized bidding documents based on the Bank's
Standard Bid Documents (SBDs) for small works. NCB
procedures would be advertised widely in local papers and would
not exclude the participation of interested bidders from other
eligible countries. These procedures have been reviewed by IDA
under an ongoing project (Cr. 2476-EGT) and deemed satisfactory.
(c)   International and National Shoppinsg (US5.75 million)
(i)   Equipment and Vehicles. Contracts estimated to cost less than
US$250,000 would be procured under International Shopping
procedures up to an aggregate of US$4.4 million. Contracts
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 would be procured under
National Shopping procedures up to an aggregate of US$1.3
million. The main items of equipment to be procured would be
audio and video media, computers and peripherals, printing
equipement, office machines (copier, faxes). Quantities would be
decided during the Annual Reviews and synchronized with other
activities.
ICB for school building was unsuccessful in the Basic Education Project (Cr. 2476-EGT ). Two
rounds of bidding interested only one foreign bidder in the first round whose prices were three times
higher than those of the local bidders.



ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 3
(d)   Other Procedures
(i)   Software and Intellectual Property contracts totaling about
US$0.16 million would be procured on terms satisfactory to ITF
following direct negotiations with property or copyright owners.
(ii)   Technical Assistance (TA) (US$4.9 million! Specialist services
would involve both consulting agencies and individual consultants.
The terms of reference for the major TA packages were reviewed
and agreed during appraisal. Others would be subject to ITF
review during project implementation.
(iii)  Procurement Restrictions The proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods and
works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from,
countries participating in the ITF; consequently, nationals of
countries that are not Participating Countries and bidders offering
goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so
specify. Only consultants from Participating Countries shall be
eligible to provide services financed out the proceeds of the
Interim Fund Credit.
Contract Reviews
3.    During project supervision, the following would be subject to IDA prior review:
(a)   all goods contracts procured under ICB (above US$250,000);
(b)   all consultant contracts for firms above US$100,000, and for individuals
above US$50,000.
4.    The above prior review processes would cover about 70 percent of all ITF-
financed goods, and about 85% of consultancy and training services. Given the large
number of repetitive contracts this is satisfactory. In addition, IDA supervision missions
would carry out selective ex-post reviews on about 1 in 10 contracts.



ANNEX 13
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA FISCAL YEAR AND    DISBURSEMENT DURING                  CUMULATIVE             PERCENTAGE OF
SEMESTER ENDING                 SEMESTER                DISBURSEMENT              l[OTAL CREDIT
(US$ Million)              (US$ Million)
1997
June30, 1997                          10.0                       10.0                      13
1998
December 30, 1997                      2.0                       20.0                      27
June 30, 1998                          8.0
1999
December 30, 1998                      5.0                       35.0                      47
June 30, 1999                         10.0
2000               8.0                       55.0                      73
December 30, 1999                     12.0
June 30, 2000
2001
December 30, 2000                      6.0                       65.0                      87
June 30, 2001                          4.0
2002
December 30, 2001                      5.0                       75.0                      100
June 30, 2002                          5.0
Disbursement Plan vs. Profile
100 
90 
80
70-
401,~~ ~_. 60.                                ..._.. ._... .. _..._
60                                                PR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~FILE
050-
40                                                                PLRAN
30 
20-
100 -
FY



ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 7
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
BUDGET ANALYSIS
1.     Budget Effort for Education. During the 1990s the Govemment of Egypt markedlv
increased its expenditures on education in line with the improvement in its overall
macroeconomic situation - from 12 percent of total expenditures in fiscal vear 1991 to 19 percent
in fiscal 1996. These expenditures, projected to be LE 11 billion (US$3.3 billion) in fiscal 1996,
averaged 6 percent in real annual growth over the period (Tables B1,1B2). During the same
period, total real expenditures bv the Govemment declined bv an average of 1 percent per year
(Table B21). The largest increase in education spending was directed towards an ambitious
school construction program. tripling education's share of the Govemment's total investment
budget, from 6 to 18 percent, over the six vear period. Educational investment was LE 2.2 billion
in 1996, more than twice its 1991 level.
2.      Current expenditures on education also increased - from  16 percent to 19 percent of total
govemment current and investment expenditures - chiefly due to rapid hiring of pre-university
TABLE 1. EGYPT: GROWTH IN PRE-UNIVERSITY TEACHERS, 1991.1996
Growth
1990/1991   1991/1992   1992/1993   1993/1994   1994/1995   1995/1996   1990/91 to
1995196
Primary          239,000     257.000    271,000    270,000    271,000     281,000       18%
Preparatory      140,000     148,000    146,000    147,000     155,000    167,000       19%
Secondary        115,000     122,000    141,000    151,000     156,000    171,000       49%
Total            494,000     527,000    558,000    568,000    582,000     619,000       25%
Source: Ministry of Education
teachers (Table 1). The teaching corps, which expanded by 25 percent over the period, grew
significantlv faster than did enrollments in pre-universitv education, which grew 18 percent over
the same period. Increased hiring of teachers was the main reason for a 46 percent increase in the
real wage bill for pre-universitv education, but was not implemented at the expense of resources
for non-wage items such as textbooks. In fact, real non-wage expenditures increased by an
impressive 56 percent over the period (Table B41). During the last several years, non-wage
expenditures have fluctuated between 18 and 20 percent of current educational expenditures
Table references not in the text of this annex are in Annex 1, Part B.



ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 7
(Table B31). This is not quite so impressive as it mav seem, because low teacher salaries act to
depress the relative share of wages.
3.      Allocation to Educational Levels. Financial allocations to different levels of education
should vary according to the strength of the justification for public spending at each level. No
analvsis has been carried out on this question in Egypt, however the allocation of 71 to 73
percent of total recurrent expenditure to pre-university education in most of the reference period
is low by intemational standards (i.e., 80-86 percent for averages of low and medium-income
countries in world regions2). This overemphasis on higher education in Egypt is unlikelv to be
justified considering the country's high level of educated unemployed and the smaller degree of
market failure in higher education than at lower levels. At the tertiary level, students have
greater information about emplovment opportunities after graduation, and targeting of student
assistance to the poor is feasible. The allocation of current expenditure among the four levels of
the Egyptian education system is shown in Table 2. These budget shares indicate little about
whether an overemphasis on higher levels of education prevails; further analysis using per-
student allocations is necessary to make this determination (see below). However, over the
six-year reference period, the emphasis on primary and higher education was reversed, with
primary education increasing from 29 percent to 31 percent and higher education declining from
34 percent to 27 percent of total education spending. This constitutes a considerable shift of
resources in a relatively brief period of time.
TABLE 2. EGYPT: ESTIMATED GOVERNMENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES BY LEVEL, 1991-1996
(In percent)
Actual       Actual      Actual        Actual      Budget      Budget
1990/1991    1991/1992   1992/1993    1993/1994    1994/1995    1995/1996
Primary                   29           28           30           32           32          31
Preparatory               21           20           19           19           20          21
Secondary                 16           15           18           19           20          21
Higher                    34           36           33           29           27          27
Total                    100          100          100           100          100        100
Source: Table B-5, Annex 1. See footnotes there. See also Table B-6.
4.      Per-Student Allocations. In 1995/96 per-student allocations for education were LE 459
(US$135) for Vrimarv, LE 624 (US$184) for preparatory and LE 928 (US$274) for secondarv
(Tables B7,B8 ). Over the fiscal years 1991-1996, unit allocations in all three levels increased
significantly in real terms, with the average primary unit allocation increasing at an average rate
of 4 percent per year, preparatory at 5 percent, and secondary at 3 percent per year.
World Bank, Priorities and Strategies for Education: A World Bank Review, Washington, DC, 1995,
Table 3.2, p.56.



ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 7
5.       International Comparison. According to an intemational comparison using 1990 data
- i.e. the period just prior to the large increases in Egypt's public educational expenditures -
Egypt still ranked first among 17 countries in current expenditure per primary student as a
percentage of per-capita GDP (Table 3).
TABLE 3: PUBLIC CURRENT EXPENDITURE ON PRIMARY EDUCATION,
SELECTED COMPARATOR COUNTRIES, 1990
GDP per Capita     Current Primary     Ratio of Secondary       Rato of Tertiary
At Purchasing      Expenditure per      To Primary Per          To Primary Per
Power Parity     Studert as Percent     Studernt Current       Studert Current
(USs)        Of GDP per Capita /I      Expenditure            Expenditure
Rank                 Rank                  Rank                  Rank
Urunuay                6000      1            8%      11           1.3      2             3.5      2
Malaysia               5900      2           15%       2            1.7     5             8.3    10
Colombia               4950      3            6%      13            1.7     5             6.0      4
Braza                  4780      4           11%       6           1.2      1            10.0    13
Thailand               4610      5            9%       9            1.8     8             2.9      1
Iran                   4360      6            7%     12            2.1     10             7.7      9
Syrian Arab Rep.       4110      7            9%       9            1.6     4             5.8      3
Tunisia                3979      8           12%       5           2.3    11              9.7    12
Egypt (1991)           3100 /1   9           16%      1            1.7      5             7.5      7 11
Morocco                2670    10            14%       3           3.9    16              8.3    10
China                   1950    11            5%      15           3.0    12             38.6    15
India                  1150    12            11%      6             1.4     3             7.5      7
Ghana                   1120    13            5%      15           3.4    13            136.0    16
Kenya                  1120    13            13%       4           3.6    14              6.5      6
Banrgldesh             1050    15             6%     13            3.7    15              6.2      5
Zaire                   950    16             4%      17            1.8     8            34.5    14
Tanzania                540    17            11%       6           17.5    17           258.5    17
Source UNESCO World Education Report 1993, World Bank World Development Report 1992, and mission estimates
1l 1990
6.       This indicates the strong budgetary effort Egypt has made   in primarv education.3
Relative to the comparator countries, Egypt did not finance primarv education at the expense of
secondary education; its ratio of secondary to primary expenditures ranked fifth highest among
the 17 countries in the group. Despite the high percentage of the budget spent on higher
education in 1990/1991 (discussed above), the relative unit cost of higher education in Egypt in
1990 - 7.5 times the unit cost of primarv education - was seventh highest among the comparator
countries, below a selection of countries mainly in Latin America and Asia but above most
African and Middle East countries on the list.
The comparator countries are a set low or middle income countries for which 1990 data exist and
which are relatively large in population or geographically in the Middle East.



ANNEX 14
Page 4 of 7
FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY
7.    Current Cost Implications of Program  Investments. To increase access to basic
education and improve its quality the Government plans an ambitious school construction
program within the context of the EEP. Quality improvement would be achieved through
reducing the number of schools with multiple shifts and reducing average primary and
preparatory class sizes from 47 and 44 students respectively, to forty. The largest share of
recurrent costs implied by program investments will be for maintenance, staffing and supplies in
new schools. All of the new school facilities (approximately 11,900 additional classrooms per
year, excluding replacement classrooms) will require current budget allocations for maintenance.
Without rationalization of the use of teachers, which in tum would require comprehensive civil
service reform, 8,600 classrooms per year (excluding those replacing multiple shift schools), will
need to be staffed with teachers. This will add additional salary expense to the budget if teachers
are added according to current staffing pattems. The 6,000 classrooms constructed to increase
access will have also to be supplied with learning materials for the new students.
8.    The EEP components for improved teaching and learning and capacity building also
imply greater Govenmment spending at the central level, and in Governorates participating in the
project, on building and equipment maintenance, equipment replacement, and on goods and
services. An analysis of the sustainability of these various additional expenditures within the
expected overall macroeconomic and budget context, and without donor assistance beyond the
five-vear time frame of the EEP, is therefore necessary.
9.    Macroeconomic Context. The size and growth of the overall govemment budget, and
of the education budget, will be influenced in the future by general economic performance, as
well as by particular policy decisions. A 1995 World Bank forecast analyzed the medium and
long-term  impact of a reinforced economic reform  agenda which centers on maintaining
macroeconomic discipline, improving the conditions for private sector growth, reducing the size
of the govemment sector and liberalizing the intemational trade regime. The forecast projects
growth of GDP and govemment expenditures (Table 4). Under the no change scenario, growth
in government spending for current and fixed investment was projected to lie in the range of 0.2
to 1.8 percent during the 1995-2012 period. Under the reform scenario, growth in spending was
forecast to be larger, but stiUl under 4.5 percent in all vears.



ANNEx 14
Page 5 of 7
TABLE 4 EGYPT: FORECAST REAL GROWTH RATES OF MACROECONOMIC
AND BUDGET VARIABLES
No Change Scenario               Reform Scenario
1995-   2001-  2007-            1995-  2001-  2007-
2000    2006   2012             2000   2006   2012
GDP                                   2.4%     2.5%    2.4%           4.3%    5.9%    6.7%
Current Government Expenditures       0.2%     1.8%    1.7%            1.6%    3.7%    4.5%
Budgetary Fixed Investment            1.5%     0.7%    0.7%           2.8%    3.9%    2.2%
Source: World Bank, 1995           Note: ExpenditurevariablesdeflatedusingtheGDPdeflator.
10.    Sustainability Analysis. This analysis shows that the current expenditures implied by
the EEP would be easily sustainable within the likely macroeconomic and budgetary context
indicated above. In 2002, the year following completion of the first phase of the EEP, additional
expenditures implied by this first phase would be less than 1 percent of both total and pre-
university educational expenditures, assuming real growth in these of zero to five percent per
year during the project period (Table 4). In 2011, the implied expenditures would still be only 2
to 4 percent of total education expenditures and 3 to 6 percent of pre-university expenditures, on
the assumption that the real annual growth rates on these expenditures would be 0 to 5 percent
over the period 1997-2011 (Table B91). At this level, the implied recurrent costs due to EEP
investments would be easily financed by the Govemnment with minimal adjustment to its overall
expenditure program. This conclusion is not very sensitive to assumptions on budgetary growth
or decline outside the expected range. For instance, an unlikelv cumulative real budgetary
decline of 3 percent per vear during the 15-vear period would increase the implied incremental
expenditures to only 6 percent of education expenditures.
TABLE 5. CURRENT COST IMPLICATIONS OF PROGRAM INVESTMENTS 1997-2001 (MIL.1996 LE)
Program Element                                 2002             2006             2011
Constuction-Rated
Increased Enrollment                              24             119              238
Reducion in CAass Size                            7               37               73
Reduction in Multiple Shifts                      3               13               26
Subtotbl                                     34              169             337
Improved Teaching and Lerning                       32               32              32
Equipment Maintenance and Replacment                 3                3               3
Total                                      69              204              373
Percent of Projected Education Budget
Assuming Real Growth of
6%                                        1%               1%               2%/
0%                                        1%               2%               4%
43%                                        1%               3%              6%
source I aDbe WM, Annex 1



ANNEX 14
Page 6 of 7
COST ANALYSIS OF INTERVENTIONS
11.   Analysis of the cost effectiveness of project interventions on student learning was not
possible with available data. However, analysis of least-cost altematives in school construction
and teacher training did yield some conclusions.
12.   First, the Government has selected new  school designs for future primary and
preparatory school construction based on proposals suggested by a World Bank architectural
consultant. The new designs result in a more effective layout of classrooms and circulation in a
smaller area. Based on World Bank and Ministry of Education projections, this will result in
cost savings of approximately US$40 million per year (total annual savings to the construction
program due to IDA proposals, including those to reduce the number of schools to be built,
would be about $70 million).
13.    Second, the Government chose to invest in what appears to be the more cost-effective of
two teacher training options. The choice was between (a) reforming the current cascade training
system, which is now performing at a very low level of effectiveness, and (b) implementing
training based on distance leaming. Little data exist to provide cost figures for either option in
Egypt, but evidence from Sri Lanka - where a 1991 USAID-financed study4 provides some
relevant intemational evidence. The study concluded that teacher training based on distance
learning techniques was more cost effective than the traditional in-service training programs
provided by teachers' colleges. Using a composite index to measure improvement in trainees'
knowledge and skills in mathematics and language, the study found that the cost of the distance-
learning program per unit improvement in knowledge and skills was only one-third of the cost of
the traditional program.
H. Dean Nielson and M. Tatto, "The Cost Effectiveness of Distance Education for Teacher Training,
BRIDGES Project, Harvard Institute for International Development, April 1991.



ANNEx 14
Page 7 of 7
TABLE 6. EGYPT: COMPARISON OF IN-SERVICE TEACHER TRAINING OPTIONS
REVAMPED CASCADE TRAINING            INTEGRA TED DISTANCE LEARNING
Egypt's traditional cascade training system, The   teacher-training   alternative   to
in which experts at the top train large  revamping the current cascade system is to
Description      groups of teacher-trainers, who in turn train  substitute quality distance learning materials
teachers, is not currently delivering much  (print, radio, satellite and video-cassette TV
training, and that which it does deliver is programs),  group  learning  processes,
low in quality. If adopted as a program  opportunities for interaction at a distance,
option, the current system  would have  regional learning centers, and school-based
needed to be strengthened by improving  facilitators ("master teachers") for the
training materials and training for trainers. traditional  trainers.    Group  learning
Measured training impact likely would  processes, the school-based facilitators and
have approached that of cascade training  the involvement of school principals are
systems in other countries, which are  designed to lead to changes in school culture
typically   effective   in  transmitting  to move learning practice away from rote
information but less effective in changing  memorization toward problem-solving and
teacher classroom  behavior and student independent thinking.
_____ _____ ____ lea rning.__                          _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
> Easy to organize training programs   > High learner interaction with high-
Advantages         ' Face to face training                  quality materials
=  Learning materials relatively simple, => Less distortion of training content
and non-consonant materials tolerated    >  Extra incentive for teachers to be self-
r  Cross-fertilization through inter-school  directed learners
collegial contact                  =  Easy  transition   to  inter-school
computer-mediated telecom.
= Economies of scale in production of
learning materials
=, Cost-effective method when scale
economies are realized
=> Group learning processes
> Likelihood of distortion of training  => High, up-front cost
Disadvantages        content                            =>  Long lead time
=> Drawbacks of passive learning       => Use of technology requires maintenance
> Lack of transfer to classroom practice  capability and secure storage
z> Labor  and  travel  intensive  and  => Dependent for success on quality of
therefore relatively costly           learning material
>  These large costs being from current  >  Centralization   may  inhibit  local
budgets results when they are under    initiative
pressure in few courses despite large  => Cost-ineffective when economies of
training staff.                        scale not realized
Training outside of context of the
school will usually have limited impact
on school culture



ANNEX 15
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Adkins, Doug; Economic Benefits Of Public Expenditure In Education In Egypt; 1996
Altman, Robert; Testing For Educational Standards In Egvpt; 1996
Arab Republic of Egypt, MOE; Education By Technologv; 1994
Assad, Ragui; The Effects of Public Sector Hiring & Compensation Policies On The Egyptian
Labor Market; Economic Research Forum, Cairo; 1995
Carrol, David; The Grade 3 and 5 Assesment in Egypt;
Creative Associates International; Improving Girls' Participation in Basic Education in Egypt:
USAID and Other Donors' Contribution: 1994
Fergany, Nader; Survey of Access to Primary Education and Acquisition of Basic Literacy Skills
in Three Governorates in Egypt, UNICEF, Cairo; 1994
Hanushek, Eric and Lavy, Peter; School Ouality. Achievement Bias. and Dropout Behavior in
Egypt, LSMS Working Paper No. 107; 1994
National Population Council; Egypt Demographic and Health Survey; 1996
Pritchett, Lant; Where Has All The Education Gone?, WB Policy Research Working Paper;
1996
Robinson, Makary and Pugh; Fourth Annual Report Of The Study Of USAID Contributions To
The Egyptian Basic Education Progrwn; Creative Associates International; 1987
McLelland, Samuel; The Egyptian Basic Education System; 1996
Nagy, Saad; Basic Education In Egypt. A Framework For Accountability; The World Bank;
1996
Nielsen and Tatto; The Cost-Effectiveness of Distance Education For Teacher Training; 1991
Shahriari, Helen; Girls' Education; The World Bank; 1996
Sigurdsson, Sverrir and Villatoro, Evelyn; Implementing Projects At Arm's Length; World
Bank, 1995
Third World Forum, Cairo; Basic Education And Female Illiteracy In Egypt; 1994
UNICEF & Arab Republic of Egypt MOE; Evaluation of Egypt's Communitv School Project;
1995
USAID; RFP on Girls' And Women's Education Activity; RFP #OP/B/HNE-96-004; 1996
USAID; Egvpt: School Maintenance Plan; 1993
Visser, Jan; Implementation of Technology. Distance Leaming. And In-Service Teacher
Training; 1996



MAP SECTION






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EDUCATION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
IBRD 28129
280                              320                            360
M Mediterrtanean  Sea                                             '                  320
1       Marsa Matruh0 AR xao r0 ',                                             \.               J D     \'
)                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISRAEL ~JRA
, /                                         Shibin el    caimoiliya1
I j ARAB  REPUBLIC                                    iSu                            .
OF  EGYPT    El Minyac                                                            SAD
280 j            O   F   E G  Y  P T          EIMinyaof                    .  .,       , J         ARABIA  28"
Assiut             Hurghada
Sohag                      .
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Q,Qena
!               ®      NATIONAL CAPITAL                              )                    Seci
--  _" >RIVERS                                     Aiuxor
Motaan
)0Kom OCbo
-240                                                                      ,Aswan                             24A"
As wan
Daim
! 0       50    100    150 MILES                               Nakr,
l   I  I      I                                                 2Nassel,
0   50  100 150 KILOMETERS
I s mop s produc bO m Map Dmiign tnit of ThWl SWnk. k
thismop ronoimpk, nfthwporth& W=nkSnroup, omy                        SUDAN
| ons ,,ftiusf any,ombW', or any ondorsemnt or occpance of    320                                  360
JUNE 1996









IMAGING
Report No:      15750 EGT
Type: SAR



