Report No. PIC4199
Project Name                   Egypt-Education Enhancement Program
Region                         Middle East and North Africa
Sector                         Education
Project ID                     EGPA5169
Borrower                       Government of Egypt
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Education
Date This PID Updated          August 19, 1996
Date Initial PID Prepared      February 21, 1996
Projected Appraisal Date       May 1996
Planned Projected Board Date   December 1996
1.   Country & Sector Background   The major priorities for education in
Egypt, as laid out by President Hosni Mubarak in the National Program
for General Education, are: (a) to ensure universal access to basic
education, with an emphasis on girls; and (b) to significantly upgrade
the quality of education so that students can obtain the critical
skills needed to compete in the global economy. Reform of compulsory
education, including sector management at the central level and
involvement of local levels in planning and implementation of
initiatives to change the process of schooling, is the Government's
most urgent priority in education.
2.   While universal enrolent has been nearly achieved for boys and
girls for primary stage, enrolent rate in preparatory stage is
significantly lower for both groups. Gender disparity is also most
pronounced at the preparatory stage and at all levels of basic
education in poor rural areas. The Government is attempting to meet
the objective of providing universal access through a capital
construction program which has tripled education's share of Government
investment. However, it has failed so far to take into account the
obstacles to parental demand for girls education in culturally
conservative areas.
3.   The quality of teaching and of learning outcomes throughout the
system is low. A 1994 UNICEF survey suggests a decline in the
acquisition of basic literacy skills and in the attainment of
mathematical skills. Repetition rates are high for boys and girls,
contributing to low completion rates and overcrowded classroom. In
addition, efficiency in resource use is poor in all aspects of the
sector. School designs have costs five to twenty percent over
efficient construction and space utilization standards. Approximately
two teachers are employed per class, but classes are taught by one
teacher.
4.   Project Objectives   The objectives of the project are to enhance
the Government's ability to achieve Egypt's long term goals in basic
education with respect to improving: (a) coverage, particularly for



girls; (b) the quality of student learning; and (c) efficiency of the
education system.
5.   Project Description   The Government has developed a long term
Strategic Framework defining the Education Enhancement Program (EEP).
The Strategic Framework consists of thirteen objectives for basic
education and the interventions the Government will employ to achieve
these objectives. It is expected that a series of operations, of
which the current project is the first, would be necessary to achieve
these objectives over 15 to 20 years. The Strategic Framework has the
following three main program areas:
Access & Equity The goals of this program area are to maintain
the high enrolent rate for boys and remove the gender disparities
in girls' enrolent in basic education through: (i) measures
identified by community preference surveys to increase local
demand for schooling, especially among girls; (ii) refining the
school mapping exercise used to site schools; and (iii) targeting
and implementing a needs based school construction program to
increase access, with an emphasis on girls.
Improving the Quality of Student Performance The goals of this
program area are to significantly increase students' achievement
of basic skills and help improve their critical thinking skills
in participating governorates through: (i) school construction to
reduce class size and multiple shifts, and by providing support
to students with moderate learning difficulties; (ii) improving
the quality of teaching and learning by reforming in-service
teacher training, ensuring effective use in schools and
classrooms of technology and distance learning, instituting
student learning assessments which facilitate accountability
throughout the sector, and introducing quality assurance systems
for teachers and for schools; (iii) improving the quality of pre-
service teacher training programs by establishing a teacher
training improvement fund; and (iv) building the capacity of the
main implementing agencies at the central and Governorate levels.
System Efficiency The goals of this program area are to improve
the management of sector resources and to enable improvements in
system effectiveness through enhancing sector planning, decision
making and management. Specifically the project would (i)
implement efficient school building designs, (ii) study
improvement of teacher compensation and incentives; and (iii)
reform decision making process through setting up technical
panels to provide decision-makers with recommendations based on
objective data and technical analysis.
6.   Project Financing   Project cost is estimated to be US$835 million,
of which IDA would finance US$75 million, the Government US$635
million and the European Union US$1 million.
7.   Project Implementation   The Government will each year develop and
implement an Annual Work Plan containing activities required to
achieve the goals of the Strategic Framework. Overall management of
the program would be carried out by the Program Planning and
-2 -



Management Unit (PPMU). PPMU will ensure coherence between local and
central level activities, through providing technical assistance to
Implementing Agencies and feedback for program implementation.
Management of the program at the Governorate level will be carried out
by the Governorate level PPMUs. These units will direct planning and
implementation of local level program activities in response to
specific needs in the community. To facilitate the work of PPMU
counterpart units at the Governorate level, a Supreme Consultative
Committee and a Local Advisory Body would be established.
8.   Project Sustainability   Incremental expenditures due to the program
could easily be financed with little adjustment to the Government's
education or overall budget. It is estimated that by 2002,
incremental expenditures due to the EEP would be less than one percent
of pre-university educational expenditures, even assuming zero real
growth in education spending. Regarding institutional sustainability,
the use of technical panels to provide input for policymakers will
establish an institutionalized process for continuing the
identification, design and adoption of sound and relevant
interventions for the EEP, and will generalize this process to policy
setting in the sector as a whole.
9.   Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement   Ongoing projects (the
Engineering and Technical Education Project [Ln. 3137] and the Basic
Education Improvement Project [Cr. 24761) experienced low disbursement
in their initial years, mainly due to slow parliamentary ratification
of the projects, as well as the unfamiliarity of Egyptian staff with
IDA procurement and disbursement rules for civil works and equipment.
Counterpart staff have been thoroughly trained in IDA procurement
guidelines and procedures, and disbursements have accelerated
considerably.
10. Poverty & Program Objectives Category Although poverty alleviation is
not an explicit objective of the project, improving educational
opportunities for girls in rural areas will lead to enhanced earning
prospects as well as reduced fertility levels and improved maternal
and child health indicators.
11. Environmental Aspects The proposed project has been cleared for
Category 'C'. No adverse environmental impact from the proposed
project is expected. There will be a series of small construction
contracts as part of the operation, and implementing agencies will be
required to ensure the appropriate environmental protection measures
are taken as part of each construction contract.
12. Project Benefits The project will contribute to: (a)
institutionalizing a decision-making process based on objective data
and technical analysis; (b) increasing coverage, particularly for
girls and in areas with low demand; (c) improving student learning in
participating governorates; and (d) enhancing the efficiency in the
use of resources in the sector.
13. Project Risks The main risk would be the resistance to the broad
range of changes proposed by the EEP. The project would address this
risk by developing a shared understanding of program strategies among
-3 -



all relevant actors through seminars, workshops and pre-effectiveness
activities, through the participatory planning approach which
encourages actors to articulate their views and contribute actively to
the development of the program, as well as through its capacity
building measures.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 23,
1996.
-4-



