Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF-029508 EGT
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
(Education Quality Enhancement Program)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated May
14,
1996
TF-029508 EGT
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May
14, 1996, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) acting as 
Administrator
(the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS
(A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990, between Japan 
and the Bank and the International Development Association
(the Association), Japan 
has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have
agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of
certain programs and projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as the case
may be, in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS
(B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of 
said grant funds
(the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical 
assistance described in the Schedule to this Agreement
(the Technical Assistance) on 
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS
(C) the Recipient has requested the Association to carry out the 
Technical Assistance;
WHEREAS
(D) the Association has agreed to carry out the Technical Assistance on 
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions; Term of Technical Assistance
Section
1.01. The Technical Assistance shall be undertaken by consultants (the 
Consultants) who shall be suitably qualified for carrying out the tasks assigned to 
them.
Section
1.02. As used in this Agreement, the terms "dollar" and "$" mean the 
currency of the United States of America.
Section
1.03. The Consultants are expected to commence their services on March 
1, 1996 and to provide a total of 24 man-months of service between that time and 
September
30, 1997. 
ARTICLE II
Responsibilities of the Administrator
Section
2.01. The Grant to be provided by Japan for the Technical Assistance 
shall be in an amount of three hundred fifty thousand dollars
($350,000).
Section
2.02. The Administrator shall utilize the Grant to finance the following 
expenditures in connection with the services of the Consultants:
(a)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
(b)
international and local travel, workshops and training expenses; and
(c)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and reports, incurred by 
the Consultants in foreign and local currency in the performance of their services.
Section
2.03. The Administrator shall make reasonable efforts to secure the 
services of the Consultants.
Section
2.04. The recruitment, engagement and supervision of the Consultants 
shall be the responsibility solely of the Administrator and shall be done according to
the Bank
’s applicable procedures.
ARTICLE III
Responsibilities of the Recipient
Section
3.01. The Recipient shall cooperate with the Administrator and the 
Consultants to ensure that the Technical Assistance is carried out promptly and
effectively and, for this purpose, shall issue appropriate instructions to its
officials, agents and representatives.
Section
3.02. The Recipient shall:
(a)
make arrangements for all personnel of the Consultants assigned to the 
Technical Assistance
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) and all dependents of such personnel promptly to be 
provided with any necessary entry and exit visas, residence and work permits, exchange
documents and travel documents required for their stay in the Recipient's territories
during the duration of the Technical Assistance;
(b)
facilitate clearance through its customs of any equipment, materials and 
supplies required for the Technical Assistance and any personal effects of the
personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical Assistance
(other than
nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and 
the dependents of such personnel;
(c)
permit the Consultants to bring into, and withdraw from, the Recipient's 
territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for purposes related to the
Technical Assistance;
(d)
permit the personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical 
Assistance
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the 
Page  3
Recipient's territories
)
and the dependents of such personnel to bring into, and
withdraw from, the Recipient's territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for
their personal use; and
(e)
exempt the Consultants and the personnel of the Consultants assigned to 
the Technical Assistance from
(or the Recipient shall pay on behalf of the Consultants
and such personnel) any taxes, duties, fees, levies and other impositions imposed 
under the laws and regulations in effect in the Recipient's territories on the
Consultants and such personnel in respect of:
(i)
any payments whatsoever made to the Consultants and such personnel 
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) in connection with the carrying out 
of the Technical Assistance;
(ii)
any equipment, materials and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the
Technical Assistance and which, after having been brought into
such territories, will be subsequently withdrawn therefrom by
them;
(iii)
any equipment, material and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the
Technical Assistance and which will be consumed therein or become
the property of the Recipient; and
(iv)
any property brought into the Recipient's territories by the 
Consultants or such personnel
(other than nationals of the
Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories)
or the dependents of such personnel for their personal use and
which will be consumed therein or subsequently withdrawn therefrom
by them upon their respective departure from the Recipient's
territories, provided that the Consultants, such personnel and
their dependents shall follow the usual customs procedures of the
Recipient in importing property into the Recipient's territories.
Section
3.03. The Recipient shall be responsible for dealing with any claims 
arising out of, or resulting from, the Technical Assistance that may be brought by
third parties against the Administrator. The Recipient shall indemnify the 
Administrator against any costs, claims, damages or liabilities arising out of, or
resulting from, any acts or omissions in connection with the Technical Assistance,
except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the
Administrator.
Section
3.04. The Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of 
charge, the data, services, facilities and equipment required by the Consultants for
the carrying out of the Technical Assistance.
Section
3.05. The Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of 
charge, such counterpart personnel to be selected by the Recipient, with the advice of
the Administrator and the Consultants. If any member of the counterpart personnel 
fails to perform adequately any work assigned to such member by the Consultants that
is consistent with the position occupied by such member, the Consultants may request
the replacement of such member, and the Recipient shall not unreasonably refuse to act
upon such request.
ARTICLE IV
Reports and Other Matters
Section
4.01. The Recipient and the Administrator shall, from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the Technical Assistance and consult on
any reports prepared by the Consultants and the implementation of any recommendations
made in those reports.
Section
4.02. The Administrator may use any reports prepared by the Consultants 
for any purpose that the Administrator may consider appropriate but those reports may
not be made public except by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator.
ARTICLE V
Enforceability of Agreement; Failure
Page  4
to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
Section
5.01. The rights and obligations of the Administrator and the Recipient 
under this Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance with their terms
notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision thereof to the contrary. 
Neither the Administrator nor the Recipient shall be entitled in any proceeding under
this Article to assert any claim that any provision of this Agreement is invalid or
unenforceable because of any provision of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
Section
5.02. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power 
or remedy accruing to any party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair any
such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence
in such default.
No action of such party in respect of any default, or any
acquiescence by it in any default, shall affect or impair any right, power or remedy
of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section
5.03. (a) Any controversy between the parties to this Agreement, and any 
claim by any such party against any other such party arising under this Agreement
which has not been settled by agreement of the parties shall be submitted to
arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b)
The parties to such arbitration shall be the Administrator on the one 
side and the Recipient on the other side.
(c)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as 
follows:
one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Administrator; a second arbitrator
shall be appointed by the Recipient; and the third arbitrator
(hereinafter sometimes
called the Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they shall 
not agree, by the President of the International Court of Justice or, failing
appointment by said President, by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. If 
either side shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by
the Umpire. In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance with this Section shall 
resign, die or become unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the
same manner as herein prescribed for the appointment of the original arbitrator and
such successor shall have all the powers and duties of such original arbitrator.
(d)
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon 
notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the other party. Such notice shall 
contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be
submitted to arbitration, the nature of the relief sought and the name of the
arbitrator appointed by the party instituting such proceeding.
Within thirty days
after such notice, the other party shall notify to the party instituting the
proceeding the name of the arbitrator appointed by such other party.
(e)
If within sixty days after the notice instituting the arbitration 
proceeding, the parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire, any party may request
the appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph
(c) of this Section.
(f)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be 
fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when 
it shall sit.
(g)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its 
competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the
parties shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall be by majority vote.
(h)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to all parties a fair hearing and 
shall render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award 
signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of such
Tribunal.
A signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any 
such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final
and binding upon the parties to this Agreement. Each party shall abide by and comply 
with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the
provisions of this Section.
(i)
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators 
and such other persons as shall be required for the conduct of the arbitration
proceedings. If the parties shall not agree on such amount before the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be
reasonable under the circumstances. The Administrator and the Recipient shall each 
defray its own expenses in the arbitration proceedings. The costs of the Arbitral 
Page  5
Tribunal shall be divided between and borne equally by the Administrator on the one
side and the Recipient on the other. Any question concerning the division of the costs 
of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for payment of such costs shall be
determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.
(j)
The provisions of arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu 
of any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to this
Agreement or of any claim by any such party against any other such party arising
thereunder.
(k)
The Administrator shall not be entitled to enter judgment against the 
Recipient upon the award, to enforce the award against the Recipient by execution or
to pursue any other remedy against the Recipient for the enforcement of the award,
except as such procedure may be available against the Recipient otherwise than by
reason of the provisions of this Section. If, within thirty days after counterparts of 
the award shall have been delivered to the parties, the award shall not be complied
with by the Administrator, the Recipient may take any such action for the enforcement
of the award against the Administrator.
(l)
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under 
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered
pursuant to this Section shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed 
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address specified in this Agreement or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The parties to this Agreement waive any and all other 
requirements for the service of any such notice or process.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date, Suspension
and Termination
Section
6.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties.
Section
6.02. The Recipient may at any time request the Administrator in writing 
to terminate the Technical Assistance. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a 
request, the Administrator may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the
Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the
Technical Assistance if any of the following circumstances shall have occurred and be
continuing:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to make payment (notwithstanding the fact 
that such payment may have been made by a third party) of principal, interest, service 
charges or any other amount due to the Association or the Bank: (i) under any 
development credit agreement between the Recipient and the Association, or
(ii) under 
any loan or guarantee agreement between the Recipient and the Bank, or
(iii) in 
consequence of any guarantee or other financial obligation of any kind extended by the
Bank to any third party with the agreement of the Recipient.
(b)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any obligation under this 
Agreement.
(c)
(i) The Bank or the Association shall have suspended in whole or in part 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank
or development credit agreement with the Association because of a failure by the
Recipient to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; or
(ii) the Bank 
shall have suspended in whole or in part the right of any borrower to make withdrawals
under a loan agreement with the Bank guaranteed by the Recipient because of a failure
by such borrower to perform any of its obligations under such agreement.
(d)
Any event shall have arisen that, in the opinion of the Administrator, 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the successful implementation of the
Technical Assistance, the accomplishment of its purposes, or the execution of the
Technical Assistance in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
(e)
The Recipient: (i) shall have been suspended from membership in or ceased 
to be a member of the Bank; or
(ii) shall have ceased to be a member of the 
International Monetary Fund.
Page  6
(f)
A representation made by the Recipient, in or pursuant to this Agreement, 
or any statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by
the Administrator in making the Grant, shall have been incorrect in any material
respect.
Section
6.03. If the Technical Assistance is suspended or terminated, the 
Recipient and the Administrator shall consult with each other concerning any further
action that may be necessary or desirable.
Section
6.04. The Administrator is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient 
and shall not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall 
have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Administrator
pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Representation
Section
7.01. All communications with respect to this Agreement shall be 
addressed as follows:
For the Recipient:
The First Undersecretary for
International Finance
Ministry of Economy and
International Cooperation
8
Adly Street
Cairo, Egypt
Cable address:
Telex:
Ministry of Economy and
927-23348
International Cooperation, Cairo
For the Administrator:
Middle East and North Africa Region
Country Department II
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as
of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By
/s/ Nadia El-Tatawy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
Page  7
By
/s/ Inder Sud
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE
Description of Technical Assistance
The objective of the Technical Assistance is to assist the Recipient in the
development of a program to enhance education access and quality.
The Technical Assistance consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Recipient and the Administrator may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:
1.
Preparation of a five-year strategy for pre-university education access and 
quality enhancement, including an implementation matrix therefor and a detailed
implementation work plan for the first year thereof.
2.
Carrying out of cost-efficiency studies on school space and staff utilization 
and of reviews and evaluations of current innovations in pre-university education to 
identify suitable policies and actions to be included in the implementation matrix and
the work plan referred to under subpart
1
hereof.
3.
Review of current school mapping exercises and construction plans and 
preparation pursuant to such review of school construction plans for optimum capacity
and efficiency.
4.
Organizing workshops to discuss and reach consensus among interested parties on 
the measures to reform pre-university education.
Part B:
Carrying out a program to streamline administrative procedures and to strengthen
institutional capabilities for the implementation of reforms, including the provision
of study tours to familiarize involved staff and representatives of interested parties
with necessary conditions for successful education reforms.
