RESTRICTED
FILE     COY                   Report No. P-671
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
SOCIETE DES PALMERAIES DE MBONGO ET D'ESEKA
FOR AN OIL PALM PROJECT
IN
EAST CAMEROON
February 5, 1969



R E S T R iC T E D
Reporl No. P-671
This report was prepared for use within the Bank end its cffiliated organizations.
They do noi accept responsibility tor its ac;urocy or cornpleteness. The report may
not be published nior may it be quoted as represenfinqc their views.
INTEPNATIONAL BANK FOR IECON STRUC               OINT AND DEVELOPMEINT
REPORT AND RECO:MMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO TIE
SOCIETE DES PALMERAIES DE MBONGO ET D'ESEKA
FOR AN OIL PALM PROJECT
IN
EAST CAMEROON
February 5, 1969



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMIEJT
REPORT AUND RECOET'ENDATICN CF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CN A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE SOCIETE DES PAI2ERAIES' DE MBONGO ET DtESEKA
FOR AN OIL PAU4 PROJECT IN EAST CAIEROON
1.       I submit the followning report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$ 7.9 million to
the Societe des Palmeraies de Mbongo et dtEseka (SOPAME) to assist in
financing an oil palm project in East Cameroon. The loan would be guar-
anteed by the Federal Government of Cameroon.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       The Federal Republic of Cameroon is a federation of the states
of East and West Cameroon, and was established in October 1961. East
Cameroon, a former French-administered trust territory, gained independence
in 1960 as the Republic of Cameroon.  WMest Cameroon, the former United
Kingdom trust territory of Southern Cameroons, joined the newly independent
Republic of Cameroon as a result of a plebiscite in 1961. The Federal
Republic of Cameroon became a member of the Bank in 1963 and of IDA in 1964.
3.       In 1965 the Government of Cameroon asked IDA and two French public
agencies, the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) and the Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), to join in financing part of the cost
of an oil palm development project in East Cameroon. This project was
prepared by consultants with financial assistance from the French Govern-
ment. The Bankts permanent mission in Wiest Africa provided guidance in
project preparation. The project was appraised in February and March 1968
by a Bank mission which worked closely with the French aid agencies. Sub-
sequently, in view of the shortage of IDA funds, and taking into account
the capacity of Cameroon to incur some external debt on conventional terms,
it was agreed to finance the project with a Bank loan.  Negotiations with
FAC and the Caisse Centrale, and with a delegation of the Cameroon Govern-
ment led by Mr. Joseph N. Owonop Ambassador of Cameroon, were completed in
Wlashington on October 22, 1968.
4.       The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Cameroon as of January 31, 1969:
Amount ($ millicn)
Loan or Credit                                                   Undis-
Number       Year   Borrower    Purpose      Bank     IDA    bursed
100 CM        1967   Cameroon    CAIJDEV        -      11.0      8.3
490 CM        1967   CAIDEV      CAYTEV        7.0      -        6.9
S3  Cli       1968   Cameroon    Roads          -       o.6      0.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA      7.0     11.6
Total undisbursed                   6.9      8.8     15.7



-2-
5.       In July 1964 the Executive Directors approved two Bank technical
assistance grants of US$ 200,000 and US$ 100,000 for feasibility studies
of road and agricultural projects. The Bank has under consideration a
US$ 4.9 million loan for a water supply project in Yaounde and Douala,
an education project, and a road project for which the final engineering
is being prepared under the US$ 0.55 million project preparation credit
approved in 1968.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED LOAN
6.  Borrower:        Societe des Palmeraies de Mbongo et d'Eseka (SOPAI4E)
Guarantor:       The Federal Republic of Cameroon
Amount:          US$ 7.9 million equivalent in various currencies
Purpose:         The development of about 9,000 hectares of oil palms
on twro estates, thie construction of two oil mills,
and the provision of infrastructure and ancillary
facilities.
Amortization:    In 30 years including a ten-year period of grace
through semi-annual installments beginning January 15,
1979 and ending January 15, 1999.
Interest rate:   6 1/2 per cent
Coimitment
charge:          3/4 of one per cent
Economic rate
of return:       9 - 10 per cent
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.       An appraisal report (TO-654a) entitled "East *.ameroon Qil Pala Pro-
ject - Federal Republic of Cameroon' is attached.   Agriculture is the-main
occupation of the population and accounts for about 37 percent of GDP.
In addition to subsistence food crops, Cameroon produces a well diversi-
fied range of export crops including coffee, cocoa, bananas and cotton.
However, the expansion of many crops is limited by climatic, soil and
marketing conditions, and the extent of agricultural development varies
from one region to another. Some parts of the country are at an early
stage of development, and it is important to introduce new crops which will
be well adapted to local conditions.
8.       The Societe des Palmeraies de lbongo et d'Eseka (SOPANE), a pub-
licly-owned development corporation, is set up expressly to carry out
this project, with a capital of CFAF 811 million (US$ 3.3 million). The
Government owns 48 percent of the capital, the balance being held by three
public agencies.  The General I4anager, an experienced expatriate, has been



- 3 -
chosen, and at the outset, all other key managerial positions will be held
by expatriates. A technical assistance contract w^Jill be concluded with the
French Institut de Recherche pour les Huiles et Oleagineux (IRHO). Although
the project would be set up as an indastrial estate, it would form a nucleus
for a future smallholder development which the Government has agreed to
consider and prepare.
9.       The project would consist of an 8-year planting program of oil
palms on two estates totalling 9,000 hectares, and of the construction of
two oil milJls. It would include the provision of roads, buildings and
other infrastructure. At full production, to be reached in 1981, the two
estates wzould prodace about 122,000 tons of fresh fruit bunch, and tlhe trwo
oil mills, each with a pressing capacity of 18 tons an hour, would make
possible an anmnal output of about 26,000 tons of palm oil and 6,000 tons
of kernels.
10.      The total cost of the project, including interest, is US$ 14.1
million (CFA2 3,472 milldion) and w-yould be financed as follous:
US$ million
Total     IBRD     CCCE/FAC      Cameroon
A. Land clearing                3.09      1.53       1.02          0.5
B.  Oil 11ills
(i) Eseka              1.18     1.18                       -
(ii) Mbongo             1.46      -         1.46            _
C. Plantation Development       4.52     1.92        0.90          1.70
D.  Vehicles, fertilizer and               -
other imports           1.01     1.01         -             -
E.  Contingencies and Interest  2.84      2.26       0.22          0.36
TOTAL     14.10     7.90        3.60          2.60
11.   - The FAC contribution of $1.8 million would be on a grant basis.
The $1.8 million Caisse Centrale loan would be for 21 years, with a grace
period of 9 years and an average rate of interest of 4 percent. Both
would be made to the Government, which would make the proceeds available
to SOPAIIE on the same bases as they received them. The Caisse Centrale
loan would be disbursed after the FA5 grant had been fully disbursed.
12. -    The foreign exchange cost of the project is estimated at $7.8 mil-
lion. Although the proposed Bank loan is only a little more than this,
the Bank would in fact meet som,e of the local costs since it would disburse
pai passu with the FAC and the Caisse Centrale, and would wsholly finance



the Eseka oil mill. This element of local cost financing is justified
in the light of Cameroonts needs for external capital as described in
paragraph 23 belmo, and the importance of providing adequate finance for
this high priority project.
13.      Nearly all the Cameroon cash contribution would be in the form
of capital subscriptions to SOPALE: US$ 0.69 million would be from the
Federal Government Budget, US$ 0.40 million wTould be subscribed by the
Societ6 Nationale d'Investissement, and US$ 0.64 million would be subscribed
by each of two stabilization funds. The Government has also agreed to meet
the cash deficit during the first three years after the disbursement period.
This deficit is not expected to exceed US$ 0. million. In addition to
the Cameroon cash contribution, the Government has provided the land for
the project, valued at US$ 0.8 million, and would forego revenue from
duties on most of the goods imported for the project.
1L.      The oil mill at Nbongo, which would be financed entirely out of
the French contribution, would be reserved for procurement within the
franc area, but all other goods to be procured for the project, whether
financed from the Bank loan, or with the French or Cameroon contributions,
would be submitted to international competitive bidding. In order to avoid
delays in the execution of the project, the Government started land clear-
ing in early 1968;  however, it is proposed to reimburse only those expen-
ditures made after November 1, 1968, which are not expected to exceed
US$ 50,000.
15.      The Cameroon Gcvernment attaches higll priority to this project.
The country consumes a large amcunt of oil palm products, but production
has been declining in recent years, and some 70 percent of the increased
production from the proposed project ilAl help supply the rising local
demand. The additional employment and foreign exchange receipts or savings
arising from thle project will have a substantial impact on the development
of the Cameroon economy, particularly in the southern region where the
project is located and wihere conditions are not favorable to other agri-
cultural activities.
16.      The economic rate of return on the project has been calculated at
around 9 - 10 percent, valuing production at export prices and discounting
wage costs by some 40 percent to reflect the fact that the wage rates to
be paid on the project would be substantially higher than the income which
could be derived by workers in the alternative occupation of subsistence
farming. Palm oil products sold locally command substantially higher
prices than those sold abroad, and the financial rate of return on the
investment in SOPM 3 Awill be between 8 and 13 percent, depending on the
level of domestic prices. The operation is expected to become profitable
in the late seventies, permitting in due course the distribution to the
shareholders of dividends which, remaining in the public sector, would be
available for further public investment in Cameroon.



PERT IV - LEGAL EiSTIXU1IT3 ANTD AUTHO.HITY
17.      2opies of the following documents are being distributed to the
Executive rirectors separately:
(i) the draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Societe' des
Palmeraies de 1lbongo et dtEseka;
(ii) the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federal Republic of
Cameroon and the Bank; and
(iii) the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,-
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
18.      The following features of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements
are of particular interest:
(a) Section 5.01 (b) of t'ne Loan Agreement provides that the Borrower
shall retain in certain senior management positions experienced
and qualified persons acceptable to the Bank;
(b) Section 5.07 (a) of the Loan Agreement requires the Borrower to
maintain its liquid assets at a level equivalent to three months'
cash operating expenditures;
(c) Section 5.08 (b) of the Loan Agreement requires the Borrmoer
to maintain a replanting fund for the estates at libongo and
Eseka;
(d) Section 5.10 of the Loan Agreement requires prior Bank approval
before the Borrower shall undertake any new projects or invest-
ments;
(e) Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement provides that, in the
event that the funds available to the Borrower are insufficient,
the Guarantor shall, upon the request of the Borrower, provide
the Borrower with sufficient funds to-complete the project and
to meet the requirements of Section 5.07 of the Loan Agreement;
and
(f) Section 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement requires the Guarantor
to ensure that all goods, other than petrol, diesel and lubri-
cating oils, imported by the Borrower for the project prior
to December 31, 1975, are exempted from import duties.



PART V - T-E. T7'CiIOY
19.      An Economic Report on "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of the Republic of Cameroon" (AF-79a dated August 8, 1968) was circulated
to the Executive Directors on September 4, 1968 (R 68-171); the conclusions
of this report remain valid.
20.      The Government's management of fiscal and economic affairs has
been generally good, taking into account the difficulties arising from
independence, the establishment of the Federation between tiTo disparate
regions, and the progressive termination of French preference for Cameroon
products.
21.      Since 1959, real GDP has increased by about 5 percent each year.
Agriculture, which still employs three-quarters of the worling population,
contributes 37 percent of GDP, providing all the foodstuffs i4hich can be
economically produced in Cameroon, and 70 percent of the exports.  Xanu-
facturing has progressed rapidly during-the past few years, and the tertiary
sector nowi represents 47 percent of GDP. Transportation should be improved;
roads and railways are in a poor state of repair, and more attention should
be paid to building feeder roads.
22.      Even after the termination of French budgetary support in 1965,
Cameroon continued to enioy generally stable finances except in 1967,
when credit to the private sector expanded rapidly, entailing a sudden
increase in imports.  The consequent sharp fall in foreign exchange reserves,
however, was reversed in the first months of 1968.  Good fiscal performance
is reflected by budgetary savings amounting to about $16 million in 1967/68
(10 percent of current receipts).
23.      The Second Five-Year Development Plan (July 1966 - June 1971)
outlines the Government's longer-term development strategy. GDP is expec-
ted to double by 1980, as the reisult of increasing the rate of investment
from 10 to 16 percent of GDP, divided equally between private and public
sectors. The Plan leaves investment in manufacturing to private capital
and the sectoral allocation of investment is sound. Cameroon can be expec-
ted to finance about a quarter of public investment from its own resources
during 1969 - 1971, including a substantial contribution to the cost of
completing the trans-Cameroon railwvay.  The remaining three-quarters  iLll
have to come from foreign aid, some of wrhich will have to be used for local
expenditure on high-priority projects.
2h.      Cameroon is regarded as eligible for assistance from IDA because
of low income and limited savings capacity, despite the effective efforts
which are being made by the country to mobilize domestic- resources for
economic development. On the other hand, the volume of external debt is
still moderate (the present debt service ratio is about 4 percent), and
the country may be regarded as creditworthy for some additional borrowing
on conventional terms, including the proposed loan.



PAIRT VI - COIAL1i1iC1 7JITH THE ARTICLES CF AGIM EE IT
25.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMIDATION
26.      I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
IIESOWUTION No.
Approval of Loan to Societe des Palmeraies de Mbongo et
d'Eseka (East Cameroon Oil Palm Project) in an amount
equivalent to U.S. $ 7,900,000 to be guaranteed by the
Federal Republic of Cameroon.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Societe des Palmeraies de
blongo et dtEseka to be guaranteed by the Federal Republic of Cameroon in
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million nine hundred
thousand United States dollars (U.S. $ 7,900,000),vto mature on or prior
to January 15, 1999, to bear interest at a rate of six and one-half per
cent (6 1/2%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions
as shall be substantially in accordance writh t7he terms and conditions
set fortlh in the form of Loan Agreement (East Cameroon Oil Palm Project)
betwfeen the Bank and Soci6te des Palmeraies de Mbongo et dtEselka, and the
form of Guarantee Agreement (East Cameroon Oil Palm Project) between the
Federal Republic of Cameroon and the Bank, which have been presented to
this meeting.
Robert S. IcNamara
President
TWashington, D.C.
February 5s 1969.



