RESTRICTED
RETURN     TO     jJ E   CAflv              Report No. TO-654a
REPORTS DESK a              WU1
WITHIN
0 E WEEK----
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
EAST CAMEROON OIL PALM PROJECT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
IETURN TO
RECORDS CENTER ROOM    Bl-1
Box No, t        i 3
February 3, 1969.
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1           -       247 CFAF Francs
CFAF 1 Franc            US$0.004
WEIGHTS AID MEASURES
1 km                    0.62h mi
1 ha            =        2.h7 ac
1 m ton                 2,204.6 lb
ABBREVIATIONS
SOPAME:    Societe/ des Palmeraies de M4bongo et d'Eseka
IRHO:      Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et
Oleagineux
FAC:       Fond's d'Aide et de Cooperation
SNI:       Societe Nationale d'Investissement
CORSTOM:   Office de la Recherche Scientifique et
Technique d' Outre-mer
CCCE:      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CMIDEV:    Cameroons Development Corporation
EEC:       European Economic Community
FED:       Fonds Europeen de Developpement



FFDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAIEROON
EAST CAMEROON OIL PALM PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUtMARY
I.   INTRODUCTION  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .  1
II.  BACKGROUND  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  2
A.   General  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  2
B.   The Progress of Agricultural Development  . . . . . . .  2
C.   The Oil Palm Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
III.  THE  PROJECT  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .  5
A.   Definition  ..........           ...  ....  ...     .  .  5
B.   Objectives  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  6
C.   The  P-;oject  Areas  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  6
D.   Planting Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
E.   Processing  .........1.0....          ....  .....      10
F.   Labor Housing and AmenitiES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
C.   Cost  Estimates  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
H.   Financial Arrangements  . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . 12
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGFEfENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
A.   Societe des Palmeraies de Mbongo et d'Eseka . . . . . . 14
B.   Accounts and Audit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
C. Staff ....... ..... .. . 15
D.   Technical Support and Supervision . . . . . . . . . . . 16
E.   Smallholder Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
V.   PRODUCTION -MARKETS AND ESTATE OPERATIGR       . . . . . . 17
A.   Yields and Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
B.   Marketing and Prices  .....      ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..   .  17
C.   Estate Operating Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .1...............                . .9
VII. CONCLUSIONS kND RFCOe'IIENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal
mission which visited East Cameroon in February/March 1968 composed of
Messrs. Rowe, Lankester and Wadsworth (of the Bank).



ANNEXES
1.   Population, Agricultural Production and Exports.
2.   Market Prospects for Palm Oil and Palm Kernels.
3.   Palm Produce Production, Production Plan, Domestic Markets and Prices.
4,   Societe des Palmeraies de Mbongo et d'Eseka (SOPAME).
5.   Oil Palm Research and Yields.
6.   Labor.
7.   Cost Estimates.
8.   Project Cash Flow.
9.   List of Goods and Annual Disbursement of Bank Loan.
10. Senior Staff Requirements.
11. Project Operating Accounts.
12. Project Balance Sheets.
MAPS
1.   East Cameroon Oil Palm Development Program.
2.   Mbongo Estate Site and Infrastructure.
3.   Eseka Estate Site and InfVastructure.
4.   Population Density in the Federal Republic of Cameroon.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
EAST CAMEROON OIL PALM PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Federal Government of the Cameroon has asked the Bank for a
loan to help finance two oil palm estates in E. Cameroon. Originally the
Government requested an Association credit for this purpose, but after
appraisal of the project it became evident that the delay in the replenish-
ment of IDA funds would hold up implementation of the project. Consequently
the Government asked for a Bank loan. The estates, each comprising 4,500 ha
of oil palms, would be owned, developed and operated by the Societe des
Palmeraies de Mbongo et d'Eseka (SOPAME). The project was prepared with the
assistance of consultants, principally the Institut de Recherches pour les
Huiles et Oleagineux (IRHO), and financial assistance for this work was
provided by the French Government through the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(FAC).
ii.       SOPAME would be formed early in 1969 as a development corporation,
the share capital of which would be held by the Federal Government, Societe
Nationale d'Investissement (SNI), a Government controlled investment cor-
poration, and the cocoa and coffee price stabilization funds. SOPAME would
operate in the same way as a commercial estate company.
iii.      The project would bring much needed development activity to the
forest region of the E. Cameroon and would supply an expanding domestic
market for palm oil. Some palm oil, surplus to domestic requirements, would
be exported, as would all palm kernels. At maturity, project gross revenues
wduld amdunt to an estimated CFAF 940 million (US$3.8 million equivalent)
annually, and foreign exchange earnings CFAF 340 million (US$1.4 million
equivalent). The estimated economic rate of return of the project is between
7 and 8 percent when all labor employed is costed fully.
iv.       The project is estimated to cost: $$14.1 million equivalent, in-
cluding capitalized interest on the Bank loan. The project is technically
and economically sound and is suitable for a Bank loan of US$7.9 million.
FAC has stated that it would contribute, as a grant, US$1.8 million towards
project costs; and the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique of France
US$1.8 million as a 21-year loan bearing interest at an average rate of four
percent. The balance of project costs would be met by the Government and
from self-generated funds. The borrower would be SOPAME.






FEDERAL REP'JBLIC OF CAMEROON
EAST CAMEROON OIL PALM PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In March, 1967, approval was given for a Bank loan 1/ of US$7
million to the Cameroons Development Corporation (Camdev), in West Cameroon,
and an IDA credit 1/ of US$11.0 million to the Government of the Federal
Republic of Cameroon for investment in the equity of Camdev. The project
i; part of Camdev's development program and consists of the planting or
replanting of approximately 11,500 ha of oil palm, rubber, tea and pepper,
the bringing into production of approximately 5,500 additional ha of exist-
ing immature plantings, and the provision of the necessary infrastructure,
processing facilities and other equipment.
1.02      In the absence of sufficient IDA funds the Government of the Federal
Republic of Cameroon has now applied for a Bank loan to finance part of the
costs of developing two oil palm estates in the E. Cameroon. The two estates
would total 9,000 ha of oil palms. The Government has entered into contracts
for clearing 600 ha of land at one estate, and for the supply of oil palm
seedlings to plant this area. Four hundred ha will be planted in l'68 and
200 ha in 1969. These contracts would not be financed under the proposed
loan.
1.03      The project has been prepared by consultants led by the Institut
de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oleagineux (IRHO) with financial help from
the French Government through the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC). IRHO
was responsible for assessing technical and economic feasibility and the
Office de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique Outre Mer (ORSTOM) for soils
investigations. This preparatory work was largely conducted in 1965-1966.
Government work on project identification ahd preparation started in 1963 and
was mainly the responsibility of the Federal Plan Ministry. The Bank's
Permanent Mission in W. Africa also provided assistance in project prepara-
tion.
1.04      FAC has declared its intention to meet 15% of total project costs
as a grant to the Federal Government, and the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE) of France 15% of project costs as a 21 vear loan bearing
interest at an average rate of 4 percent.
1.05      Three Bank missions have visited the Cameroon in connection
with this project: a pre-appraisal mission composed of Messrs. Picciotto,
Amselle, Brochu (FAO) and Hartley (consultant) in March 1967; a mission to
investigate and discuss with the Government the proposed land clearing
method, composed of Messrs. Darnell, Helmers, Wadsworth and La Lau (con-
sultant) in December 1967; this report is based on the findings of an ap-
praisal mission composed of Messrs. Rowe, Lankester and Wadsworth which
visited Cameroon in February-March 1968. The mission worked closely with
representatives of FAC and CCCE.
1/   President's Report No. P-530; Appraisal Report No. TO-548b.



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Cameroon has a surface area of 47,495 km    and a population
estimated at 5.5 million. GNP per capita is estimated at about US$110. The
Federation was formed in 1961 from the former French administered Territory
of the Cameroon -- East Cameroon, and the southern part of the former British
Trusteeship Territory of the Cameroon -- West Cameroon.
2.02      The Federal Government is increasingly integrating the economies
of the two Regions, each of which has its own Government and a high measure
of political autonomy. Nonetheless, differences of language, culture, levels
of education and economic development, and poor inter-regional communications
result in the Regions remaining in many respects, two distinct units.
2.03      Agriculture dominates the economies of the Federation, accounting
for about 40 percent of GDP anc 80 percent of exports.    Subsistence farming
represents about half the value of agricultural production. While agricul-
tural exports are relatively diversified, coffee and cocoa account for
nearly 50 perzent. The major non-agricultural export is aluminum. Annex 1
contains details of population, agricultural production, and exports for the
two Regions.
2.04      In W. Cameroon, commercial plantation production provides about
40 percent of the Region's exports. The Cameroons Development Corporation
(Camdev), a statutory authority of the W. Cameroon Government, produces
30 percent of all exports. In E. Cameroon, the development of commercial
plantations has been much less significant, and agricultural exports,
which account for 85 percent of total regional exports, stem predominantly
from the traditional agricultuye.
B. The Progress of Agricultural Development
2.05.     Over the past four years food production has at least kept pace
with the growth in population. The performance of the principal expert
crops has been mixed. Coffee and cocoa production have been increasing,
but this growth is unlikely to continue due to marketing problems in coffee
and prices for cocoa which in the last four to five years have failed to
stimulate new planting. Banana production for export has substantially
declined, largely due to disease. The most significant production gains
have been in cotton, where production, now close to 60,000 tons annually,
has more than doubled over the past six years.
2.06      Development programs which can be expected to significantly increase
agricultural production are as follows:
(a)  The ex.ansion of Camdev operations.   These will increase the
production of palm oil, tea, rubber and pepper.    This program
is being financed by IBRD, IDA, anc. the European Economic
Community (EEC).



- 3 -
(b) The cotton program in the north of E. Cameroon which shotild
continue to result in steady production increases.
(c) A rice production program, also in the north of E. Cameroon.
This program has started recently and incorporates ambitious
plans for irrigation and flood control. The Government intends
to seek Bank Group support for this project, when ready for
financing in about two years.
(d) A sugar estate in E. Cameroon jointly owned by Government and
private enterprise which will meet part af domestic sugar needs.
2.07      Elsewhere in the Federation production increases depend on the
normal activity of the extension services and the use of a limited supply
of agricultural credit. Significant production gains cannot be anticipated
in the foreseeable future.
C. The Oil Palm Sector
2.08      The following table shows Cameroon palm oil and kernel production
and foreign trade in these commodities in fiscal year 1966/67.
Production                Foreign Trade
Commercial   Traditional     Total    Impot    Exports
-------------------------metric tons ----------------
Palm oil
E. Cameroon              1,300        26,000      27,300       400       -
W. Cameroon             16,600        10,000      26,600      1,400    8,800
Estimated illegal
imports from Nigeria      N/A           N/A         N/A     4,80()0     N/A
Total                   17,900        36,000      53,900     6,600
Palm Kernels (Exports include palm kernel equivalent of palm kernel oil)
E. Cameroon              1,100        16,900      18,000       -      11,100
W. Cameroon              4,600         2,100       6,700        -      5,100
Total                    5,700        19,00.) 24,700           -      16  0
2.09      Commercial production includes some oil and kernels from wild
palms processed by a palm oil mill in E. Cameroon. Traditional production
is from naturallv occurring wild palms to which farmers have the right of
harvest, and oil and kernels are extracted by manual methods.   The apparent
imbalance between oil and kernal production -- about 2:1, while oil palms
vield oil and kernels in proportion about 4:1 -- is due to many wild palms



- 4 -
not being harvested for ffb 1/ and kernels being collected from the ground
after the ffb has fallen and rotted. More and more wild palms are being
treated in this way because it is increasingly difficult to find labor
prepared to climb the palms 2/ to harvest the ffb.    This, and the decline
in the total number of productive palms due to felling and clearing land
for other crop cultivation, and increasing tapping for palm wine production 3/
are resulting in a steady decline in traditional production. Eventually
traditional production of palm oil will become insignificant.
2.10      Commercial production is centered in W. Cameroon , where two estate
companies ope-ate -- Camdev and a Unilever subsidiary,,Pamol. In 1966,
the two groups accounted respectively for about 40 arld 60 percent of W.
Cameroon commercial palm oil production.
2.11      E. Cameroon has six small estates in production, four of which are
owned bv the Government. Plantings are old, many dating to pre-1914. Be-
cause the palms are old, and thius tall, the estates have problems in finding
labor for harvesting. Yields are now low, and for all practical purposes
cannot be increased. Economically, the life of these estates is very limited,
and within a few years they will be phased out of production.
2.12      Palm oil is the preferred, and almost sole edible fat available
in the greater part of Cameroon, the exception being areas in the far north
where grotmdnuts and cotton are important crops. There is no significant
source of animal fats.
2.13      Faced with falling production of traditional palm oil, population
increasing at rather more than two percent annually and no alternative source
of vegetable oils, the Government has decided to increase the commercial pro-
duction of palm oil.
2.14      In the public sector the Government has firm plans to increase
Camdev's present 9,000 ha of oLl palms to 21,000 ha by 1973. This expansion
1/   Fresh fruit bunch (ffb), the product of oil palm, is a cluster of indi-
vidual fruits. Each fruit consists of a nut, which contains the palm
kernel, surrounded by oily flesh from which palm oil is expressed.
2/   In the early years of production oil palms can be harvested from the
ground. Subsequently, they grow so tall that they must be climbed. Im-
proved palms are bred to be slow growers as far as height is concerned,
and in the 25 year life they are accorded under commercial management
do not require cltmbipg.   Since the number of wild palms is not increas-
ing their average age is increasing.   Consequently, the great bulk re-
quire climbing.
3/   This entails removal of the female infloresence.    Consequently no ffb is
formed.



is being financed in part by the Bank Group. 1/ In E. Cameroon the only
firm proposal is the 9,000 ha oil palm project which is the subject of this
report. The Government wishes to promote commercial smallholder production
but such development would be slow. Until the proposed E. Cameroon estate
project is well underway it would be limited probably to 500 ha in E. Cameroon,
for which FED financing is being sought, and a 800 ha project in W. Cameroon
associated with Camdev operations. Plans for resuscitating the small estates
in E. Cameroon probably will not materialize unless external sources of
finance can be obtained. Presently, little interest is being shown !by external
financing agencies. In short, if Government's plans materialize, Cameroon
will be producing about an additional 64,000 tons of palm oil from state-
owned and sponsored projects by the beginning of the 1980's (Annex 3).
2.15      In the private sector PAMOL has plans to double its present produc-
tion by 1980, and if implemented these would result in an additional 10.000
tons of oil by 1980. Production from existing E. Cameroon estates and from
wild palms is expected to steadily decline, and the domestic demand for palm
oil to increase.
2.16      The following table is a summary estimate of the palm oil and
palm kernel production for the period 1968 to 1985, assuming no new plant-
ings other than those listed above. Further details appear in Annex 3.
Metric Tons
1968    1971     1975    1981    1985
Oil Production
Existing Commercial and
Traditional                        53,000  50,000  39,000   27,000  26,000
New Plantings                            -     900  27,400   75,500  75,500
Total Oil Production                53,000  50,900  66,400 102,500  01,50Q
Kernel Production
Existing Commercial and
Traditional                        25,000  24,000  19,000   13,000  12,000
New Plantings                            -     250   6,600  1_,000   L8SO00
Total Kernel Production              224,250         25,600   310J00  30,00
III.  THE PROJECT
A. Definition
3.01      The project consists of:
(a)  the establishment of 9,000 ha of oil palms on two
estates of 4,500 ha each;
(b)  the creation of a state-owned corporation, Societe des
1/   Appraisal Report No. TO-54Sb.



- 6 -
Palmeraies de Mbongo et d'Eseka (SOPAME), to own and
manage the two estates at Mbongo and Eseka;
(c) the setting up of a palm oil mill on each of the estates;
and
(d)  the provision at eacb estate of necessary roads, buildings,
and other infrastructure.
B. Objectives
3.02      The major objective of the project is to increase E. Cameroon pro-
duction of oil palm products. The Government has considered achieving this
objective by smallholder production. Oil palms, however, are not treated
as a cultivated crop in the traditional agriculture, and past attempts to
establish smallholder production have failed. Before farmers would accept
oil palms as a commercial crop it would be necessary for the Government to:
(a)  demonstrate to them the benefits of growing oil palms;
(b) gain experience of growing the crop under E. Cameroon
conditions;
(c) provide ffb processing facilities for smallholder
production; and
(d) establish an organization to administer a smallholder
scheme.
3.03      A subsidiary objective of the project is to develop the experience
and conditions required for the successful promotion of smallholder oil palm
cultivation in the vicinity of the two estates. The statutes of SOPAME
empower it to promote such development and to provide ffb collection and
processing facilities for smallholders (Annex 4). A program of smallholder
development is not included in the project as it would not be practicable
until completion of the majority of the proposed estate development and until
detailed studies had been made of smallholders' needs (paragraph 4.13).
C. The Project Areas
Physical Characteristics
3.04      The Mbongo area is located 35 km southeast of Douala in the center
of Cameroon's coastal plain (Maps 1 and 2). Lying on deep sedimentary sands
the area is flat or gently undulating. Natural vegetation is tropical rain
forest and a 'heavy stand of timber covers the area. Commercially valuable
timber species have been removed in logging operations. The area's free
draining soils are physically Very suitable for oil palms, but due to heavy
leaching have a poor plant nutrient status. The efficient use of fertilizers
would be essential to obtain the vields predicted and used in paragraphi 5.01
and Annex 5.



- 7 -
3.05      Rainfall, averaging 3,470 mm annually, although not ideally dis-
tributed, is more than satisfactory for oil palms as are temperatures. Sun-
shine, however, although satisfactory for the yields projected, is the
factor limiting higher yields. The site is well provided with water for
both domestic and industrial use, in particular by the Mbongo River.
3.06      The Eseka area lies about 130 km inland from the coast, and by road
about 127 Im west southwest from the capital city of Yaounde and 220 km from
Douala.  The proposed estate site is adjacent to the town and logging center
of Eseka (Maps 1 and 3).   Topography is morp broken than that of Mbongo and
includes some areas of steep land that could not be planted to oil palms.
Tropical rain forest covers the whole area, but has been logged for marketable
species. Soils are deep but have a distinct sandy surface layer, below this
the clay content increases rapidly to about 45 percent.    Clay aggregates,
however, are very friable, and physical soil conditions are suitable for oil
palm cultivation. Chemical qualities of Eseka soils are satisfactory for
oil palms subject to the correction of a highly probable potassium deficiency.
As in the case of Mbongo, particular attention would need to be paid to fer-
tilizer programs.
3.07      Climate is favorable for oil palm cultivation.    Rainfall averages
2,252 mm annually and is satisfactorily distributed. Sunshine conditions,
although not recorded, can be expected to correspond to the average for the
forest region of the southern E. Cameroon. This ranges from 1,600 to 1,700
hours annually. The site is well provided with water, especially by the all
season Nyong River which forms its sDuthern boundary.
Communications
3.08      Mbongo is connected bv all weather road to Douala, although this
requires passage by ferry over the Dibamba River. Douala or Tiko would be
the ports of export for produce from both Mbongo and Eseka, depending on
the site or sites selected for storage facilities as a result of the market-
ing study referred to in paragraph 5.05.
3.09      About 25 km of all weather dirt road connect Eseka with the main
road between Douala and Yaounde. Both roads are in poor condition and with-
out improvement would result in high transport costs. Fortunately, Eseka lies
on the railway between Douala and Yaounde and points north. Should these
roads not be improved the railway would be used to evacuate project produce
for both export and domestic sales.
Land Tenure and Acquisition
3.10      Both project areas lie in thinly populated areas (see Map 4).
Only a small amount of land is occupied, which is on the periphery in
each case. Prior to its acquisition by the Government the land was owned
by the community and occupiers had the right of usufruct. An area of



-8-
12,500 ha 1/ has been acquired at Mbongo and 9,200 ha 2/ at Eseka. These
areas of land are now owned by the E. Cameroon Government.
3.11      In the Mbongo area all 140 families that occupied land prior to
its acquisition remain. Most of these live in, and farm around, the small
village of Mbanda and as many as possible would be employed bv SOPAME. This
area would not be developed with oil palms and most of the families would be
allowed to stay. A few farm families would have to be resettled, and spme
compensation would be required.   There is no shortage of land out7.ide the
project area and resettlement wo:ild create few problems. T1;e Government
wishes to avoid formalized compensation for land acquirel for public use,
since it foresees that this could set precedents for the future.   Thus, what-
ever compensation is required wculd be paid by the Government, not by SOPAME,
and would not be an item of project costs. There are no villages in the
9,200 ha acquired at Eseka, but about 70 families have houses and food
gardens just within its periphery. It is proposed to leave as many of these
undisturbed as possible. Preparation of a detailed planting plan will
det:ermine the need for, and timing of, resettlement. Necessary compensation
will be handled in the same way as at Mibongo. Assurances have been obtained
from the Government that it would proceed with resettlement and compensation
arrangements in accordance with the ptoposed planting program and that it
would meet the full costs of the compensation payments.
Labor and Social Services
3.12      The Mbongo area and its environs are very thinly populated,
consequently social services in the area are minimal. About 2,000 people
live in the area of influence of the proposed estate, but of these only
about 350 are men of working age, most of whom are engaged in the traditional
agriculture. Only about 40 men are below 30 years of age reflecting the ex-
tent of migration to the tQwns. In the Mbongo area this is accentuated by
the proximity of Douala. About 800 workers would eventually have to be
brought in from outside the area to develop and operate the estate. The
situation in the Eseka area is different. Eseka urban and rural areas have
a total population of about 9,300. The male population between the ages of
21 and 50 is about 1,700; of these some 600 now work for wages; theoretically
1,100 could be interested tn working on the estate.   Taking into account ex-
perience elsewhere in the Cameroon, probably between 350-400 men could be
selected and retained as permanent labor (Annex 6).   The eventual balance
of 500-550 men would have to be recruited from other parts of the E. Cameroon.
Social services are relatively well developed in Eseka, and the town and
surrounding villages contain one hospital, three dispensaries, 15 primary
schools, and two secondary schools.
1/ Decree No. 67-56/COR signed at Yaounde April 13, 1967.
2/   Decree No. 67-278/COR 3igned at Yaounde November 10, 1967.



-9-
D. Planting Program
3.13      Planting commenced in 1968 and would be completed in 1973 as shown
in the table below. All plantings would be in production by 1977.
ha of oil palms planted
Estate    1968     1969      1970     1971     1972     1973      Total
Mbongo     400       200      900    1,500    1,500        -      4,500
Eseka        -         -      600      900    1,500    1,500      4P500
Total      400       200    1,S00    2,400    3.000    1,500      9,000
3.14      The small amount of planting proposed for 1968 and 1969 is
dictated by the shortage of planting material. Established nurseries
contain sufficient seedlings for only 600 ha and new nurseries have been
prepared in 1968 to provide material for 1970 plantings.
Seeds and Nurseries
3.15      IRIIO would provide seed for the project under contract to SOPkiE.
All seed supplied would be hybrid and of a dura x pisifera cross. Approxi-
mately 50 percent of the hybrid seed would be from dura mother palms pol-
linated with pisifera pollen from palms originating on the IRHO station at
La Me in the Ivory Coast. The remainder from dura mother palms pollinated
with pollen from palms originating at the IRHO station at Sibiti in the
Congo (Brazzaville). A 50 percent mixture of the two crosses is satisfactory,
and while the Sibiti cross is expected to be marginally Iiigher yielding,
IRHO cannot supply a larger amount of this material. The yield advantage
would not lustify delaying the planting program.
Land Clearing Method
3.16      To achieve the proposed planting program mechanical methods of land
clearing would be used. Annex 6 examines the labor situation in E. Cameroon
and concludes that in view of the lack of skillelA labor available it would not
be feasible to attempt land clearing by hand methods for the proposed plant-
ing program. Additionally, project management would have little or no
experience of the E. Cameroon, and in particular of the labor problems.
3.17      On a unit area cleared basis the cost of mechanical clearing is
estimated at CFAF 75,000/ha, compared with CFAF 56,000/ha for hand clearLng.
Hand clearing thus has a significant cost advantage, but this would be lost
as, under present conditions, the clearing cannot be conducted as rapidly as
is feasible bv machines (See Annex 6). Mechanical clearing also enables
appreciable labor savings to be made in subsequent estate maintenance and
harvesting operations.



E. Processing
Palm Oil Mills
3.18      At full production, 1980 for Mbongo and 1981 for Eseka, each estate
would produce about 61,000 tons of ffb annually. Assuming a peak monthly
load of 15 percent of annual production, and 500 mill working hours monthly,
final milling capacity required would be'18 tons of ffb per hour. Required
capacity would build up as follows:
Estate         1974      1975     1976     1977     1978     1979
Mbongo             6        6       12       12       18       18
Eseka             -         6        6       12       12      18
3.19      At this time it is not possible to determine the most economic
phasing of the build-up in capacity. This depends on the type of palm oil
extraction press that would be used. Presses are available with capacities
ranging from 3 tons to 13 tons per hour, and would be obtained in appropriate
multiples. SOPAME would hire consultants to advise on the design and lo-
cation of mills and preparation of tender documents. Assurances have been
obtained from the Government that consultants satisfactory to the Bank would
be appointed.
3.20      Capacity beyond 18 tons of ffb per hour would be required at each
mill to cater for the outgrowers and smallholders who probably would be
established in a subsequent stage of the project (paragraph 3.03). The
mills would thus be designed to facilitate an. expansion to at least 24
tons per hour.
3.21      Processing facilities would be required for some production at
Mbongo in part of 1972 and for the whole of 1973 as the construction of the
mill would be deferred until 1974 to avoid underutilization of capacity at
high cost in thie early years. This production would be sold to a Government-
owned oil mill at Edea which could accommodate the quantities involved. Simi-
larly, one year's production at Eseka would be processed with hand presses or
part sold as Efb on local markets.   While sales proceeds are considerably re-
duced by these arrangements, losses are outweighed by delaying the heavy ini-
tial investment in mills by one year.
Bulk Storage
3.22      Each mill would be provided with adequate palm oil storage as
determined by the mill consultants. New bulk storage facilities for export
stocks would also be required as the existing storage tanks at Douala were
constructed in 1952 and require replacement due to poor maintenance. A new
road between Douala and Tiko, in W. Cameroon, is in course of construction,
and the required storage facilities would be sited at Douala or Tiko,
depending on the result of the marketing study referred to in paragraph 5.05.



Mill Location
3.23      A site has been selected for the Mbongo mill at the point where the
Yaounde toad crosses the Mbongo River. No site has been selected at Eseka
although siting would not create problems in view of the juxtaposition of the
river, road and railway. Siting would be determined by the mill consultants.
F. Labor Housing and Amenities
3.24      In project costs an amount of CFAF 133,000 (US$540 equivalent) is
allowed for housing each married worker who is accompanied by his family,
estimated at 25 percent of the labor force. A similar amount is allocated
for the Auarters required by four unmarried workers. The costs also include
approximately CFAF 70,000 (US$280) for the improvement and renovation of
each housing unit in the twelfth year after construction. Particular atten-
tion would be paid to the layout of labor villages and their associated health
and education facilities, and to the provision of land for food crop cultiva-
tion. The latter would be established as a block which would serve each
village and 0.2 ha would be allocated to each family. Such arrangements
would take into account possible smallholder development at a later date
(paragraph 4.13). The Government proposes to engage the services of a
consulting firm to plan and locate these villages and to provide educational
and health facilities at its expense. The French Government has indicated
its agreement in principle to finance the costs of this study. Assurances
have been obtained that the Government would employ such consultants and
provide the necessary social services.
G. Cost Estimates
3.25      Total project costs are estimated at CFAF 3,472 million (US$14.1
million). Summary cost estimates appear below and details are given in
Annex 7.
Estimated Proiect Costs 1968 throuph 1975
Foreign Exchange
Component
CFAF Million$     US$M          US$M
Plantation Development             1,866          7.6           3.3
Vehicles and Equipment                62          0.3           0.2
Houses and other Buildings           202          0.8           0.2
Oil Mills                            649          2.6           1.9
2,779         11.3           5.6
Contingencies                        177          0.7          0.3
2,956         12.0           5.9
Operating Losses                      47          0.2            -
Interest on proposed Bank Loan       469          1.9           1.9
Total Protect Costs                              14.1           7.8



- 12 -
3.26      The major items in the cost estimates are in line with costs
experienced by publicly-owned plantation estates in W. Cameroon and Ivory
Coast and, except for land clearing costs, similar to those of private estates
in W. Africa. Mill costs are based on suppliers' quotations for similar mills
for the Ivory Coast. A contingency provision of two percent in 1968 rising
by a further two percent per annum to a maximum of 10 percent in 1972 and
continuing thereafter has been provided in the estimates for all expenditures,
except land clearing costs which contain a built-in contingency of approxi-
mately seven percent. In line with the usual provisions for development
projects, the Government has confirmed that SOPAME would be granted import
duty free privileges during the development period and all estimated costs
are free of import duty.
H. Financial Arrangements
Proposed Financing
3.27      It is proposed that a Bank loan of US$7.9 million, including capi-
talized interest, should be made to SOPAME. The loan would cover 56% of the
total project costs of US$14.1 million. The estimated foreign exchange cost
of the project is US$7.8 million.
3.28      The Bank loan would bear interest at 6 1/2 percent, would be disbursed
over the seven years 1969 through 1975, and would be repaid over twenty years
from 1979 through 1998. During the grace period of ten years, interest would
be capitalized for the first eight years only.
3.29      The project would be financed jointly with FAC, CCCE and the Cameroon
Government. The Government would receive a FAC grant of CFAF 443 million
(US$1.8 million) and CCCE would make a loan of CFAF 443 million (US$1.8 million)
to the Government at an average interest rate of 4 percent per annum. The
FAC grant and the CCCE loan would be invested in SOPAME by the Government on
identicFl terms.
3.30      The CCCE loan would be repaid by equal installments over the twelve
years 1977 through 1988, and there would be a maximum grace period of nine
vears during which only interest would be payable. The French aid agencies
have agreed that the FAC grant would be fully disbursed before the CCCE funds
and the first disbursement of the CCCE loan is not expected until 1972. The
effective grace period of the CCCE loan would, therefore, be reduced to five
years.
Cash Requirements
3.31      The proposed uses and sources of funds during the development
period 1968 through 1975 are summarized below. A detailed cash flow appears
in Annex 8.



- 13 -
Uses and Sources of Funds 1968-75
Total
CFAF Millions   uS$m
Uses
Development Costs including contingencies /1                 2,956       12.00
Operating and Processing Costs including contingencies /2      293        1.20
W4orking Capital                                                 9        0.03
Total Uses                                                   3,258       13.23
Sources
Government Cash Contributions in the form of Share Capital     611        2.50
Bank Loan /3                                                 1,482        6.(0
FAC Grant                                                      443        1.80
CCCE Loan                                                      443        1.80
Self-Generated Funds                                           279        1.13
Total Sources                                                3   8       13.23
/1   Excluding operating losses and capitalized interest.
/2   Including interest payable annually to CCCE.
/3   Excluding capitalized interest.
3.32      Interest payments on the Bank loan commence in 1977 and repayments
of principal two years later. The debt service obligation, which would nct
have arisen if IDA funds had been available, creates an estimated maximum
cash deficit of CFAF 94 million (US$0.4 million) during the years 1976-1978.
The Cameroon Government has tndertaken to provide any short term funds which
mav be required during this period. From 1979 onwards the estimated annual
cash surplus would average CFAF 300 million (US$1.2 million) which would be
available for distribution, subject to working capital requirements and
provision for replanting.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.33      To ensure the maximum use of international competitive bidding
procedures, and the most convenient administrative procedure for procurement
and disbursement, the following arrangements have been agreed between FAC,
CCCE and the Bank.
(a) W4ith the exception of the first oil mill, whiclh would be
financed by FAC and CCCE, and the employment of consultants
for the planning and location of villages (paragraph 3.24)
all goods to be procured for the project will be subject to
international competitive bidding.
(b) The Bank would finance the Eseka oil mill and the cost of
importing fertilizers, vehicles, building materials and oil
palm seedlings. In addition 60% of the land clearing contr.._
would be financed and approximately 42% of )lantation devel-
opment costs.  The total foreign exchange financed



- 14 -
including capitalized loan interest, is estimated at US$5.4
million.
(c)  FAC and CCCE would finance the Mbongo oil mill, 40% of the
land clearing contract and approximately 20% of plantation
development costs. The total foreign exchange financed by
the French aid agencies is estimated at US$2.4 million.
3.34      BanP. loan disbursements would be made against full import docu-
mentation for the imported items in the list of goods including vehicles, oil
mill equipment, fertilizers a,'d seeds, and against completion certificates
for land clearing and mill insgallation.  Reimbursement of local currency ex-
penditure incurred in plantatioin development would be made on the basis of
the percentages agreed between th$ co-lenders. Annex 9 contains details of
proposed disbursements..
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Societe des Palmeraies ce Mbongo et d'Eseka
4.01      A development corporation, SOPMIE, would be established to execute
the project.
4.02      At least 20 percent of the equity of development corporations must
be held by the Federal Government. Initially the Government would own 48 per-
cent of the equitv of SOPAME and the remaining shares would be held by SNI
(12 percent) and the cocoa and coffee price stabilization funds (20 percent
each).
4.03      Except for the participation of a Government Commissioner in its
affairs SOPA'IE would function as a normal commercial entity, benefiting from
tax relief and other concessions under the Cameroon Investment Code. By law,
Government Commissioners have extensive powers of intervention in the affairs
of development corporations if, as in the case of SOPAME, the State holds
more than 50 percent of the share capital. Importantly, the Commissioner
would have the authority to:
(a) Attend all meetings of the corporation in an advisory
capacity.
(b)  Receive the minutes of all corporation meetings.
(c)  Investigate all corporation records.
(d)  Suspend action on any decisions made at corporation
meetings while referring these to the Minister of
Planning for approval.
The latter authority is very far reaching, and incompatible with the
efficient functioning of a commercially oriented estate company.   For this
reason, assurances have been received from s:he Government that the Commissioner's



- 15 -
right of delay would be restricted. The restriction would preclude the use of
the right of delay except in the case of policy decisions which might increase
the charges and obligations of the Government under the loan agreement with
the Bank.
4.04      The Board of SOPAME would consist of eleven directors, including
four senior government officials, the Director General of SNI, the Chairmen
of the Chambers of Commerce and Agriculture, who also have other local busi-
ness interests, representatives of the cocoa and coffee price stabilization
funds, and a Cameroonian Area Manager of Camdev. The Bank has approved the
nominees submitted by the Government, who provide a suitable blend of Govern-
ment and local business representatives.
4.05      The General Manager would be appointed by the Board of Directors
OTI the recommendation of the Minister of Planning and Development and would
be responsible, under the autlhority and control of the Chairman of the Board,
for the day to day management of the Company.
4.06      The formation of SOPAME is expected early in 1969.   Further detaiils
of the development corporation regulations and the statutes of SOPAME appear
in Annex 4.
B. Accounts and Audit
4.07      Full accounts would be kept by SOPAHE and the annual accounts would
be approved by the Minister of Planning and Development. Auditors would be
appointed bv the shareholders, subject to the approval of the Minister.    A
choice would be possible between the Government Auditor and a private audit-
ing company. In view of the pressure of work on the Government Auditor there
would be considerable advantages in employing a private firm. Assurances that
a private firm satisfactory to the Bank would be employed have been received
from the Government.
C. Staff
4.08      The Government intends that key positions in SOPAIE would be filled
by expatriates. There are no E. Cameroonians with experience in modern estate
practice and few in commercial oil palm cultivation. Camdev has trained a
number of qualified W. Cameroonians on its staff, but requires these for its
own expansion program. Some, however, may wish to apply for SOPAME positions
and would be considered. Nonetheless, language would be a problem and posts
of estate manager and above would have to be filled by personnel with a good
knowledge of spoken and written French. Due to this it is unlikely that
either experienced W. or E. Cameroonians could be employed initially in posts
higher than that of Assistant Estate Manager.
4.09      The Government appreciates the problems, has engaged the General
Manager designate with the approval of the Bank, and has already begun to
seek candidates for the other key posts which wotuld have to be filled in
1969.  These are:  administrative assistant/personnel manager, chlief account-
ant, and one estate manager. Full details of senior staff needed for devel-
opment of the project are given in Annex 10.



- 16 -
4.10      Recruitment is being conducted by IRIIO whicih has close contacts
with Frenich speaking oil palm estate personnel.  IRHO has acted similarly
in the Ivory Coast where it has been successful in recruiting.a large
number of well qualified personnel for the Ivorv Coast Covernment's oil
palm development program.  A number of candidates have been short-listed
but appointments would await the completion of project financing arrange-
ments. The Government would submit for approval to the Bank the names and
references of the candidates it proposes to appoint to key posts (Annex 10).
Assurances have been received from the Government that the Bank's approval
would be sought for changes in these appointhents made during thle project's
development period.
D. Technical Support and Supervision
4.11      Despite the quality of the key staff that SOPAIME would obtain, the
companv would need additional technical support. IRIIO, with its up-to-date
knowledge of the problems of oil palm cultivation in the Cameroon and W.
Africa, and its facilities for providing recommendations on, and investigat-
ing subjects relating to all aspects of oil palm cultivation, is well suited
for this role.  SOPAMIE would sign a technical assistance contract with IRHO
after the terms and conditions have been approved by the Bank. Costs of the
contract are included in the project costs.
4.12      SOPAME would benefit from additional technical supervision, partic-
ularly where this was concerned with the inter-relation of estate methods,
costs and benefits. This type of service would be provided by a Visiting
Agent, who would make bi-annual visits to each estate and subsequently sub-
mit his report to both the Board of SOPAME and to the Bank. Assurances have
been received that SOPAIIE would satisfactorily contract with an experienced
commercial oil palm estate company to provide such a service, and that this
service would be utilized throughout the project development period.
E. Smallholder Development
4.13      No plans have been made for sponsoring smallholder development in
areas surrounding the two estates. Investigation of the potentialities for,
and needs of an effective program of smallholder or outgrower development
would be carried out by consultants employed by the Government. Possible
smallholder development has three forms: outgrowers - who on their own land
would grow oil palms and have their ffh purchased and collected by SOPMME;
smallholders - who would be settled on land adjacent to the estate which
would be acquired for this purpose and who would be administered under a
formal settlement program; and smallholders - who would be selected estate
workers who would obtain credit to purchase economically sized holdings,
probably 4 ha, which would be subdivided from the existing planted acreage
of the estate. Assurances have been received from the Government that studies
would be made to determine the most appropriate form of smallholder or out-
grower development, and that reports and recommendations would be made
available to the Bank for comment.



- 17 
V. PRODUCTION. MARKETS AND ESTATE JPERATING RESULTS
A. Yields and Production
5.01      Project vield estimates are based on results from the IRHO station
at La Dibamba, which lies on the western border of the proposed Mbongo Estate.
La Dibamba yield performance, appropriately modified, is directly applicable.
The same yield projections are used for Eseka, where growing conditions are
similar to those at Mbongo, although the sunlight factor may be better and
thus result in higher yields. Annex 5 contains the project yield projections
and the bases for these. In brief, yields would increase from five tons of
ffb/ha in the fourth year after planting to 13.5 tons/ha at maturity in the
eighth year. Yields would continue at the latter level thoughout the
economic productive life of the palms, currently considered to be 25 years.
5.02      At maturity the two estates would produce about 122,000 tons of
ffb annually, yielding about 26,000 tons of palm oil and 6,000 tons of palm
kernels.
B. Marketing and Prices
5.03      Domestic consumption of palm oil in E. Cameroon is estimated at
between eight and ten kg/capita annually. The decline in production from
wild palms has resulted in total regional demand outstripping regional supply.
Consequently, palm oil prices have increased and the supply balance is one of
deficit. In contrast the situation in W. Cameroon is one of surplus.
5.04      Previously the W4. Cameroon surplus was exported; but steadily
rising E. Cameroon prices, combined with the harmonization of customs and
duties, and the improvement of trading channels between the two regions, has
resulted in the surplus being used increasingly to satisfy the E. Caneroon
shortfall. Since 1966 Camdev has been selling most of its oil locally for
transshipment to E. Cameroon, and while Pamol continues to export oil, it is
increasing its supply to the local market.
5.05      In addition to the SOPAME project both Camdev and Pamol are in-
creasing their palm oil plantings (paragraphs 2.14 and 2.15).    Thus, while
local demand will continue to expand, both E. and W. Cameroon will be in a
surplus position by 1975. Thereafter, the two Regions would expect to export
jointly the difference between production and domestic demand. Table 2,
Annex 3, shows that this would rise to about 30,000 tons of palm oil by 1980
and thereafter decline unless additional new plantings were made.    Finding
overseas markets for the volumes of oil involved, at peak less than five per-
cent of the current world trade in this coimmodity, should not be difficult,
but a rationalization of the marketing policies of Government-owned producers,
imnortantly Camdev and SOPANE, would be desirable. A degree of competition
in the local market is acceptable, but duplication of facilities such as
port storage tanks and handling installations would be uneconomical. The
Government agrees that the situation requires study, and assurances have
been received from the Government that an expert appraisal of SOPMME's mar-
keting needs would be commissioned.   This would include an evaluation of



- 18 -
futitre palm oil exports from the Federal Republic of Cameroon and the indi-
vidual responsibjility of SOPkME, Camdev and any other Government sponsored
oil palm project to fulfill these requirenments. Assurances have also been
received that the action recommended as a restilt of the study would be taken
following consultation with the Bank.
5.06      Annex 2, which was prepared by the Bank's Trade Policies and Export
Projections Division, examines market prospects for palm oil and palm kernels
on the world market. It concludes that during the life of the project the
cif Europe prices for palm oil and palm kernels will be in the range of
US$155-US$165 and US$134-US$138 per metric ton respectively. For the purposes
of this report the following prices are assumed for palm produce exports:
palm oil US$160 per metric ton cif Europe; palm kernels US$136 per metric ton
cif Europe. These prices compare with average 1968 European market prices of
US$170 for palm oil and US$155 for palm kernels.   During 1968 the price of
palm oil fell to a low of US$140 per metric ton, due to the supply of fish
oil, soybean oil and sunflower seed oil in large quantities. Whilst palm
oil prices are currently improving, the price levels experienced during 1968
and previous years are unlikely to be achieved in the foreseeable future.
5.07      The price assumptions in paragraph 5.06 form the basis for calcu-
lating the project's financial results. In addition, account is taken of
substantial domestic sales of palm oil. It is estimated that the percentage
of project produced oil sold locally would fall to a minimum of about 70 per-
cent by 1979 and thereafter increase in the absence of plantings other than
those specified in this report (paras. 2.14 and 2.15). It is assumed that
this oil would be sold ex-mill gate at a minimum price of 25 percent higher
than the anticipated export price of approximately CFAF 27,000/ton, equivalent
to about CFAF 34,000/ton. The projected price of CFAF 34,000/ton compares
with ex-mill prices currently obtained by Camdev and PAMOL of between CFAF
50,000/ton and CFAF 60,000/ton, and it is possible that higher prices would
be obtained.
5.08      SOPMIE may also benefit from European Economic Community (EEC)
price support and tariff arrangements. Current arrangements expire in May,
1969, but so far there is no indication of the probable form in which they
may be continued subsequently. No account is taken of possible beneficial
EEC arrangements in the calculations of project earnings. Annexes 2 and 3
contain further details of the prices and markets for SOPAME produced palm
oil and kernels.
C. Estate Operating Results
5.09      Projected operating accounts aad balance sheets for SOPA'E appear
in Annex 11 and 12. The oper&ting accounts show that the first profits,
before tax but after loan interest charges, would arise in 1978, the eleventh
year after the commencement of the project, when they would amount to approxi-
matelv CFAF 76 million (US$308,000). Thereafter, profits would gradually in-
crease from this level to approximately CPAF 300 million (US$1.2 million) annu-
al.ly. Cumulative losses of CFAF 260 million (US$1.1 million) would be eliminated
by 1980 and, subject to distribution of profits, substantial sums of cash
would begin to accrue from 1980 onwards. The operating accounts have been



- 19
charged with straight-line depreciation for mills, assuming *i 25 year life,
and with amortization of plantations over the same period, after allowing
a residual value of cleared land equal to 50 percent of the original land
clearing costs. Profits and cash availability from 1980 onwards would be
sufficient to enable provision to be made for replAnting. Assurances have
been received from the Government that adequate sums would be set aside for
this purpose.
5.10      The financial rate of return on the project is more than 8 per-
cent assuming domestic sales at the level of CFAF 34,000/ton. If domestic
sales were made at current prices the financial rate of return would increase
to 13 percent. The rate of return on net capital employed, which has been
calculated on the assumption that profits represented by surplus cash over
normal estimated requirements would be distributed, rises from approximately
four percent in 1977 to more than twenty percent in 1987 and thereafter.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The project would have a substantial impact on the agricultural
economy of the Cameroon. In particular, that of the forest areas of tlhe E.
Cameroon where agricultural production is close to stagnation, and where
other programs of agricultural development are in the earliest stages of
trial and planning. No other opportunity exists in the E. Cameroon for im-
plementino, within the next five years, an agricultural project with compar-
able benefits.
6.02      At maturity, the project would provide permanent employment for
about 2,000 workers, giving them living conditions and amenities at least
equivalent to those that could be obtained in urban jobs.
6.03      Assuming all palm oil and kernels were exported, annual gross
foreign exchange earnings stemming from the project at maturity could be
estimated at nearly CFAF 900 million (US$3.6 million equivalent). In practice,
however, most of the palm oil produced would be retained in the Cameroon.
If this retained oil was not produced, either an equivalent amount of fats
and oils would have to be imported, or a deficiency in fats and oils be al--
lowed to develop in diets. It is estimated that on average about 25 per-
cent of palm oil produced and all kernels would be exported; at maturity,
foreign exchange earnings from these exports would cover the forel n ex-
change element of annual project operating costs which are estimated at CFAY
150 million (US$0.6 million equivalent).
6.04      Wages paid to project employees would amount to about CFAF 138
million (US$0.56 million equivalent) annually when the project is in full
production. Much of this would be spent on locally grown foodstuffs, and
would stimulate food crop production in the vicinity of the estates and
elsewhere.
6.05      The economic rate of return on the project on the basis of
conservative estimates of yields, costs free of identifiable taxes and
price assumptions detailed in paragraph 5.06 and Annexes 2 and 3, is between
7 and 8 percent. Wages paid by SOPAME will be considerablv higher than the



- 20 -
contribution that the labor would make to the economv if it were not employed
by the Corporation.   A necessarily rough estimate of this "contribution to GDP
in alternative employment" is 60 percent of the full wage costs. If labor is
costed at 60 percent of the full cost the internal rate of return to the
economv from investment in the project is increased to between 9 and 10 per-
cent. Sales are valued at export prices for the economic rate of return,
although not less than 70 percent of SOP.AME production would be sold locally
at a higher price. The estimated financial rate of return is between 8 per-
cent and 13 percent, depending on the price obtained for palm oil sold on the
domestic market (paragraph 5.10). The minimumn estimated combined ex-mill price
for oil nnd k(ernels is equal to about CFAF 29,500 (US$119) per ton of palm
produce. At full production it would be possible to meet all operating costs,
including depreciation and amortization, and debt service with an average ex-
mill price for palm produce equal to CFAF 25,000 (US$100) per ton. Amorti-
zation and depreciation charges at full production included in the above
figure are equal to CFAF 5,060 (US$21) per ton of palm produce.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The project, as planned, is financially and economically sound and
suitable for a Bank loan of US$7.9 million including capitalized interest.
A number of assurances have been received from the Government including the
following:
(a) Resettlement of families in the project areas would proceed
in accordance with the proposed planting program and that
the full costs of compensation would be paid by the Government
(paragraph 3.11);
(b) Consultants satisfactory to the Bank would be appoin-
ted to plan and locate the villages and associated
infrastructure for project labor (paragraph 3.24);
(c) The authority of the Government Commissioner to suspend
action on decisions taken by SOPAME would be restricted
to those which might increase the Government's charges
and obligations under the loan agreement (paragraph 4.03);
(d) A study would be commissioned by the Government to establish
the prospects for and needs of oil palm smallholders or out-
growers' program, the results of which would be submitted
to the Bank for consideration (paragraph 4.13);
(e) An expert appraisal of SOPAME's marketing requirements would
be commissioned, and that action would be taken in accordance
with the resulting recommencations after consultation with the
Bank (paragraph 5.05):
February 3, 1969



rALiT JACLROON 0OI PALM PROJECT
POPUT-ATION, AGRICULTURtAL PRODUCTION. AND EXPRTS
1960                         1963                          196h                            1965
East     West      Total      East     West      Total     East      West     Total       East      West      Total
POPULATION (000)                                                                                                               4,070      1,157     5,227
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND EXPORTS
(000 tons )
Millet, Sorghum
Production                      35h       _        35h       377        -       377        1        _        h8h        N.A.       N.A.      N.A.
Maize
Production                       97      N.A.      N.A.      216        50      266        2hO       12      282        N.A.       N,.A.     N.A.
Cassava
Production                      581      N.A.      N.A.      h17        2?.-     h1         h6        29      h75        N.A.       N.A.       N.A.
Plantains
Production                      513      N.A.      N.A.      696       159      855        965      159     1,121       N.A.       N.A.       N.A.
Bananas
Production                      N.A.      93.5     N.A.       66.2      67.7    133.9       76.h      51.3    127.7       N.A.      N.A.       N.A.
Exports                          36.7     86.3     123.0      55.3      h7.6    102.9       61.1     51.5    115.6        68.8      50.2      119.0
Coffee
Production                       37.2      3.0      hO.2      h3.8       8.8     52.6       h7.0      5.1      52.h        62.1       6.7       68.8
lEports                          30.5      2.7      33.2      Lo.1       7.2     h7.3       1h.7      5.1     50.1       13.0       5.6       18.6
Cocoa
Production                       66.9      7.h      7h.3      85.2       5.3      90.5      75.1,     7.9      83.3        82.2       7.7       89.7
Exports                          58.9      6.1      65.o      71.2      h17       75.9      53.9      5.1      59.0        69.2       8.6       77.8
Cotton Lint
Production                      N.A.       -       N.A.       15.0      -        15.0       16.h     -         16.h       N.A.       -         N.A.
Exports                          10.0      -        10.0      I1.9      -        1t.9       17.0      -        17.0        16.3      -          16.3
Groundnuts
Production                      N.A.       -       N.A.       7h.9      -         7h.9      78.3      -        78.3       N.A.       -         N.A.
E xports                          3.6      -         3.6      17.7      -        17.7       18.1      -        18.1        10.6      -          10.6
Palm Kernels
Production                      N.A.     N.A.      N.A.       22.0       5.6      37.8     N.A.      N.A.     N.A.        N.A.      N.A.       N.A.
Exports                          15.3      2.2      17.5      lh.6       h.6     19.2       13.8       6.1     19.9        15.5       6.0       21.5
Palm Oil
Production                      N.A.     N.A.      N.A.       27.0      22.0      19.0     N.A.      N.A.     N.A.        N.A.      N.A.       N.A.
Exports                           1.1      ho.3      5.       -           .8      h.8       -          8.7      8.7         0.7      12.9       13.6
Rubber
Production                        h.3      3.3       7.6       h.3       5.5      9.8        h.6       h.7      9.3         h.8       6.b       11.2
Exports                           3.6      2.9       6.5       h.2       3.3      7.5        3.7       5.5      9.2         h.0       6.5       10.5
PRINCIPAL EXPORTS (Million  CFA Francs)
salm Oil and Kernels             60h       271       875       hhh       3hh      788        h9        6)6    1,035         630       96h      1,59h
Cocoa                           8,106      675     8,781     8,028       9h2     8,970     6,293       593    6,886       6,501       812      7,313
Coffee                          h,610      h08     5,018     5,880       611     6,521     8,303     1,ol6    9,3h9       6,653     1,189      7,812
Bananas                           587     1,838    2,125       887       771     1,658       979       909    1,888       1,102        788     1,890
Timber                          1,127      980     2,107     1,751       325     2.076     2,063       150     2,513      2,1hl        288     2,129
Rubber                            63h      565     1,179        517      9h8    1,h65       120       686    1,106         137      783      1,220
Cotton                          1,017       -     1,Oh 7    2,013        -      2,013     2,291        -     2,291       2,238         -      2,238
Aluminum                        h,hC2        -     h,hO2      5,171       -      5,1171    5,116        -     5,116       1,933         -      h,933
IOTAL EXPORTS (Million CFA Francs)  23,951    5,683    29,631   29,117     h,161    33,278    30,037     1L1,86  31,523     29,276     5,o86     31,362
SOURCES: Bulletin of General Statistics, Quarterly Economic Eulletin, Agricultural Statistics (F. Caneroon Directorate of Agriculture), Secon;l Five Year Plan,
CDC Reports and Customs Statistics.
April 30, 1963






ANNEX 2
Page 1
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
EAST CAMEROON OIL PALM PROJECT
MARKET PROSPECTS FOR PALM OIL AND PALM KERNELS
1.        A paper on the fats and oils situation is currently under pre-
paration within the Bank, and will deal in detail, inter alia, with
the market prospects for palm oil and palm kernels. Progress on the
paper has reached the stage where it is possible to draw some con-
clusions about palm oil and palm kernels, which are set out below;
while these conclusions must be considered tentative pending the publi-
cation of the more general paper, no major changes are anticipated.
Palm Oil
2.        Trends in supply and demand for individual fats and oils are
far more difficult to judge than those for the total market, particularly
since most of the major oil products are produced either as joint
products or by-products. Thus, as in the case for soybeans, the pro-
duction of specific oils may be determined, not only be trends in the
oils and fats market, but also by the demand for the joint or related
products. Another feature which also has to be considered in review-
ing the market for a particular oil product is the amount of substi-
tution possible between different fats and oils. W4ithin a broad range,
on technical considerations, one oil can be substituted for another.
Currently, the bulk of palm oil is used in the food industry. Here
it meets its strongest competition from soybean, groundnut and sun-
flower seed oils. Fish oils are also used for edible purposes, but
they are at a disadvantage compared with palm oil, owing to the high
processing costs involved in making them usable for this purpose.
3.        Usually, the associated product of the marine and vegetable
oils is a protein-rich cake or meal. The oil palm, however, compared
with some of its competitors, produces a very low proportion of protein
cake to oil, and the cake is the by-product of palm kernel oil, rather
than palm oil. The overall ratio of palm and palm kernel oils to cake
is about 9:1. In comparison, the soybean produces oil to meal in the
ratio of 1:4 in terms of weight.
4.        Palm oil is produced almost entirely in four developing
countries: Nigeria, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Indonesia and
Malaysia. Table 1 indicates the production situation in these and
other countries in recent years. Compared with other major fats and
oils (Table 2) the growth rate for world palm oil production has been
low, up to recent years amounting to only 1.3% per annum. The only
really significant expansion took place in Malaysia. However, in a
number of countries, particularly Malaysia, a considerable further



AiNNEX 2
Page 2
expansion in production is planned for the future. Some of these plans
have already been put into operation. If these developments go accord-
ing to schedule, total world production will amount to approximately
2.5 million tons between 1975 and 1980. This would represent a growth
rate of slightly more than 5% between 1965-67 and 1980, compared with
a yearly rate of increase of 1.3% between 1954-56 and 1965-67. The
share of palm oil production on total fats and oils production would
increase to approximately 5%, compared with 3% in 1965-67.
5.         Many of the developments are export-oriented and a consider-
able share of the additional supplies will have to be absorbed by the
international market.  Oil palm exports increased very slowly during
the last decade, largely owing to the slow growth in production rather
than marketing difficulties.  Actually, in the period from 1954-56 to
1965-67, palm oil exports declined slightly (Table 3). Tt is estimated
that by 1575 palm oil exports will amount to approximately 1.2 million
tons, corrpared wiith 550,000 tons in 1965-67. Consequently, the share
of palm oil exports on total trade will probably increase to 9% in
1975, compared with 5.h% in the earlier period.
6.         The palm oil economy thus faces two major problems in the
future. Firstly, it will have to face declining world market prices,
a phenomenon that is shared by nearly all major fats and oils.  Secondly,
it will have to increase its share as an ingredient in the total usage
of fats and oils.  Considering the fact that palm oil does not have all
the quality characterisiics enjoyed by some of the other oils (e.g.
coconut oil), this could only be achieved through price declines larger
than those expected for sorme other oils.
7.         It is in food uses where palm oil wiill have to increase its
market share. In the past, this was only possible to a certain degree,
mainly because of limitation in availabilities. Among other factorea
this apparently prevented processors from undertaking the necessary
research into the technical and economic difficulties which would have
to be overcome if palm oil is to be incorporated as a major ingredient
in food products. One major difficulty, particularly at the relatively
high palm oil prices of the past, appears to have been the disposal at
remunerative prices of the inedible portion resulting from palm oil
processing, which would make large-scale processing feasible.
8.         The Chart (IBIRD-4199) indicates that palm oil prices have
generally followed the trend of all fats and oils prices, declining
to a low level in 1962 and experiencing a sharp fall after the high
1965 prices. Of particular importance is the narrowiing of the large
price difference between soybean oil and palm oil which prevailed in
the 1950s.  Since 1963, prices for bcth products have moved closely
together, which indicates that their future fortunes wrill also be
tightly knit.



ANTEX 2
T e3
9.        In the second half of 1968, palm oil prices dropped sharply to
approximately $1LO per ton, compared with $222 per ton in 1967.    This
steep decline was caused by large shipments of soybeans and soybean oil
and unusually large exports of sunflower seed and fish oil.    It is
believed that this is a short-term situation and that palmoil prices will
recover to a higher level.   In view of the large anticipated exports and
the technical difficulties mentioned previously, however, it is unlikely
that they will reach the 1967 levels.   Future prices have been estimated
to fall by the mid-1970's into a price range between $155-165 per m ton
c.i.f. Europe.
10.       These projections have to be seen in the light of the uncertain-
ties which surround any price forecast and of fats and oils in particular.
For example, if soybean exports under P.L. 480 are reduced or cease
altogether without compensating changes in U.S. production policy, the
above price forecast may prove to be optimistic.    On the other hand, if
only part of the large requirements that would be needed to meet the needs
of fat deficit countries could be turned into effective demand, the fore-
cast may be pessimistic.
Palm Kernels
11.       The fruits of the oil palm contain two separate sources of oil:
the fleshy and fibrous exocarp (pulp) from which palm oil is obtained and
a nut kernel in a hard shell from which palm kernel is extracted.    The
pulp of the fruits deteriorates rapidly after harvest and extraction has
to be carried out in producing areas.   Palm kernels, in contrast,
deteriorate very slowly.   Also, their processing into oils is a relatively
more complex operation.   Extraction is, therefore, usually performed in
large crushing mills, mainly in the importing industrialized countries.
Only in the Democratic Republic of the Congo have palm kernels been
crushed on a large scale and the country's exports consist almost entirely
of oil, rather than kernels.
12.       Wild palm fruits have a low proportion of pulp and a high pro-
portion of kernels.   In plantations now in the process of development,
however, the ratio of pulp to kernel is expected to increase.    Thus, the
future expansion in palm oil output will not be matched by a commensurate
increase in palm kernel oil output.
13.       Palm kernel oil, unlike palm oil, is a lauric oil and as such
closely resembles coconut oil.   These types of oils are regarded in many
countries as a desirable ingredient of margarine and shortening, and for
use in confectionary and bakery products.    Lauric oils also possess



.Al nlEX 2
rage 4
special qualities which make them an essential constituent up to a certain
minimum in soap z_nufactiro; they also have a wide variety of other
industrial uses, such as in the manufacture of synthetic detergents.
lI.       All these factors account for a more inelastic demand
than for most other fats and oils.   This became very apparent in 1967-68
when prices of nearly all major fats and oils decreased.    Prices of lauric
oils, including palm kernel oil, remained high, mostly because of short
supplies, but also because of the limited degreeof substitutability.
Presently, there are some indications that new industrial processes will
make it possible to produce synthetically the special component of the
lauric acid oils which are the cause of the inelastic demand.    This, of
course, would limit the special role these oils play in the market.    How-
ever, so far no definite information is available which indicates that
industrial manufacture of lauric oils will be undertaken on a large scale.
15.       The price, production and trade situation for palm kernels and
palm kernel oil are indicated in the Chart and Table L.    It is assumed
that palm kernel oil, in line with other fats and oils, will follow a
downward trend in the future.   Since palm kernel oil will not increase in
output at the same rate as palm oil, however, it is unlikely that its price
will decline as much as has been projected for palm oil.    It is estimated
that a price range of $13b-138 per m ton for palm kernels will prevail in
the mid-1970's.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
Table 1: WORLD PRODUCTION, EXPORTS AND IMPORTS OF PAIM OIL
BY MAJOR PRODUCING, EXPORTING AND IMPORTING COUNTRIES
AVERAGE 1955-59, ANNUALLY 1963-67
(thousand metric tons)
Average
1955-59   1963   1964   1965    1966   1967 1/
Production
Nigeria                    200       151    150    167    132     33
Congo, Dem. Rep.           224       224    209    162    168    2O0 _
Indonesia                  155       148    160    163    185 2/ 163 2/
Malaysia                    64       130    128    155    194    231
Others 2/                    49       54     61     62     57     57
World Total             692       707    708    709    736    684
Exports
Nigeria                    180       128    136    152    146     17
Congo, Dem. Rep.           160       143    124     79     85    116
Indonesia                  121       110    133    126    153    125
Malaysia                     62 3/   115    125    143    184    188
Others                       33       48     48     48     38     38
World Total              556      544    566    548    606    484
Retained Imports
EEC                         226      247    279    249    267    252
United Kingdom              198      114    116    117    150     98
Unted States                13       11      3      3     34     29
Japan                        20       17     18     16     20     22
Iraq                          4       28     29     50     36     47
Others                      92       118    107     76     91     72
World Total             553       535    552    511    598    520
v/ Preliminary.
2/ Unofficial estimates based on import returns.
3/ Excluding trade with Singapore.
Source: FAO
February 3, 1969



ANNEX 2
Table 2
Table 2: WORLD PRODUCTION BY TYPE OF OIL OR FAT
AVERAGE 1954-56 AND 1965-67, O:[L EQUIVALENT
Average l954-56      Average 1265-67
Output as            Output as
Output    Percent    Output    Percent    Percent Change
(1,000   of' Total   (1,000  of Total     P.A. in Output
Type of Oil           m. tons)   OItput   in. tons)  Output    1954-56 to 1965-67
Edible soft oils                   1 40.3  17421       4                4.4
Cottonseed            1,906       7.1     2,507       6.6
Groundnut             2,084       7.7     3,037       8.0             3.5
Soybean               2,451      9.1      5,200      13.7             7.1
Sunflower             1,118       4.1     2,860       7.5             8.9
Olive                 1,044       3.9     1,238       3.3             1.5
Sesame                  541      2.0        582       1.5             0.7
Rapeseed              1,601       5.9     1,562       4.1          - 0.2
Others 1/               14       0.5       435       1.1            10.6
Industrial soft oils    1 521       5.6     1 868        4.9            1.9
Linseed                 953       3.5     l,o 2       2.7             0.8
Castor bean             213       0.8       307       0.8             3.4
Tung                    103       0.4       112       0.3             o.8
Others                  250       0.9        407      1.1             4.5
Hard oils               3179       12.9      3 922     10.3             1.1
Coconut               2,014       7.2                 5.9             1.0
Palm kernel             422       1.6        h55      1.2             0.7
Palm oil              1,001       3.7      1,157      3.0             1.3
Babassu                  42       0.2         58      0.2             3.0
Animal fats            10 298      38.0     13,638     35.8             2.6
Butter                383        l4        5,063     13.3             2.14
Lard                  3,549      13.1      4,163     10.9             1.5
Tallow                2,856      10.5      4,412     11.6             4.0
Marine oils               857       3.2      2,186      3.2             3.0
Whale                   484                  287T  8   0.8           -
Fish                    373       1.4        898      2.4             8.3
World Total        27,0o44    100.0     38,035     100.0            3.2
1/ Mainly safflower and maize oil.s.
Source: Based on Unilever statistics.



ANNEX 2
Table 3
Table 3:  WORLD EXPORTS OF FATS AND OILS
BY GROUPS AND TYPE OF OIL,
AVERAGE 1954-56 AND 1965-67, OIL EQUIVALENT
Average 1954-56        Average 1965-b7
Exports as             Exports as  Percent Change
Exports   Percent      Exports   Percent      Per Annum
(1,000    of Total     (1,000    of Total     in Exports
Groups & Type of Oil   m. tons)   Exports    a. tons)   Exmorts   1954-56 to 1965-67
Soft oils                           37.4        08150.0                    6.h
Edible                 ,84                   219       kl.5             7.9
Cottonseed            367 1/     5.3        263 1/     2.6          -  3.0
Groundnut             754       11.0      1,029       10.1             2.9
Soybeans              506 1/     7.4      1,85 1/     18.1            12.5
Sunflower              26        0.4        !;09       5.0            31.0
Olive                 101        1.5        158        1.6             4.2
Sesame                 40        o.6         74        0.7             5.8
Rapeseed               47        0.7        3h1        3.k            19.7
Industrial              623        9.0        674        6.6             0.7
Linseed               470        6.8        4h6        4.4          -  0.5
Castor bean          108         1.6        183        1.8             4.9
Tung                  45         0.6         45         0.4             -
Others, n.e.s.          106        1.5        188 ./     1.9             3.5
Hard oils               2,164       31.4      2 183        21.4            0.1
Coconut            1,209        17.1,281              12.5             0.5
Palm kernel           394        5.7        345         3.4         -  1.2
Palm oil              558        8.1        550        5.           -  0.1
Babassu                 3         -           7        0.1             8.0
Total vegetable         4,734       68.8      7,264        71.4            4.0
Animal fats             1,473       21.4      2,093        20.6            3.3
Butter               -0         6.2        52g 1/      5.2            1.9
Lard                  320        4.7        288         2.8         -  1.0
Tallow                723       10.5      1,276        12.6            5.3
Marine oils               674        9.8        821         8.0            1.8
Whale                 481        7.0        288         2.8         -   .7
Fish                  190        2.8        533         5.2            9.8
Total animal            2,147       31.2      2,914        28.6            2.8
World Total       6,881      100.0     10,178      100.0             3.6
1/ Includes U.S. donations.
2/ Of which 63,000 tons safflower oil.
Source: Based on Unilever statistics.



ANNEX 2
Table l
Table 4: WORLD PRODUCTION, EXPORTS AND IMPORTS OF PALM KERNEL
AND PALM KERNEL OIL BY MAJOR PRODUCING, EXPORTING AND IMPORTING
COUNTRIES, AVERAGE 1955-59, ANNUALLY 1963-66
(thousand metric tons)
Average
1L955-59      1963        1964      1965     1966
Production 1/
Nigeria                       442         420        407       450       422
Sierra Leone                   57          5L         5h        51        56
Congo, Dem. Rep.              142          91        122        97       102
Dahomey                        53          51         55        66        49
Indonesia                      38          33         35        36        36
Malaysia                       17          31         31         35       42
Others                        157         159        144       158       152
World Total                 906         839        848        893      859
Palm Kernel Exports
Nigeria                       439         40h        400        420      h00
Sierra Leone                   57          54         53         50       56
Congo, Dem. Rep.               41           3          1
Dahomey                        50          51         55         25        6
Indonesia                      38          31         32         30       32
Malaysia                       16          16         12         13       23
Others                        129         120        109        117      155
'World Total                770         679        662        655      622
Palm Kernel Oil Exports
Congo, Dem. Rep.               50          32          4         34       32
Others                          2          10          5         22       28
World Total                  52          42         49         56       60
Retained Imports of Palm Kernel
EEC                           371         356        381        336      331
United KingdoQ                301         211        194        207      168
Japan                          28          26         25         22       23
Others                         57          71         77         80        6
World Total                 757         664        677        645      528
Retained Imports of Palm Kernel Oil
EEC                            13           7         -           3       32
United States                  23          38         39         38       50
Others                        1            8          8        10         7
World Total                  50          53         47        51        89
1/ Commercial Production.
Source: FAO
February 3, 1969



INDEX OF PRICES FOR EDIBLE AND SOAP OILS, AND IMPORT PRICES
FOR PALM, SOYBEAN, COCONUT OILS AND PALM KERNELS
(U.S. DOLLARS PER LONG TON)
500          1             1       1      1      1              1      1      1      1              f    .   I             500
AVERAGES
CEYLON COCONUT OIL, WHITE, 1% BULK (c.i.f EUROPE)
U.S. SOYBEAN OIL (c.i.f. EUROPE)   .                                                                        -     400
400                                                                                                                        40i-04
300                                                                                                                        300
MALAYSIAN PALM OIL 5 %                                 _ 
200                                                                                                                        200
,                                       NIGERIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N PALM KERNE LS (c i.f. EUROPE)
I oo                                                                                                                       100
FAO PRICE INDEX OF EDIBLE AND SOAP OILS AND FATS (EXCL. BUTTER)
(1952-54=I00)
0                                                                   I      I                                            0
'54    '55    '56     '57    '58    '59    '60     '61    '62    '63    '64     '65    '66     '67   '68     '69
(JAN-
OCT )
IBRD - 4199






ANNEX 3
EAST CAMEROON OIL PALM PROJECT
PAL-M PRODUCE PRODUCTION, PRODUCTION PLANS, DOMESTIC MARKETS AND PRICES
A. General
1.        In recent years declining palm oil production accompanied by an
increasing population and rising incomes have resulted in total demand for
palm oil outstripping production in East Cameroon. Consequently, a
situation of surplus, which in the 1930.s permitted the export of 7-8,000
tons annually from the Region, has given way to one of deficit.
2.        By contrast, West Cameroon has a substantial surplus of palm oil.
While this was previously exported to Europe increasing amounts are now
sold to East Cameroon. Thus, since 1966, Camdev has sold most of its oil
in this way, and Pamol is increasing its sales to the local market.
3.        At present demand and production of palm oil in the Federation
are in approximate balance. Nonetheless the Federation continues to export
palm oil: this is because palm oil is illegally entering the country from
Eastern Nigeria where low prices fixed by Government make sales on the higl
priced Cameroon market financially rewarding. (See para. 2.08 of the
report.)
4.        The Government, however, has the ability to prevent these imports
and would do so in the event of Cameroon producers being adversely affected..
5.        Palm kernel production is largely exported, either as kernels or
as palm kernel oil. Kernel crushing capacity is not large, and kernel oil
exports are incidental to the operations of a soap manufacturing company
which produces kernel oil for its own use.
B. Consumption Trends
6.        No major change is expected in domestic palm kernel consumption.
The consumption of manufactured soap, as against traditionally made soap,
will increase and reqtuire a larger domestic consumption uf kernels.
Expected increases, however, have little significance for the project since
kernels will continue to be in over-supply and their price geared to that
of the world market.
7.        Palm oil is consumed in the Cameroon as both refined and unrefined
oil. The bulk of consumption is as unrefined oil used as a component of stews
and for frying. Annual per capita consumption for nutritional purposes is
currently estimated at 9 kg, and total consumption including a small amount
of oil used industrially, at 51,700 tons.
8.        Future consumption levels will depend principally on both the
growth in population and national income.   Minimum estimates are that
population will increase by 2 percent annually, and national income b'7



ANNEX 3
Page 2
2.6 percent until 1975 and 3.3 percent thereafter. A further factor is
the income elasticity of demand. Studies by the Food and Agriculture
Organization in Southern Nigeria indicate that this would be at least 0.6.
On these assumptions domestic consumption should increase to about 63,200
tons in 1975, 72,600 tons in 1980 and 83,300 tons in 1985 (Table 1). Two
factors have been omitted in making these projections, since they roughly
offset each other: (a) the calculation would not be valid for the northern
part of the country, where the preference for groundnut and other oils will
doubtless continue, and (b) the domestic price of palm oil is estimated to
fall by about 30 percent by 1980 (see below), which would stimulate consump-
tion.
C. Production Trends
9.        Production of palm oil, but not of kernels, from wild palms and
existing East Canieroon estates is expected to decline markedly in the future,
at an average rate of about 3.5 percent per annum. On the other hand,
Camdev and Pamol production will increase significantly and the proposed
SOPAIE estates would be in full production by 1977.   Table 2 shows overall
production for both Regions for the period 1968 through 1985; and indicates
that by 1980 production would rise to 102,700 tons as against 53,000 tons
in 1968.
D. Production/Consumption Balance
10.       Table 2 also shows the estimated production/consumption balance
for the period 1968 through 1985, and probable surpluses which would be
exported. Surpluses would develop as follows to 1985:
Balance of Production and Consumption of Palm Oil
Tons                 1970      1975       1980      1985
Surplus
(Deficit)            (4,700)   3,200     30,100     18,200
% of total
production              9%       5%        29%       18%
11.       Until 1.974 the Federation would probably be a net importer of palm
oil, and these imports would be largely supplied illegally from Nigeria.
Subsequent to 1974 an increasing surplus would develop until 1979 after which
consumption would continue to increase but production remain static - unless
new and as yet unplanned plantings were made in the interim period. Under
these conditions, and assuming that SOPAME would have an equitable share of
the domestic market for palm oil, the Society could be expected to sell a
minimum of 70 percent of its production for domestic consumption.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
E. Domestic Markets and Prices
12.       The mill-gate price for local sales in the Federation in 1967 was
about CFAF 60,000/ton.   This was about 25 percent higher than the mill-gate
price for export oil in that year. The difference was due primarily to a
55 percent ad valorem tariff on official im ports and to a quantitative re-
striction on non-Franc zone producers. With the emergence of substantial
surpluses after 1975, domestic and export prices would tend to equalize. In
view of anticipated export prices appreciably lower than those obtained in
1967 (see Annex 2), however, the Government has stated that it has no ob-
jection to producers maintaining a higher domestic price. Thus in revenue
projections it is assumed that the mill-gate price for local sales w41l fall
from 1967 level of CFAF 60,000/ton to a minimum of CFAF 34,000/ton by 1975.
At this level it will compare with a projected mill-gate price of CFAF
27,000/ton for export sales.
F. Price Projections Used in Estimates of Project Benefits
Economic Benefits
13.       For the calculation of the economic rate of return, all palmi oil
and kernel production is valued at projected fob Douala prices fo- export
oil and kernels, less costs of transshipment from mill-gate to fob. No
account is taken of possible EEC compensatorv arrangements. The bases for
the fob prices are the projections of cif prices given in Annex 2.    Tahle 3
contains details of the calculations of the differentials between cif, fob
and mill-gate prices.
Financial Benefits
14.       In the financial projections, a weighted average mill-gate Drice
for palm oil has been used which takes into account the higher prices tl-hat
would be obtained from local sales,,and tax liabilities incurred, see
Table 3.   It is assumed that: (1) the mill-gate price for local sales remains
25% above the mill-gate price (including taxes) for exports, (2) the pro-
portion of total production in Cameroon exported increases to 30% in 1979,
as indicated in Table 2, and continues at this level, and (3) producers
export in proportion to their contribution to total production. Palm
kernel revenues are calculated at mill-gate prices based on projected fob
Douala prices and including taxes incurred also.






EAST CAMEMION OIL PALM PPOJECr
PROJEC7ION OF DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION OF PAIN OIL (1967-85)
1967    1968     1969    1970    197i    1972     1973    1971    1975     1976    1977     1978    1979    1990     1981    1982    1983    198b     1995
Po',lation 'tho,'aflda)                    5,0lo   5,519    5,629   5,71U1  5,856   5,973    6,093   6,21L   6,339   6,1,66   6,595   6,777   6,861    7,000   7,138    7,729   7,1,27  7,S75    7,727
'-er Cal Lt ,n-ueption (Kg)                 9.0    9.03    9.06     9.10    9.13    9.16    9.20     9.23    9.26    9.33     9.0     9.A     9.55     9.63    9.70    9.77     9.95    9.92   10.00
Tc.>I Pri-tn -.tns.ptlon (0C00 tons)       18.7    1.9.8   51.0     52.2    53.5    51h.7    56.1    57.L    58.7    60.3     62.0    63.8    65.S     67.b    69.2     n.1     73.2    75.i     77.3
Total induttrial Consu-ption ( 000, tone)   3.0     3.1     3.3      3.5     3.7     3.9     b .1  .1 1       1.5    1.6      b.5     b.9     5.1      5.2     5 b      5.-     5.7     5.8      6.0
Total Toncuoption  '000, tons)             51.7    52,9    51.3     55.7    57.2    58.6    60.2     61.7    63.2    6b.9     66.8    68.7    70.6     72.6    7l.6    76.6     78.9    80.9     83.3
^A--asptione.
-.) Populat'on t rcwth: t.o percent psr annmn ooepound rste.
(b) inoos . lagticity of demand: 0.6 (FAO estiate)
.e) Co.sersativo  ational inoone growth projectiona bhae bsen seed, 1965-75. 2.6 percent annusl growth;
l?75-85: 3.3 pernent annual gro.th.
F:oruary 3, 1!69



EAST CAMEROON OIL PALM PROJECT
OVERALL P.RODUCTION OUTLOOK - EAST AND WEST CAM5ROON
1967   1968   1969   1970  1971   1972   1973    197b    1975   1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1985
1.   PHASING OF PLANTATION PROGRAM (ha)
East Cameroon                                                                                                                              TOTAL
Mbongo                                    htoO   200    900 1,500 1,500                                                                  I,500
Eseka                                                   600    900 1,500  1,500                                                          h,500
Digombi                                           50    100    150    200                                                                  500
West Cameroon
CAMDEV                             825  2,250  2,765  2,475  2,321  1,630                                                               12,266
PAMOL                              640    7b5    7b5    790    700    b30                                                                I,,o50
Small holder scheme                                     200    200    200   200                                                            800
TOTAL                1,465  3,395  3,760  5,o65  5,771 5,b60 1,700                                                         26,616
2.   TOTAL PALM OIL
Production from new plantings                                    879 3,531   8,22h  16,195  27,360  ho,625  53,051  63,718  71,169  7L,717  75,A56
(tons)
3.   TOTAL PALM OIL
Production from existing          53,900 53,000 52,000 51,000 50,000 k9,o00 h6,ooo  L3,o00  39,000  35,000  32,000  30,000  29,000  28,000  26,000
plantings (tons)
b.   TOTAL PALM OIL PRODUCTION
(tons)                            53,900 53,ooo 52,000 51,000 50,879 52,531 5L,22b  59,195  66,360  75,625  85,051  93,718 100,169 102,717 10,1A5W
5.   TOTAL DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION        51,700 52,900 54,300 55,700 57,200 58,600 60,200  61,700  63,200  6b,9oo  66,0oo  68,700  70,600  72,600  83,300
6.   SURPLUS (Deficit)!/                2,200    100 (2,300)(4,700)(6,300)(6,100)(6,000) (2,500) 3,200  10,700  18,300  25,000  29,600  30,100 18,200
Percent of total production         b%     2%     b%     9%     32%    12%   11%     b%      5%      1b%     22%     26%    30%     29%     18%
7.   ASSUMPTIONSs
(a) The planting program is based on the Government's oil palm development program5 but takes into account only projects for which finance is, or is
likely to be, forthcoming.
(b) Average yield of 2.8 tons per hectare is assumed at maturity.
1/ Figures rounded.
February 3, 1969



ANN A 
Table
EAST CAMEROON OIL PALM PROJECT
Projected Prices for Project Output from 1972 Onwards
A. Palm Oil CIF Europe/Ton               US$160             B.  Pain Ksrnelp. CIF Muirope/Ton      US$136
CFAF 39,520                                               CFAF 33,592
Deductions FOB to CIF -                                     Deductions FOB to CIF -
Selling Commission(l%)                  395                 Selling Commission(l%)                336
Maritime Freight                      6,700                 Maritime Freight                    3,700
Insurance (0.55%)                       217                 Insurance (.856%)                     288
Cleaning of Storage Tatnks              300                 Cleaning                              350
Brokerage (0.5%)                        197                 Brokerage (0.5%)                      168
Banking (0.5%)                          197                 Banking (0.5%)                        168
unloading (0.3%)                        119                 Unloading                             300
LosF in Transit (0.5%)                  197                 Loss in Transit (2.5,V)               BLO
8322                                                      6,150
FOB Douala                             31,198               FOB DoTuala                          27,LL2
Deductions FOB Douala to                                   Deductions FOB Douala to
Delivered Douala -                                          Delivered Douala -
Embarkation Tax                         200                Exporters Fee                         835
Export Tax                            1,350                Sealing Fee                             75
Taxes d* Condition                      100                General I.xpenses                    1,330
Transit Fee (Tax)                       425                 Export and other Taxes              2,7h0
Lighterage                            1,060
3, 135                                                    4,980
Delivered Douala.                      28,063               Delivered Douala                     22.462
Transport Costs                                            Transport Costs
Mbonto - Douala                         800                 Mbongo - Douala                       800(
Eseka - Douala                        1,b60                 Eseka - Douala                      L 0
Mill Gate Mbongo                                            Mill Gate Mbongo
After Taxes                          27,263                 After Taxes                        21,662
Before Taxes                         29,338                 Before Taxes                       2h,.L,02
Mill Gate Eseka                                             Mill. Gate Esekn
Af'ter Taxes                         26,603                 After Taxes                        21,002
Before Taxes                                                Before Taxes                       237LL2
Average il3l. Gate After Taxes         26,933               Average Mill Gate After Taxes        21, 332
Average Mill Gate Before Taxes         29,008              Average Mill Gate Before Taxes        2L,072
Domestic Sales Price Assumption
(Average Mill Gate Price After
Taxes Plus 25%)                        33,666
Weighted Average Mill Gate
Prices, Assuming Following
Proportions of Export and
and Domestic Sales
1972 through 197L (All Domestic)     33,666
1975 95% Domestic 5% tcport          33,33(
1976 86%   l" S<       "             32,724
1977 78'Z        22%                 32,1K
1978 7WL%        26%                 31,91i
LM  '01) %0f     30%'                31,6U,
(AndI Thereafter)
January 1969






ANNEX 4
EAST CAMEROON OIL PALM PROJECT
SOCIETE DES PALI4ERAIES DE MBONGO ET D'ESEKA
(SOPAME)
1.   Constitution
SOPA4E, a development corporation, would be established to execute
the project. The objects of the company include the creation and operation
of oil palm enterprises, the processing and selling of oil palm and kernels,
and assistance to smallholders engaged in growing oil palms in the vicinity,
including provision of processing facilities. The first nucleus oil palnm
estates will be developed at Mbongo and Eseka, the areas after wlhich the
Corporation is named.
Initially the Federal Government would own 48 percent of the equity
of SOPAME. The remaining shares would be subscribed by StI (12 percent) and
the cocoa and coffee price stabilization funds (20 percent each).
2.   Development Corporation Legislation
The Development Corporation Act includes, among others, the following
provisions:
(a)  At least 20 percent of the share capital must be held by the
state, public bodies and/or other development corporations.
(b)  Authorization may be given by decree for the inclusion of de-
velopment corporations under the Investment Code of the Cameroon
or the granting of industrial and/or commercial monopolies.
(c)  The commercial code of the Cameroon would be applicable to
development corporations.
(d)  State control of development corporations would be exercised
through the Minister of Planning by the appointment of a
Government Commissioner for each corporation.
3.   Composition and Powers of Board of Directors
The SOPAME articles of association provide for administration bv a
Board of Directors consisting of nine to twelve members. Initially the Board
would consist of eleven directors. The composition of the Board would include
four senior government officials, the Director General of SNI, the Chairmen
of the Chambers of Commerce and Agriculture, who also have other local busi-
ness interests, and two representatives from the management committees of
the cocoa and coffee price stabilization funds. The Board may decide that
other persons who are not directors may attend Board meetings as advisors.
The Board would appoint a Chairman, and if required a vice-Chairman
from among its members. Board meetings would be held as often as required



ANNEX 4
Page 2
and would be called by the Clairman or vice-Chairman, or by one-half of the
members. A director could appoint one or more of his colleagues as proxy
but not less than three directors must be actually present at the meeting.
Decisions would require a two-thirds majority of Directors present and re-
presented.  The Board would have powers to carry on all the operations fall-
ing within the objects o' the companv.
Directors would be entitled to receive attendance fees but under
the Development Corporations Act fees payable to directors representing the
state would be paid to the state, not the individual. Expenses incurred by
Directors for attending meetings would be r?imbursed.
4.   Mana-ement
The General Manager would be appointed by the Board of Directors
on the recommendation of the Minister of Planning and Development and would
he responsible, under the authority and control of the Chairman of the Board,
for the day to day management of the Company. The General Manager's powers
are fixed bv the Board of Directors.
5.   The Governiment Commissioner
The Government Commissioner for SOPAME would participate in
directors' and other meetings in an advisory capacity.    All doctmients for,
and minutes of such meetings, 'tould be submitted to the Commissioner who
also has power to investigate company records and premises.
If, as in the case of SOPkIE, the Government holds more than 50
nercent of the share capital, the Government Commissioner would have powers
to suspend action on decisions made at general and other meetings to enable
him to refer to the Minister of Planning for approval or reconsideration of
the decision. To ensure that the Commissioner's powers of suspension would
not hamper the effective operation of SOPAME, or affect the day to day man-
agement of the company, assurances have been obtained from the Government
that the right of supervision would be limited to decisions on general
policy matters which might increase tae charges and obligations of the Gov-
ernment under the Loan Agreement (e.g. decisions relating to new invest-
ments, indebtedness, etc.).
6.   Allocation to Reserves and Distribution of Profits
As required by law, five percent of the net profits would be allo-
cated to a reserve fund until the total reserve fund is equal to one-tenth
of the total share capital. The company statutes provide for a non-cumulative
dividend on paid-up capital of six percent, after allocation (if any) to tlle
reserve fund, but payment would be subject to cash requirements and avail-
ability. Further distribution of profits would be subject to recommendation
bv the directors and approval bv the sharehl(lders.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
7.   Accounts and Auditors
Proper accounts must be kept and the annual accounts would be
approved by the Minister of Planning and Development. The auditors, who may
be Government or private, are appointed by the shareholders, subject to the
approval of the Mfinister. There would be considerable advantages in employing
a private firm and Government assurances to this effect have been obtained.
8.   Head Office
The Head Office would be at Mbongo and branch offices may be estab-
lished by the Directors.






ANNEX 5
EAST CMTEROOF OIL PALI PROJECT
OIL PALM RES;EARCIl kND YIELDS
A. Research
1.        In 1948 the Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oleagineux
(IPHO) established an experimental station at La Dibamba in E. Cameroon.
IRHO is a French Government financed research institute.   Its headquarters
are in Paris and its main oil palm research station at La Me in the Ivorv
Coast. It conducts experimental work on oil palms in several countries,
including Congo-Brazzaville and Dahomey in Africa; and is providing tech-
nical advice on oil palm cultivation in Peru, Brazil, Colombia, lMalagasy,
Liberia, Ghana and the C.A.R. IRHO's research program is as comprehensive
as any other agency engaged in research on oil palms, and it is a well
staffed and conducted institution.
2.        The objective of the La Dibamba station is, and has been since its
iniception, to investigate the particular problems of oil palm cultivation in
E. Cameroon. Its major lines of work have been the testing of improved
varieties of oil palms; fertilizer trials; and the investigation of cultLural
techniques.
3.        The result of this work has been the establishment of a sound
technical base for the commercial developmenit of oil palm cultivation in E.
Cameroon.
4.        Experience obtained at La Dibambi, and other IRHO stations, would
be fully available to SOPANE through the technical assistance contact that
it would sign with IRIO.   In this way SOPAME would receive technical and
research support no less favorable than that available to commercial oil
palm enterprises elsewhere.
5.        The La Dibamba station shares a common border with the proposed
Mbongo estate, and has similar soils.   Yield performance at La Dibamba thus
can be taken as the potential for Mbongo. Eseka has different soils and a
different climate from La Dibamba. Nonetheless, neither soils nor climate
are less favorable for oil palm cultivation, and La Dibamba experience can
be applied to Eseka.
6.        Hybrid material of the varieties that would be planted on the two
estates, La Me x Deli and Deli x Yangambi-Sibiti, only came into bearing at
La Dibamba in the 1962/63 season. Over the four seasons 1962/63 through
1965/66, the La Me hybrid averaged 15 tons of ffb/ha annually and the Sibiti
hybrid 16 tons. Within this period the peak annual yield for the La Me
hybrid was 17.1 tons/ha, and that of the Sibiti hybrid 20 tons/ha. Remark-
able precocity has been shown by palms at La Dibamba and 1962 plantings of
the Sibiti hybrid came into bearing at four years of age (after castration)
yielding 16 tons/ha.



ANNEX 5
Page} 2
7.        Yields at La Dibamba are sensitive to fluctuations in insolation,
yields in the 1965/66 season falling significantly from 1964/65 levels due
to this factor. Conversely, the high yield of 1962 plantings in the same
season is partially attributed to favorable insolation during their devel-
opment period. Insolation is thus the limiting factor to yields in E. Cam-
eroon as it is throughout W. Africa.
R,         Since fluctuations in insolation can be expected to occur, and
since estate yields inevitably will be ,elow those obtained on the experi-
mental station, the following yield projections have been taken for the
vro1ect:
Mletric tons/ha
Year (Julv 1 - June 30)                                          8 through
from Planting                  4      5      6       7         25
resh fruit bunch                   5.0    8.0     9.0   12.0         13.5
Palm oil (percent of ffb)         15.0   17.0    19.0   20.0         21.0
Palr oil vield                     0.750  1.260   1.710  2.400        2.835
Palm kernels (percent of ffb)      4.0    4.2     4.4    4.7          5.O
Palm kernel yield                  0.o200  0.336  0.396  0.564        0.675



ANNEX 6
EAST CAMEROON
OIL PALM DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
LABOR SUPPLY AND LABOR COSTS
A. Project Labor Requirements
1.        The following table shows:
(a) the build up in the project labor force; and
(b)  for comparative purposes, the labor force required for
implementing the project at the same development pace but
using hand labor for clearing.
Project Labor/        Comparison
Force
1968            185                    335
1969            257                    307
1970            678                 1,603
1971          1,090                 2,702
1972          1,304                 3,567
1973          1,13C                 2,541
1974          1,018                 1,500
1975          1,119                 1,636
1976          1,253                  1,839
1977          1,480                 2,056
1978          1,643                 2,208
1979          1,764                 2,371
1980          1,849                 2,481
1981          1,864                  2,504
1982          1,864                  2,504
1983          1,864                  2,504
1984          1,864                  2,504
B. Labor Costs
2.        The Federal Government has set minltmum wage rates for agricultural
labor. In the project areas, classified as teie third wage zone, the guar-
anteed wage is CFAF 17.85 per hour. An estate gang would comprise 20
laborers working eight hours a day under a foreman receiving CFAF 300 dailv,
and three gangs would be supervised by a senior foreman earning CFAF 500 a
dav. Bv allowing three percent for overtime, and 18 percent for mandatory
social charges -- health insurance, accident insurance, paid holidays and
family allowances -- the average daily labor cost would be CFAF 202. The
/1   All estate and mill workers below managerial and clerical grades.



ANNFX 6
Pare 2
average monthly take-home pay, hiowever, would be only about CFAF 3,625.
Commercial employers of labor in E. Cameroon consider this inadequate to
allow the development of a loyal and productive permanent labor force, and
generally hold the view that a monthlv take-home pay in the range of CFAF
4,000 to 5,000 is required. For this reason in estimates of project labor
costs a daily labor cost of CFAF 242 is used. This allows an average monthly
take-home pay of CFAF 4,625 (US$19). Estate workers, in practice, would earn
more than this since most operations would be conducted on a piece work basis.
Cost estimates are based on standard labor days which assume very conservative
productivity.
C.  Labor Availability
3.        Population distribution in the Federation is shown by Map 4.
For E. Cameroon it highlights tlhree population centers. Two major, on the
southwest border and in the far north of the Region; and one minor, Yaounde
and areas immediatelv to its north.   Elsewhere population density is2low.
The Nyong-Kelle Department, which contains Eseka, comprises 6,000 km and
has a total p9pulation of about 72,000 persons and a population density of
12 persons/km . Population density in the Scnaga-Maritime Department, in
which Mbongo lies, is similar.
4.        By 1972 each estate would need between 600 and 700 workers, and by
1981 about 950. The Mbongo estate would be unable to obtain more than be-
tween 110 and 120 workers from its vicinity, and Eseka, where labor would be
obtained from the toxwn, between 350 and 400. The shortfall in labor would
have to be met by recruiting labor from more densely populated areas.
5.        The availabilities of labor in the Mlbongo and Eseka areas are based
on the assumption that only one-third of the males of working age, 50 years
and below andl who are not engaged in salaried employment, would seek permanent
emplovment on the estates.   This assumption may appear overly pessimistic
since non-salaried men are either unemployed or, in tlhe case of the majority,
self-employed in the traditional agriculture where returns to labor are
generally lower than estate wages and where a high degree of under-employment
exists.
6.        There is no shortage of labor in E. Cameroon.    Unemployment is
widespread in the touns, and underemployment common in rural areas.     This
situation does not result from the lack of employment opportunities, since
while the number of salaried positions is not large -- 155,000 in E. Cameroon
in 1964 -- there is no lack of opportunity for increased activity in the
traditional agriculture which generally is not constrained by a land short-
age. Unemployment and underemployment stem from the generally held attitude
that agricultural work is degrading for the educated man and this is given
support by the close familv ties which still govern society.    These require
family members in employment to support others who are out of work.
7.        Primary school facilities in the E. Cameroon are relatively good
and the large majority of children attend school. On leaving, their ambi-
tion is to obtain salaried work in areas where social amenities are avail-
able. As a result a steady drift to the towns is occurring. This situation



ANNEX 6
Page 3
will correct itself as people become aware that a primary school education
does not guarantee a white collar job, and as close family relationships
breakdown under economic pressure. Nonetheless, present attitudes are not
conducive to the rapid formation of a large and skilled agriculturaL labor
force. The experiences of a recently developed sugar estate illustrate the
problems. This estate has been developed in an area where the local popula-
tion cannot provide sufficient field workers and, as would be the case with
both Mbongo and Eseka, these have had to be brought in from outside. There
have been few problems in obtaining recruits, but the great majority have
left the estate within a few weeks. As a result the estate has been forced
to purchase mechanical cane harvesters. Conversely, the estate has had no
problems in recruiting factory workers, drivers and typists. The estate
management, which has very successfully developed a similar enterprise in
Congo-Brazzaville, believes that in time it will build up a permanent labor
force, but admits its over-confidence in the readiness of the E. Cameroon
worker, at the present time, to accept agricultural field work as permanent
employment.
D. Conclusion
8.        There would not be problems in recruiting workers for the number
of positions entailed in developing the two estates in the manner proposed,
although the majority would have to be obtained from outside the project
areas. There would be problems, however, in training and retaining a
permanent and efficient labor force since a considerable turnover in labor
could be expected. For this reason it would be impossible to implement the
project .planting program on the basis of hand clearing with labor require-
ments two to three times higher than the number required for mechanical
clearing. The keys to developing a satisfactory labor force would be fair
wages, which the project offers, and the provision of suitable amenities for
workers. In the latter case food supplies are important, since neither the
Mbongo or Eseka districts produce food in surplus.
9.        The project would meet the food problem in two ways.    First, bv
importing food from surplus areas and selling this at cost to workers.
Additionally, each married worker would be provided with 0.2 ha of cleared
land for a food garden which, as is the custom, his wife and family would
work. The Government has agreed to supply the estates with adequate edu-
cational and health facilities, expenditures on which would not form part
of project costs. The Government has agreed further to engage the services
of a consultant to design the layout of estate housing and associated
facilities.






EAST CAMEROON OIL PALM PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS FUR TWO 4,500 HECTARE ESTATES - 1968 THROUGH 1975
(CFAF '000)
Plantation Development           1968     1969      1970     1971     1972      1973     1974     1975       Total
Land Clearing                   44,000   89,500  153,000   207,000  157,500   45,000      -        -        696,000
Seeds                           26,550   25,980    23,100   11,550     -        -         -        -         87,180
Planting and Upkeep              6,722   18,701   49,187    79,213   93,116    75,552   53,071   37,679    413,241
Fertilizer & Insecticides         -       2,610     4,640    7,060    8,305   10,925    13,530   10,755      57,825
Tools, Cover Seed,
Wire Collars, etc.             3,280    6,490    20,040   30,030   31,500    15,850    4,200    3,450     114,840
Transport and Road Maintenance     840    5,610   11,310    16,020   13,320    6,180     2,970    2,070      58,320
Management, Staff and
Administration Overhead        9,613   38,800   63,000    64,750   73,450    71,850   47,950   29,725     399,138
Services (IRHO, etc.)              333      500     2,750    5,250    7,810     9,334    7,667    5,500      39,144
91,338  188,191  327,027   420,873  385,001  234,691   129,388 _89,179   1,865,688
Vehicles, Tractors, Etc.         5,700    9,050     8,200   13,950    3,150    3,900     9,100    9,500      62,550
Houses, Buildings, Etc.         45,232    57,195   32,404   23,286   34,783     5,532    1,766    1,532     201,730
Mill Costs                        -         -       6,ooo   12,000  147,570   278,555  136,985   68,295     649,405
142,270  254,436   373,631  470,109  570,504   522,678  277,239  168,506   2,779,373
Contingencies/ g1,965                     6,597    13,238   21,049   41,300    47,768   27,724   16,851     176,492
144,235  261,033  386,869   491,158  611,804   570,446  304,963  185,357   2,955,865
SOPAME Operating LossesJ2         -        -         -        -       1,200    17,500   28,700     -         47,400
Total Project Costs            144,235   261,033  386,869  491,158 613        5,4                185,357 3,003,265
J   1968-2%, 1969-4%, 1970-61., 1971-8%, 1972 and thereafter 10% on all expenditure except land clearing and
operating losses.
2 Before charging depreciation and amortization.
December 20, 1968.



RAS? CUKMYX OIL LA34 PRO1JST
SoTEOcs &1D LpcuT 1mm or runs 1968 THR-u8 H 1E991
19681969 /Y    1970    19971   1972     1973    1974    1975    1976     1977    1976    1979    1980     1981    1982    1983    1984     1985    1986    1987    1988     1989   L19O     1991
APPLICATION o0 FUND3
Plantation Developoect              279.5        327.o   420.9   385.0    234.7   129.4    89.2    27.9     6.9     -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -            -       -
Ve.thles, Tractora etc.              14.8          8.2    13.9     3.2      3.9     9.1     9.5    11.8    18.6    11.O    17.1    16.1     13.1    12.0    18.5    12.8     17.9    15,.6   15.1     11.0    18.3    13.5     13.6
lococo, 9oIldings etc.              102.3         32.4    23.3    34.7      S.S     1.8     1.5     4.7     9.0    102.    16.4    2141     16.9    13.2     6.4     3.0      2.9     3.0     5.0      6.3     5.5     S.O      3.0
Kills                                 -            6.0    12.0   147.6    278.6   137.0    68.3    68.3   108.2   100.?     -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -        -               -        -
396.6        373.6   b70.1    570.5   522.7   277.3   168.5    12.7   142.7   332.3    33.5     30.2    30.2    2%&s   28.9      1;8.    20.8    18.6    20.1     20.3    23.8    18.9     16.6
Co0ti.gencie0                         8.6         13.2    21.0    41.3     47.7    27.7.   16.9    U1.3    14.3    13.2     2.6     2.2      1.6     1.5     2.1     1.6      2.0     1.8     1.8      1.5     1.8     1.4      1.4
405.2        386.8   491.1   611.8    570.14  305.0   185.4    124.0  157.0   1b5.5    36.1    32.4     31.6    26.7    27,0     17.4    22.8    20.1,   21.9      .8     25.6    19.9     18.0
LoOn Intornst and Repaey-t.
.3R                                  -..                           - -                      -             125.9   125.9   174.1   174.1   174.1    174.1   174.1  1in.1I   174.1    174.1   174.1   174.1    174.1   17L.1   174.1
CCCE                       ~                      -- -     -       2.1      8.0    12.4    14.2    1      1. 2 93.1  1.57   0.12   48.7     48.5    46.9   145.2    43.6     42.4    40.6    38.9     38.9     - 
TOTAL APFLICATrON OF FUNu8S         405.2        386.8   491.1   613.     578.4   317.4   199.6   139.9   336.o   323.1   260.4    255.2   254.2   247.7   246.3   235.1    239.3   235.1   234.9    234.8   199.7   19h.0   192.1
SOCnCE1OF 0UNMS
Share capital Subscribed
by Government                     375.3        017.6    58.8     58,8     -       -        -       -      -                -       _       -       _       _        -       _       _        _       _       _        ,
n. cod Chmnt.
ITtD Loar.                          135.1,       187.7   283.6   287.0    333.7   227.3    27.3      -      -       -       -       _        _       _          _       _     _       _       _        _
CCCE Loan                            -             -       -      121.8   218.3    28.3    74.6      -      -       _       _       _        _       _          _       _       _     _          _     _       _       ,
F17 OrCol -u.7                                    V7.2   1lh. 0  161.1      -       -          -       _    _       _       _       _        _       _       _       _        _       _       _        _
SeL- rneracrad Funds -               _             _ -             0.9     (9.9)  (16.3) - 47.4   1 _26.2  246.8  367.4   459.S   523.3    537.5   534.8   53434.8     8    534.8    .8 e   S34.8    934.8   s34.8   534.8    534.8
rOTA' SCU1CRO OF FUNDS              551.4        402.5   486.4   629.6    542.5   239.3   149.3   126.2   246.8    )61,4  459.9    523.3   537.5   534.8   534.8    534.8   534.8   534.6    534.8   534.8   534.8    534.8   534.0
An-uaI SIrplu. (Deficit) 2          146.2         15.7    (4.7)   15.7    (35.9)  (78-1)  (50.3)  (13.3)  (89.2)   38.3   199.5    268.1   283.3   287.1   288.5    299.7   295.5   299.7    299.9   300.0   335.1    340.8   342.7
Cunu,ativc Surpl s_(Deficit) 2      146.2        161.9   157.2   172.9    137.0    58.9     8.6    (4.7) (93.9)    (55.6)  1_3.9   412.0   695.3   9B2.4 1,270.9 1,570.6 1,866.1  2,165.8 2,465.7  2,765.7  3,100.8  3,441.6  3,784.3
e sct surpla or deficit o. operating e,ccouat after ad.3ust.ta For doweciaeton, amertiation
and capitalized interest.
'/ The annual cash surpim earising in 1980 a.o thereafter wuld be availablo for distribution,
subject to working capital reqcirents, provision f-r rep0a1tii   etc.
/ Total sapecilture to Deo.ob.r 31, 1968 will be appromdxately CFAF 85 etLion copwared with
CT1F 141 illiton in rnnax 7. Rotroaotive financing by FACT, 000 and the Blic would apply to
experiit99    incurred ater Nover 1, 1968.
1--4ay 1969



IAST CAMEROC! OIL PALM PRDJECT
Summary U.1t of Goods to be Finaiced by Bank Loan and Estimated Annual Disburseennts
(CFAF '000)
1968-1969        1970         1971      1972        1973        197h        1975       Total      Total (US$1M)      Contingencie s
Imports - Disbursesa nt 100%
1.  Laseka Mill Machinery and Squip-
men                                    -      -                  - t                  101,6lO      53,945        -       iSS,SS5         0.63              15,556
2. Fertilizers, Pesticides, Tools,
Cover Seeds and Wire Netting          8,110         16,1 2      24,641    26,116       15,166       7,209      5,815     103,479        o.42                8,664
3. 'iehicles, Tractors and Farm
iquipmrnt                             8,1L5          7,38(      12,555     2,835        3,510       8,190      8,55o      51,165        0.21                4,o87
4. Building Materials for
Plantations                          25,607          8, 1(1      5,822     8,696        1,383         442        383      50,L34        0,20                2,840
5. Oil Palm Seeds                          21,021        16,170        8,085       -            -                      -        45,276        0.18                2,296
Contracts
Disbur seenst IOO%
6. Design, Ingtallation and
Construction of Fseka Oil
Mill, Ancillary Installations
and Buildings                          -              -          o.        6,ooo     39,960      83,o40        -       135,0n0         o.55               13,380
Disbur8nent 60% 2/
7. Land Clearing Contract                  40,500        Y1,800      124,200    94,500       27,000         -          -       378,000        1.53
Pla-nta-tion Developsmnt 2"
8. Pals Planting and Maintenance,
Construction of Plantation
Housing, Buildings and
Offices, Management etc.             29, 066        42,)109     90,567   131-359      117,213      53,800     10,055     474 469         1.92               41,799
132,449        182,262      271,870   269,506      305,842    206,626     24,803   1,393,378         5.64               88,622
Contingencies                                 2,944          5,436      11,713    17,502       27,88L      20,663      2,480      88,622         0.36
135.393        187,718      283,s83  287,008       333,726    227,289     27,283   1,482,000         6.oo               88,622
i/ Disbursement against iters 1 through 5 is restricted to foreign exchange component.  Estimated proportions of
total cost are ito's (i) 100%, (ii) fertiliz.er 30%, tools, cover seed etc. 75%, (iii) 90%, (iv) 25%, (v) 70%
2/ FAG and CGCE would disburse balance of 40%; cost of clearing first. 600 ha at Mbong' will b- financedby Coverm"ent
3' Equal to 42.6% )f total plantation devel 'psent costs; FAC and CCCG will finance 1?.8% and the Government 37.6%.
January 1969






ANNEX 10
EAST CAMEROON OIL PALM PROJECT
Senior Staff Reguirenents
1.        The following table shows the senior staff required to execute
the project:
Requirements 1968-1975: Staff in Post by Years
Head Office - Mbogo    1968  1969  1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975
General Manager         1     1    )
Chief Accountant        -     1    )    and subsequent years
Administrative Ass't./                    including 1975
Personnel Manager      -     1    )
Estates - Mbongo and Eseka
Estate Managers         -     2     2     2     2    )
Estate Assistant                                        and subsequent
Managers               -     1     6     6     6    )
years including 1975
Doctors                 -     -     -     -     2    )
Mills
Senior Mill Engineer    -     -     -     -     -       1     2    2
Mill Engineers          -     -     -     -     -       1      2    2
Recruitment and Training
2.        All posts, with the exception of doctors, mill engineers and fotur
estate assistant managers, would be filled initially by expatriates.  There
are no E. Cameroonians with experience in modern estate practice, and rela-
tively few with conmercial oil palm cultivation experience.
3.        Recuitment is being conducted by IRHO, who were successful in
recruiting well qualified personnel for a large Government-owned oil palm
estate project in the Ivory Coast. The General Manager designate has been
appointed and candidates for some of the other appointments have been short-
listed. The Government would submit for approval to the Bank the names and
references of appointees to senior staff positions and changes made in these
appointments during the development period would also be approved by the
Bank.
4.        There is a University Agricultural College near Yaotnde, Ecole
Nationale Superieur d'Agriculture, and it is expected that some Cameroonian



AN^"NEX 10
Paige 2
graduates of this college would fill posts up to and including estate
plantation assistant manager level. Appropriate practical experience w7ould
be required which would be obtalined by seconduient to Camdev and training
under supervision by SOPAPE: senior staff.  After an appropriate period of
practical experience, promotion of Cameroonians to estate manager posts would
be considered as and when vacanicies occur. In addition, it is probable that
qualified l. Catneroonians, at present empyloed by Camdev, would anply for,
and he considered, for SOPAME posts.  There are also a number of personnel
i%Ith oil paln experience enmploved by simall Government-owned estates who may
he suitahle for appointment to estate plantation assistant posts bv SOPA4E.



nST C&JNOON OIL PAL PROJZCT
PROJICTED OPflATID ACCCGUB 1969 TEOUOS 1991
(CPUY ML4iLioiu
1969    1970    191      m       1973    1974    1975     1976    1977    1978    1979     1980    1981    1982     1983    1984    1985    1986     197     1988    1989     19      1991
In-o- fom Sales of   v
FFB, Oil ond Iernls              -       -       -       5.3    11.1     63.5   198.9    368.1   545.1    697.9   826.4   913.0   937.2    937.2   937.2   937.2   937.2    937.2   937.2   937.2    937.2   937.2   937.2
I.sS Operating xpenditure
(incluJing contingen-
ciea)                         -       -       -        4.4    20.6    79.8   1Sl.5    241.9   298.3    336.5   366.5   389.7   399.7    402.4   402.4.  402.4    402.4   402.4   401.4   402.4    402.4   402.4   402.14
Deprepiatiou                 9.9     10.4    114.5   17.3     17.5    31.8    45.6     51.5    57.6     66.1    14.8    76.2    77.4     78.3    78.6    78.8    78.9     78.9    79.1    79.5     79.9    80.2    80.5
Amortization                  -       -       -       2.9      4.5    16.8    37.3     64.1    79.0     79.0    79.0    79.0    79.0     79.0    79.0    79.0     79.0    79.0    79.0     79.0    79.0    79.0    79.0
9.9    10. 4    14.5    24.6    42.6    128.4   234.4    357.5   434.9   481.6    520.3   544.9   556.1   559.7    560.0   560.2   560.3   560.3    560.5   560.9   561. j   561.6   561.9
Interest                         (9.9)   (10.4)  (14.5)  (19.3)  (31.5)   (64.9)  (35.5)    10.6   110.2   216.3    306.1   368.1   381.1   377.5    377.2   377.0   376.9   376.9    376.7   376.3   375.9    375.6   375.3
Less Loan Interest
CCCE                          -       -       -       2.1      8.0    12.4    14.2     15.5    16.2     14.8    13.3    11.8     U6      10.0     8.3     6.7      5.5     3.7     1.9      1.9     -       _       _
IBP.D 2/                                          -        -       -           -        -     125.9    125.9   125.9   123.5   354.3    350.6   113.6   108.6   103.7     98.8    93.8    88.9     83.9    77.8    71.6
_       _ -      2.1     8.0    12.4    14.2     15.5    162.1   140.7   139.2    135.3   365.9   360.6   121.9    115.3   109.2   102.5     95.7    90.8    83.9     77.8    71.6
Net 0S?lus    (Dficlt)
Lnt-re_t                         (9.9)   (10.4)   (14.5) (21.4)   (39.5)  (77.3)  (49.7)   (4.9)   (31.9)   75.6    166.9   232.8    15.2    16.9    255.3   261.7   267.7    274.4   281.0   285.5    292.0   297.8   303.7
ultvei         usor
(Dficit)AtrCagr
____ _nterst                     (9.9)    (20.3)  (34.8)  (56.2)  (95.7)  (173.0) (222.7) (227.6)  (259.5)  (183.9)  (17.0)  215.8  231.0    247.9   503.2   761.9 1,032.6  1,307.0 1,588.0  1,873.5  2,165.5  2,163.3  2,767.0
1/ In 1972 and 1973 FFB fr  Xbongo Estate wuld be aold to tse BlZi kil or processed idth hand presses, as would the
first ea   production at urn in 19774.
2/ Includes Capitalized Interest written off in 1981 and 1982.
January I 76



PAM COOII 0N OIL PALM OJ1C
PROJZTZD BYLiCX SHRs 1969 TORO010u 1991
(CPA? ?dlion)
1969     1970    1971     1972     1973     j197    1975    l96        97 7          1S79     160      1981    1982     1983     184     1S5      1986     187      1988    1989     19       1991
ASMSI3
Pl-ntati.. Deoe1oar0p t Cost  284.4   621.9   1,059.9  1,467.6  1,721.2  1,863.6  1,961.7  1,992.3  2,030.0 2,000.0 2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0
Lsss Ao,ortization             -        -        -        3.0      2.5     24.3     61.6   125.7    204.7   283.7   362.8   441.8    520.8    599.8   678.6    757.8    836.9    915.9   99.49  1,073.9  1.152.9  1.231.9  1.310.9
284.4    621.9   1.059.9  1.464.6  1,713.7  1,839.3  1,900.1  1,866.6  1.795.3 1.716.3 1,637.2  1.558.2  1.479.2  1.400.2  1.321.2  1,242.2  1.163.1  1.004.1  1.005.1  926.1  8W7.1  768.1    689.1
Vshicleo, Trmotoro & Equiprent  15.2   23.9      38.9     42.4    46.7     56.7     67.2    80.1    loo.5   115.9   134.7    152.1   166.8    180.0   200.4    214.4    234.1    251.2   267.8    283.2    303.3   318.2    333.1
Le-o Deprsciatlon              3.8      8.5      16.1     24.9    33.7     4.2.7    51.7    62.7     75.9    90.8   107.3   124.4    14i.5    158.6   175.7    192.8    209.9   227.0    244.1    261.1    278.3   295.4    312.1
.1.4    15.4     22.8     17.5     13.0     14.0    15.5     17.4     24.6   25.1    27.4     28.0     25.3    21.4     24.7     21.6    24.2     24.2     23.7     22.1    25.0     22.8     20.7
H.-.,,, Duildings & RaUted
,.rn.ftructurs              105.6   139.9     165.0    203.3   209.5    211.4    213.1   218.3    228.3   239.3   256.7    271.4   288.6    302.1    308.7   312.0    315.3    318.5   323.7    330.1    335.7    31O.7   343.7
Dp,., Fnorectotno,             6.1     11.8      18.7     27.2    35.9     44.8     53.6    62.7     72.2    82.2    S3.0    104.6    i7.14   131.1   145.1    159.3    173.7    187.S   202.3    217.3    232.6    248.3   261L.1
99.5    138.1    1A6.3    176.1    173.6    166.6   159.5    155.6    156.1  157.1   13.7     16.8    11,.2    171.O    163.6    152.7   141.6    130.6    121.1    112.8   103.1     32.4     79.6
liub                           -        6.3     19.3    181.7   4188.o    638.7    713.8   789.0    908.0 1,027.1 1,027.1  1,027.1  1,027.1  1,027.1  1,027.1  1,027.1  1,027.1  1,027.1  1,027.1  1,027.1  1,027.1  1,027.1  1,027.1
L-s iRpoecation i                       -        -        -        -       13.9     41.7    73.0    108.0   149.2   196.7   244rt    tF.7     339.2   386.7    43k.1    481.6     MI9.1  576.6    624.1    671.6   n9.o     766.6
_        6.3     19.3    181.7    488.o    624.8   672.1    716.0   800.0   877.9   830.4    782.9    735.4   687.9    640.4    593.0   545.5    498.o _450.5      403.0   355.5    308.1    260.5
Total Fix-d Aesets            395.3    771.7  1,248.3  1,839.9  2,388.3  2,644.7  2,717.2  2,755.6  2,776.0 2,776.4 2,658.7  2,535.9  2,411.1  2,280.5  2,149.9  2,O09.5  1,874.4  1,736.9  1,610.7  1,464.0  1,330.7  1,191.4  1,OL5.9
biorkir, C-ital               11.6.2  161.9     157.2    172.9    137.0    58.9      8.6     (4.7)  (93.9)  (55.6)  143.9    412.0   695.3    982.4  1,270.9  1,570.6  1,866.1  2,165.8  2,465.7  2,765.7  3,100.6  3,.1.16  3,784.3
Gnp i z1 -ed 17ter- t -
CIBR   )Ln   r   -           6.9     22.3      53.9    106.2   182.0    270.0    368.o   4.69o    469.o   469.o   469.0    469.0   234.5      -      -        -        -        -       -        -
Total Aso.st                  548.4   955.9   1.459.h  2.119.0  2.707.3  2,973.6  3,123.8  3.219.9  3.151.1 3,180.  3,271.6  3.416.9  3.340.9  3,262.9  3.420.8  3,580.1  3.740.5  3,902.7  4.066.4  4,229.7  4..31.5  4.633.c  1;.83,.2
L [AB3II.TIRS
Shure Cap:a                   375.3   492.9     551.7    610.5   610.5    610.5    610.5   610.5    610.5   610.5   610.5    610.5   610.5    610.5    610.5   610.5    610.5    610.5    610.5   610.5    610.5    613.5   610.5
0,elative Sorpl. (Defic1t)     (9.9)  (20.3)    (34.8)   (56.2)  (95.7)   (173.0)  (222.7)  (227.6)  (259.5) (183.9)  (17.0)  215.8  231.0    247.9    503.2   764.9  1,032.6  1,307.0  1,588.0  1.873.5  2,165.5  2,463.3  2,767.0
Total rot-;                   365.1   472.6     516.9    55.3   514.8    437.5    387.8   332.9    351.0   426.6   593.5    826.3   841.5    858.4  1.113.?  1,375.4  1.643.1  1.917.5  2.198.5  2.4814.0  2,776.0  3,073.8  3,377.5
iac and bOrntO
IBsRD10,,                   14.2.3  345.4     660.6    999.9  1,109.4  1,724.7  1,850.0  1,951.0  1,951.0 1,951.0 1,902.8  1,852.2  1,797.9  1,739.9  1,679.4  1,613.9  1,543.5  1,468.2  1,387.9  1,302.7  1,212.5  1,116.2  1,013.7
CCo Iln                       -       -        -       121.8    31.0.1  368.4    441.13.0  1.3.0  1.06.1  369.2   332.3    295.1   258.5    221.6    184.7    147.6    10.9     74.0     37.0     -       -        -        -
FAC Orannt                    0.7    137.9      281.9  1.3.0    443.0    443.0   443.0    443.0    443.0  443.0   443.0    443.o    443.0   413.0    113.0    443.0   443-.0   43.0     443.0    443.0   443.0    143-0    843.0
Total Loz  -d O-ate           183.0   483.3     942.5  1,564.7  2,192.5  2,536.1  2,736.0  2,837.0  2,800.1 2,763.2 2,678.1  2,590.6  2,499.4  2.404.5  2.307.1  2.204.7  2.097.4  1,985.2  1.867.9  1.745.7  16655.5  1.559.2  1.456.7
Total labiliti,e             548.4   955.9   1,45..4  2,119.0  2.707.3  2,973.6  3.123,8  3.219.9  3,151.1 3.189.8 3,271.6  3,41.6.9  3.340.9  3,262.9  3,420.8  3.560.1  37140.5  3.902.7  4.066.4  4,229.7  4..4431.5  4.633.0  4.834.2
1/ It hoa boeo asomd thlat oopitalioed iotereat would be written off in 1981 od 1982, thn e1leaet datea whon aeffitieet pwofita would b a- ble.
2/ Total eo.ud ahwre oepita1 vould actunlly be CKAF 810.5 mi 1 on - the Ooves-,eet haa pla.d a valoe of CFAY 200 illion on unplered Ind at UUA                                                                                   (;
o,d ,b.ongo for e66oh ahareo wotuld be iSeued.
Jsn..ry 1969



MAP I
N    I G F            j                                                        FOUMBOT
BAFOUSSAM
> 0  v   ,                 /               ,' DSCHANG
'- AFFiCAN 
REP                                               BFN
__, t REF . O  jW E  S- r c A M  R O O IV  BBAFANG AN  ANGANGTE
a3tsl >      !,'----,--     --  ' 
RG AeC  t v /      '    '7   ~s        
O  'P                                  MBANG 6 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kondjok
_________ ________N dion
,,  A. *     '                                                   N D I  KB        A F I A
VICTORIA/                  >\ /   X     YINGI                        KITO
$           J A Z~~~MBANGA                                                TU
g J/4 tMP\NA / \ ,# elK1MPINA
A T L A A/ / C   - .dadenou  Ekona.'    OMONC                          N J GAMBE 'f          
O C E- A N         - 1  UA<      M0      1BWELEL(DibmbD                          K /   kot               f
r W4_ S~~~~~ 0                TIO N *| 
EAST CAMEROON           . -\     DIZANGUE    EO/tEA  (Mokondo/,
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM             MOUANGO      EDEA 
@ tOther oll palm esrares,'pro>eots . X SUE              akond
F,                                                  MB  Ayo el  '  0OO _ 
Major roads                          p                 LO*DD 
R ,a i I W a y                                    --!  ,
. .  _/Mok~our6e \    <   \/
0 020   30   4 50 'M. Jdu
0    10  20   30  40   50 M
MA'           '~~  '   'J-''                       ''').J






MAP 2
Bonend le                           assLodgbdjek
yez                                ,                                    'w /EAST CAMEROON
Buea0  \  /.       /                 . /      ~                 \MBONGO ESTATE SITE AND
...     C3                      }/                              \              INFRASTRUCTURE
/i <  ,)PROJECT AREA
(                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS
.. :- ... s ... :: / 5 / < \ i , , ll-                                                          RAILWAY
RIVERS
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, -D-ib- o.c e\
,. , ,.... .                                           o TA  TI
,        ,,~~~~~~a   . -.  . . .                    -                                                                            0  
-                                         -  -  /  <  -  F  -<//// _ j M ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~No li m ba  Boci o
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~og
- - ?\t, .,,,-. C, A,, .1\ ' A\\/////,43 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Poumo
--  -:   --  :.-  0   \   \  %  \   ':                                              - g /n/ .-\\ o Dizoniue // ~~~~~~~~~0 Dzon 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<-  \ 0 \              /:: - \  .                           E \PLANTATION2KM..P  /no
APRIL  1968 -  .   ..   -  -.,                                                                                                    RD.  -  ., '--. : /  Esekc
' 1 /-- - ,\ ~~~~~Mouanko / /I
:: r : == = / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Likouk
APRlL 1968                                                                                                                      IBRD-22'81






MAP 2
Bonendl                        oYbbadjek
EAST CAMEROON
r.o                                                \                         / ...... /       / . /~ \ MBONGO ESTATE SITE AND
l Bamber     A A                                                                 INFRASTRUCTURE
-  ,,,PROJECT AREA
_( ... . ............. t ....... \ . | ) >, /                                            ROADS
. - 4< jz - i . < ySt ( i & | | | | | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILWAY
. - ... . + ...... 1 2 / , \ . = - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--
*0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
. . . ..... . > \ P~~~~it i -Di ba m ba /
w-X   0  \              I%///+ ~~~~~~S TA T/0//                                                 0 D
0 .Kw. .  0  .  .-\\                          F omo 0\>   ;   /X/////9don   a  -   P u
APRIL 1968                                                                                                             IBR V \ 0'" X ' - / \\//< )Di   // --:8i
\, :- > /,< / / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eseka
:.   .  .   -  -   0   0      X   --~~~~~~~..   Mou  nk
, ,, 1 \ : / / / /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> ,  X , - /   o             1              ~~~~  ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~2 KM.  aMO
APRIL 1968                                                                                                               I BRD - 2.8 1






MAP 3
EAST CAMEROON
ESEKA ESTATE SITE AND
INFRASTRUCTURE                                              *Boga
(}   Hospital
+    Dispensary
*    Secondary school
*    Primary school                    /                          J
7,2   Project Zone
~~~ < >/ ~~~~~~~~~B o gso)
*Bidjoka.'-  sSo                  anen
dogbessol* r ~~~~~~~~~~~ogp
_-~~~~~~-     g                | ~~~~ Mongenges
/     v~Scierie    ,          i 
APRIL 1968loo 0                                200K
APRIL 1968                                                        IBRD-2283






,MAP 4
F ot F-uecu
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
POPULATION  DENSITY                         d --:  - (
(rrhabitorts per squore kiometer)
|   Z | Less tho-S 5
5- 10
10 - 20                 Gd
20 - 40
40 - 80
Motrehtr 80
\   Pal,  0 ReyBoubo
/~ ~ ~ :4                    X                     .
0  loo  200 KM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mloro
/Kt /TignFre  (   -NT/
K~  ~~H ()                ->1) 
MAY .  ..C8                                               1131t.-2272
4        <  O  \ 8efore-Oyo }~~tx
j      shuso'b'5Yk 
-b           ki,            oN g -b.B  ,
VA   KrBa P;              |  *               i
Compot  6  S  9)  Ambom  )  /  l   |          i~~~~~~
I f g< X.  .~~~ t ~~ 4-1 ~~ t
/~~~~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Djou        '
MAY 196B                                                   1IDRD-2278R



