RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                    Report No. P - 7 31
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON
(DFCC)
UNDER THE GUARANTEE OF CEYLON
July 2, 1969



REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
SECOND LOAN TO THE
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON
UNDER THE GUARANTEE OF CEYLON
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$8.0 million to the
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In November 1967, the Bank made its first loan of $4 million to
the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon. This loan will be fully
committed for sub-projects in the near future.
3.        Negotiations for a second loan took place in Washington between
June 9 and Juine 17. DFCC was represented by Mr. G.B.S. Gomes (Chairman)
and Mr. L.A. Weerasinghe (General Manager). Mr. C. Loganathan (General
Manager designate of DFCC) also attended the negotiations. The Government
was represented by Mr. David Loos of the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Affairs.
4.        The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Ceylon as of May 31, 1969:
Amount (US$ million)
Year    N\o.          Borrower         Purpose          Bank  IDA  Undisbursed
1954   101-CE   Government of Ceylon   Power            15.9   -        _
1958   209-CE   Government of Ceylon   Power             7.3   -
1961   283-CE   Government of Ceylon   Power            14.1   -        -
1967   520-CE   Development Finance    Industrial
Corporation of Ceylon  Finance           4.0   -       3.4
1968   121-CE   Government of Ceylon   Irrigation             2.0      2.0
1968   569-CE   Government of Ceylon   Highways         4.9    -       4.9
1968   133-CE   Government of Ceylon   Highways               4.9      4.9
Total (less cancellations)             46.2   6.9     15.2
Of which has been repaid to
Bank and others                      11.0
Total now outstanding                  35.2
Amount sold                3.3
Of which has been repaid   2.6          0.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA         34.5
Total undisbursed                       8.3   6.9     15.2



- 2 -
5.     The irrigation and highway projects approved last year are
progressing satisfactorily. There have been no disbursements on these
projects todate because the Goverrmnnt could nct begin to prepare tender
documents until after the loan and credit documents were negotiated. The
intervening months have been taken up wfith the usual bidding, evaluation
and ordering pToceaures.
6.     Other lending operations coming up in Ceylon are a loan of $21
million for a power project (for Which negotiations have been substantially
completed), a land reclamation and drainage project and the first stage of
the Nahaweli Ganga nulti-purpose irrigation and power project.
7.     IFC has made no investments in Ceylon.  However, it is considering
an investment in both loan and equity in a textile project to be jointly
financed with DFCC and the Bank of Ceylon. Ibst of the uncommitted balance
of $1.5 million under the first DFCO loan is earmarked for this project.
PAiRT II - ESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED LQAN
8.     Borrower:              Davelo-pment Finance Corporation of Ceylon.
Guarantor:             Goverrernt of Ceylon.
Amount:                Various currencies equivalent to $8.0 million.
Purpose:               To enable DFW to finance the foreign exchange
costs of specific investment projects under-
taken by private industrial, agricultural and
conmercial enterprises in Ceylon.
Amrtization:           The initial amortization schedule provides
for repayment over 15 yzars, in 31 semi-annual
paymnents beginning May 1, 1972 and ending
iA-y 1, 1467, but is sabject to change in order
ultimately to conform substantially to the
aggregate of the amortization schedules for
subloans and investments financed from the
proceeds of the loan.
Interest Rate:        6* percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:     3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
Prior Approval of      All subloans for projects requiring more than
Projects:              $100,000 in foreign exchange and all share
investments will require the Bank's prior
approval. Subloans for projects requiring
$100,000 or less will not require the Bank's
prior approval, subject to an aggregate
limit of $2 million.



PART III - THE PhDJECT
9.     An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of the Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon" (No. DB-50a, dated June 30, 1969) is atbache6.
10.    In the first 12 years following its establishment by Act of
Parliament in 1955, DFCC remained a small-scale, cautious institution,
providing limited amounts of long-term development finance mainly for the
expansion of private industry. DFCO's slow growth during these years was
largely due to general conditions prevailing in Ceylon. In the early part
of the period, industry in Ceylon had little or no protection from imports.
Later, Government policy favored public rather than private sector industrial
development, and when foreign exchange became scarce and import controls
were imposed in the early 1960's, private industrial investment almost
ceased, because the Government allotted little foreign exchange for that
purpose.
11.    The Bank loan to DFCC in 1967 followed an improvement in the
investment climate resulting from a recovery in the econonm, together with
efforts by the Government to encourage private sector investment.   Since
1967 more foreign exchange has become available for private industry, and
the Government has resumed processing   investment   proposals from the
private sector, of which there was a large backlog. Industrial production
has grown rapidly in the past two years and efficiency has increased, mainly
because of fuller use of existing capacity. Investment in private industry
has also been increasing. DFCC has had no difficulty in finding suitable
projects to finance and, in fact, its recent level of business has been
determined largely by its capacity to process applications. DFCC is expected
to commit the full $4 million of the 1967 Bmnk loan in less than the twzo
years originally envisaged.
12.    By March 1969 DFCC had made a cumulative total of 1h2 loans amounting
to Rs.72.8 million (US$12.2 million) and 30 share investments amounting to
Rs.9.1 million (US$1.5 million). Its profitability has been satisfactory.
DFCC's project appraisals have been improving in quality. Its portfolio is
judged to be good, and debt recovery has presented few problems.
13.    The investment climate in Ceylon is likely to continue to improve,
and there are clearly opportunities for DFCC to increase its volume of
business significantly as soon as the organization is strengthened. Toward
this end DFCC's Board of Directors recently appointed Mr. C. Loganathan
(formerly General Manager of the Bank of Ceylon) to succeed the retiring
General Manager. Mr. Loganathan is expected to provide DFCC with the
leadership needed to respond to the growing opportunities.
14.    On the basis of financing applications at present under consideration
or expected in future, it is estimated that over the next two years DFCC
will be able to commit about $16 million equivalent, of which about $10
million to $11 million will be in foreign exchange. DFCC has negotiated
a loan of DM 6 million ($1.5 million equivalent) with Kreditanstalt fu!r
Wiederaufbau of Germany, for which the formalities are expected to be



completed in the near future.  Taking into account this loan and funds
already in hand, DFCC will need an additional amount of about $8 million
in foreign exchange resources to cover anticipated commitments over this
period.  The proiosed Bank loan wouldJ meet this neecl.  DFCC's lending in
local currency will be financed mainly from the repayments of earlier loans,
supplemented by borrowing under a refinancing scheme operated by the Central
Bank of Ceylon. DFCC is also contemplating an issue of share capital before
the end of 1970.
15.       In future both the average and minimum size of loans made by DFCC
are likely to increase. To reflect this, and also the growing strength of
the institution, we propose to raise the size of subloans which can be made
out of the Bank loan without the Bank's prior approval from $30,000 to
1100,000.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMETNTS AND AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and DFCC, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between Ceylon and the Bank, the Report of the Committee
Drovided for in Article III Section L(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and
the text of a Resolution approving the proposed Loan are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. The agreements follow closely the
forms currently in use for loans to oevelopment finance companies.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
17.       The economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Ceylon" (SA2a) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
February 7, 1969.
18.       The report describes the continuec progress of the economy in 1968.
This progress followed three years during which the severe crisis of 1965
was overcome and a soundly-based development effort launched. Ceylon's
success in these three years, despite falling export earnings, was made
possible partly by inflows of foreign assistance. During this period the
available foreign exchange has been carefully allocated to permit substantial
increases in imports of raw materials, spare parts and current agricultural
inputs. Dbmestic food production, particularly rice, also increased
impressively.
19.       Progress in 1968 was assisted by a 20% devaluation in November 1967,
followed by an exchange reform in May 1968 whereby nearly half of Ceylon's
payments transactions now take place at a still higher rate. This exchange
reform permitted some liberalization of inports, and most industrial raw
materials and spare parts are now permitted under open general licence.
This resulted in the private sector being willing to run down stocks of
these items and contributed to the remarkable 45% increase in industrial
production recorded in 1968. 1968 also saw a larger allocation of foreign



exchange for imported capital goods for :nrivate industry, thus permitting
an increase in private manufacturing investment from the very low levels of
earlier years. Economic growth in 1968 turned out to be higher than
estimated in the report, and GDP in real terms was more than 8% above the
1967 level. This increase was achieved almost entirely by the growth of
production for domestic use.
20.       Members of the Ceylon Aid Group, meeting in Paris in 1March,
recognized the achievements of the recent past but noted that Ceylon's
foreign exchange shortage would continue to be acute owirng to the poor
prospects for Ceylon's major export crops. Indications of aic. by member
countries at that meeting suggested that commitments in 1969 would be some-
what higher than the 1968 commitments of $53 million. Aid disbursements
from these countries in 1969 are also expected to be greater than the $46
million level achieved in 1968.
21.       Over the longer term Ceylon will continue to need substantial inflows
of foreign assistance. In addition to falling prices for the three major
export crops (tea, rubber and coconuts), heavy debt repayments fall due in the
next few years. This means that debt service could well rise above 20% of
export earnings between now and 1973, the exact level depending on the amount
and terms of future external borrowing. To look beyond 1973 is difficult but
with present export prospects, it is unlikely that debt service will fall much
below 20% if the average terms of aid remain at present levels and if Ceylon
is to obtain the necessary gross inflows of foreign assistance. It is there-
fore inmortant that Ceylon continue and intensify efforts to stimulate non-
traditional export earnings, including tourism. In this connection a further
increase last month in the exchange rate governing nearly half of all payments
transactions, including these newer exports, should have positive results.
22.       Ceylon's recent economic performance has shown what good economic
policies can accomplish, even in the face of unfavorable export price
trends.  Provided that present standards of economic management continue,
I consider Ceylon creditworthy for limited amounts of Bank lending.
PART VI - OOMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEtNT
23.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - REGOIMMENDATION
24.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Attachments                                        Robert S. McNamara
President
July 2, 1969



