                       Document of
                    The World Bank




                                                        Report No: 36558

        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
     (IDA-29080 TF-28663 IDA-29081 IDA-29082 TF-28317)

                        ON THREE

INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (IDA) CREDITS

                           AND A

     GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY (GEF) GRANT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 28.9 MILLION

                          TO THE

              GOVERNMENT OF TANZANIA

                         FOR THE

 LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                          (LVEMP)




                       June 27, 2006

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective )

                        Currency Unit = Tanzania Shillings
                               US$ 1 = 1100 Tanzania Shillings

                             FISCAL YEAR
                            July 1   June 30

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AM        Aide Memoires
BOD       Biological Oxygen Demand
BMU       Beach Management Unit
CAPs      Community Action Plans
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs      Community Based Organizations
CIGs      Community Interest Groups
CP        Cleaner Production
CPUE      Catch per Unit Effort
DANIDA    Danish International Development Agency
DFID      Department for International Development, United Kingdom
DDT       Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane
EAC       East African Community
ECOVIC    EAC Organization for Management of Lake Victoria
ELCOM     Estuary and Lake Computer Model
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
EU        European Union
FAO       United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
FLT       Fish Levy Trust
FOB       Free on Board
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GoK       Government of Kenya
GoT       Government of Tanzania
GoU       Government of Uganda
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
IEG       Independent Evaluation Group of the World Bank
IFMP      Integrated Fisheries Management Plan
ILMP      Integrated Lake Management Project
KARI      Kenyan Agricultural Research Institute
LVBC      Lake Victoria Basin Commission
LVDP      Lake Victoria Development Program

LVEMP      Lake Victoria Environmental Project
LVFO       Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization
LVFRP      Lake Victoria Fisheries Research Project
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MSY        Maximum Sustainable Yield
MTR        Mid-Term Review
NEMA       National Environmental Management Agency
NGO        Non Governmental Organization
OD/OP      Operational Directive/Policy
PEAP       Poverty Eradication Action Plan
PIC        Project Implementation Committee
PMU/PIU    Project Management/Implementation Unit
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
RPSC       Regional Policy Steering Committee
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SIDA       Swedish International Development Agency
SLM        Sustainable Land Management
TDA        Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis
USD        United States Dollar
WWTP       Wastewater Treatment Plan


                       Vice President:  Gobind T. Nankani
                     Country Director   Judy O'Connor
                      Sector Manager    Karen Brooks
                    Task Team Leader    Ladisy Chengula

                                          TANZANIA
    LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT (LVEMP)


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            41
Annex 8. Summary of Regional and Transboundary Related Issues                    43
Annex 9. Project Timeline and Structure - Figures                                51
Annex 10. List of Persons Contacted                                              53

Project ID: P046837                                                  Project Name: TZ-Lake Victoria Environment (IDA)
Global Supplemental ID: P046872 (Fully Blended)                      Supp. Name: TZ: LAKE VICTORIA ENV. PROJ. (GEF)
Team Leader: Ladisy Komba Chengula                                   TL Unit: AFTS2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: TZ-Lake Victoria Environment (IDA)                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-29080; TF-28663;
                                                                                                     IDA-29081; IDA-29082
   Country/Department: TANZANIA                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

       Sector/subsector: Animal production (25%); Central government administration (25%); General water,
                            sanitation and flood protection sector (20%); Other social services (20%); Tertiary education
                            (10%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Water resource management (P); Pollution management and environmental
                            health (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
          PCD: 12/28/1992                                      Effective: 03/05/1997                03/05/1997
     Appraisal: 06/18/1996                                         MTR: 03/01/1999                  03/01/1999
     Approval: 07/30/1996                                       Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2005



   Supplemental Name: TZ: LAKE VICTORIA ENV. PROJ. (GEF)                          L/C/TF Number: TF-28317

       Sector/subsector: Animal production (25%); Central government administration
                            (25%); General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (20%);
                            Other social services (20%); Tertiary education (10%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Water resource management (P); Pollution
                            management and environmental health (P); Environmental policies
                            and institutions (P)

  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
  GEF Council: 04/01/1996                                      Effective: 03/05/1997                03/05/1997
     Appraisal: 06/18/1996                                         MTR: 03/01/1999                  03/01/1999
     Approval: 07/30/1996                                       Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2005

   Borrower/Implementing Agency:           GOVT OF TANZANIA/VICE PRESIDENT'S OFFICE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Judy M. O'Connor                               James Adams
Sector Manager:                 Karen Mcconnell Brooks                         Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader at ICR:             Ladisy Chengula                                Graeme Donovan
ICR Primary Author:             Arati Belle


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                                           Rating

                           Outcome:        S

                      Sustainability:    L
   Institutional Development Impact:     SU
                 Bank Performance:       S
            Borrower Performance:        S


                                                  QAG (if available)          ICR
                                Quality at Entry:                             S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes


The overall implementation performance (outputs) is Satisfactory, and the achievement of the development
objectives (outcomes) is Moderately Satisfactory.

The sustainability is Moderately Likely. The Institutional Development Impact is Substantial.

The overall Bank Performance is Moderately Satisfactory and the overall Borrower Performance is
Moderately Satisfactory.

The Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
_____________________________________________________________________________


3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background and Context: The Tanzania Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
(TZ-LVEMP) was prepared during the 1994-97 period, and implemented as one of three interlinked fully
blended projects financed by credits (International Development Association (IDA)) and a grant (Global
Environment Facility (GEF)) from March 1997 to December 2005. The three projects together sought to
address the issues of the lake in a regionally integrated way. They were, thus, conceived as contributions to
a regional program (based on the August 5, 1994 Tripartite Agreement) implemented as three national
projects in Tanzania, Kenya, and Uganda, with common objectives and initially identical components.
Given the regional nature of the program and interlinkage of the three projects, the LVEMP Implementation
Completion Reports (ICRs) for Tanzania, Uganda, and Kenya should be considered individually and in
conjunction with each other, in order to understand both the national particularities in performance and the
overall outcomes of the investment. The project assessed by this ICR was the first phase of a long-term
program.

The observed project design was necessary at that time due to an absence of regional lending instruments
for IDA and lack of institutions to implement a regional approach. The three nations recognized the
importance of the Lake Victoria ecosystem as a vast shared resource with great potential for economic
growth, but one that was under immense environmental stress. Economically it is very important; the
fisheries sector is a significant driver of growth, and water supply, biodiversity, transport, and
hydro-energy from the lake underpin vital economic activities. Conversely, the lake, if allowed to degrade,
will impose substantial economic and environmental liabilities on the countries and communities of the
watershed. Enhanced environmental management of Lake Victoria is, therefore, a key element of a sound
program of growth, poverty reduction, and proper management of risks.




                                                      - 2 -

Lake Victoria is large and, in general, shallow. The lake depends chiefly on rainfall for its inflow, and its
extensive watershed covers some of the poorest parts in the three riparian nations. When the projects were
prepared, the threats to the lake's ecosystem were understood primarily to be diminishing biodiversity,
over-fishing, infestation of aquatic weeds (especially water hyacinth), pollution, and eutrophication. The
transboundary nature and rich biodiversity of the lake were recognized, but detailed scientific and
socioeconomic knowledge about the resource was insufficient to support proper management. For example,
the inventory of flora and fauna was incomplete and not current. The level of catch consistent with
maintenance of the stock of Nile Perch was not known. Infestation of water hyacinth was visible, but the
response of the species to various measures of control was unknown. The detailed status of quality of the
water was not known; nor were major sources of pollution. Finally, the level of the lake has been observed
to vary over time as recorded in historic statistics, but detailed knowledge of the underlying hydrology was
not sufficient. Moreover, national and regional institutions and capacity relevant for management of Lake
Victoria were weak at the outset of the project, and presented challenges during implementation.

The project was designed in a participatory manner with broadly ranging consultation of stakeholders at the
local, national and regional levels. Formulation of the project required multiple negotiations and
compromise; between scientists and public servants, between advocates of environmental conservation and
those of managed growth, between national politicians with short time horizons and development partners
seeking a longer term perspective, and between and among national neighbors with a recent history of
tension. The objectives and design that emerged from this negotiation enjoyed sufficient consensus to move
ahead, but also attracted antipathy of those who did not see their own objectives fully reflected. During the
course of implementation, and even in assessment in this ICR, strongly held and conflicting opinions have
been the order of the day. The ICR team has sought to assess the project not according to what might have
been desired by any among the wide range of stakeholders, critics, and advocates, but by what was stated
in the project documents and actually accomplished. Due to the vintage of the project, it is assessed
according to the four point scale. The text indicates application of the modifiers introduced under the
current six point scale where relevant.

Objectives: In light of the circumstances noted above, the objectives the Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Project (LVEMP1) were "to (i) provide the necessary information to improve
management of the lake ecosystem, (ii) establish mechanisms of cooperative management by the three
countries, (iii) identify and demonstrate practical, self-sustaining remedies, while simultaneously (iv)
building capacity for ecosystem management". Co-financing from the GEF helped integrate
transboundary environmental issues into the design and provide emphasis on them. As noted above, the
project was fully blended.




                                                       - 3 -

Assessment of Project Objectives and Design: The project was the first of its kind in the region, with
aims and objectives that reflected the nations' developmental priorities, regional objectives, and global
goals. Preparatory activities particularly emphasized community participation and gender issues. The
objectives as stated above were consistent with the country-based assistance strategy (CAS) and with the
global priorities within the mandate of GEF International Waters program. Within the fully blended project,
GEF priorities were focused on transboundary aspects such as fisheries (biology and conservation)
research, water quality monitoring, capacity building in the riparian universities, support for policy and
coordination, and water hyacinth control, with some attention to aquaculture and sustainable use of
wetlands. The design reflected realism with regard to the time frame required for sound management of the
lake, and was phased. The design recognized the need for generation of knowledge, creation of new
institutions, and strengthening of capacity. The objectives of the project were sound and the process of
preparation appropriate. Primary emphasis was placed on activities related to fisheries, which were
allocated 41 percent of the funds. The remaining funds were spread over the other activities in the initial
design. Questions have been raised with regard to the proper balance of emphasis on the various elements
of the agenda, but the lack of information and inherent uncertainties associated with the various risks to the
lake made a priori determination of allocations to the various activities difficult. Given the subsequent
increased importance of fishing, growth in the catch, and urgency regarding management of the fishery, one
cannot with certainty argue that an alternative allocation of resources among activities would have been
superior.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were stated broadly and not changed during the course of implementation. Emphasis within
each of the components changed over time, but within the broadly stated goals for the project. The
component level objectives were fluid during the course of the project, and underwent change following
shifts in emphasis and focus at key milestones (mid-term, the 2003 stock-taking and in the final phase).

3.3 Original Components:
In the joint Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), dated June 1996, the project had the following components (The
overall project cost for all three countries of USD 77.7 million was allocated as indicated):
1) Fisheries Management/ Establishment of the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization (LVFO) (USD 2.28
million)
2) Fisheries Research, including four sub-components, Fish Biology and Biodiversity Conservation,
Aquaculture, Socioeconomics, Database (USD 13.33 million)
3) Fisheries Extension, Policies and Laws, including micro-projects (USD 14.09 million)
4) Fisheries Levy Trust (USD 2.03 million)
5) Water Hyacinth Control (USD 8.31 million)
6) Water Quality and Ecosystem Management, including one core project, Management of Eutrophication,
pilot studies on Sedimentation and Hydraulic Conditions and the construction of a Model of Water
Circulation and Quality in the Lake (USD 9.6 million)
7) Industrial and Municipal Waste Management, including one core project, Management of Industrial and
Municipal Effluents, pilots on Integrated Tertiary Industrial and Municipal Effluent Treatment, each, and a
component for Priority Waste Management Investments (USD 9.89 million)
8) Land Use and Wetland Management, including two core projects, Management of Pollution Loading
(addressing non-point sources of pollution) and Buffering Capacity of Wetlands and four pilots -
Assessment of the Role of Agro-chemicals in Pollution, Integrated Soil and Water Conservation,
Sustainable Use of Wetland Products, and Afforestation (USD 14.1 million)
9) Institutional Framework, including Support to Riparian Universities and the Coordinating Secretariat
(USD 3.98 million)
Please see Section 10, for more details on the components.



                                                     - 4 -

3.4 Revised Components:
Due to significant delays in the start-up of the program discussed below, at the mid-term review (MTR)
many of the components and sub-components were revised. Work programs were adjusted to facilitate
implementation within the existing institutions and according to the mandates of those institutions. This
revision entailed somewhat lower expectations regarding cross cutting issues and coordination, but also
freed up implementation to proceed within the components. The scope of several activities and components
was narrowed, but still within the overall objectives of the program. In the design, activities were
differentiated according to whether they were lake-wide or geographically focused pilots, an approach that
was largely maintained during implementation with adjustment as the components were revised. Changes
within the components created some confusion regarding the links between the components and overall
effort, and the relatively weak coordination among components did little to restore focus on strategic
objectives. Despite a tendency toward insularity within the components, cross cutting issues were
important; e.g., the cross-cutting issue of community participation was overseen by an officer in the
Secretariat, and this was a suitable arrangement. The scope of the micro projects was expanded beyond
fishing communities to include communities in the catchments with good result. The Industrial and
Municipal Waste Management component was subsumed into the Water Quality component as was the
management of the Pollution Loading (non-point sources of pollution) sub-component. As a result, the
component became large and unwieldy. It was functionally oriented towards research while its mandate
included management of both point and non-point pollution sources. These changes were largely a
reorganization of the components and did not translate into a restructuring of the project with different
objectives or sub-objectives. The final list of components and sub-components in Tanzania at the end of the
project, with major changes indicated, is listed in Section 10, table 1.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Moderately Satisfactory. LVEMP charted new ground both in the countries and in the Bank. It was a
regional project addressing transboundary concerns during a time when little regional cooperation existed
between the riparian countries and few regional instruments and institutions were available. The project
design was consistent with CAS and country developmental priorities and the preparation was highly
consultative. The SAR presents a fairly clear design that is technically sound and describes the path of the
overall program. Importantly, its approach was based on the Lake Basin ecosystem perspective and it
included the main thematic areas addressing the key environmental issues afflicting the Lake. This helped
lay the basis for the subsequent development of a common vision for the management of the transboundary
resource. The first phase emphasized research and collection of data. Critics have argued that greater
weight should have been accorded, even in the first phase, to creation of environmental management tools
and their application in management that would have achieved a measurable change in the environmental
indicators of the lake. Those who hold this view recognize the required sequencing; i.e., that knowledge
has to precede decisions based on the knowledge, but they argue that more use should have been made of
the knowledge. The design was weak in specifying appropriate strategies for translation of data into
relevant information and outputs usable for operational management and solutions for the lake as a whole.

The design was optimistic in scope, with a large number of components and requiring coordination between
a variety of institutions in each country and between and among countries. The plethora of implementing
agencies and activities resulted in complicated budgeting and accounting systems. Capacity to implement
was weak, and enhancement of capacity was one of the objectives of the program. Full attainment of
objectives would have required not only competent implementation of each of the components in each
country, but also regular sharing of findings among components both within and among countries. The
structure established (national coordinators and a regional secretariat) was too weak initially to perform
adequately, and the shared strategic focus took a long time to emerge. The project did not include a



                                                     - 5 -

technical policy and steering committee at the national level specifically mandated to monitor progress on
technical issues and ensure coordination among the participating ministries and institutes. The design did
not include a logframe because that was not customary at the time. The project very much needed an
alternative to the log frame; i.e., a practical guide to action and clarity on the results expected. Key
performance indicators were established late in the implementation (in 2004) during an attempt to retrofit a
log-frame.

On several relevant dimensions of project design; i.e., consistency of the objectives with the CAS, technical
coverage and priorities, and consultation with relevant stakeholders, the design was very strong. On the
critical dimension of readiness for implementation it was weak, and this weakness was costly for the
performance of the project. Nevertheless, changes introduced at the MTR allowed implementation to
accelerate within the components and funds to flow. The changes did not entail a major restructuring of the
project or revision of the initial design, and the project was after the MTR largely able to make up for lost
time. Because a number of dimensions of design were strong and the deficiency in readiness for
implementation was remedied at the MTR, the quality at entry is assessed as being satisfactory, but
moderately so.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall implementation performance (outputs) was Satisfactory, and the achievement of the
development objectives (outcomes) was Moderately Satisfactory.

This evaluation assesses the project's performance against the objectives for the first phase:

Provide the necessary information to improve management of the lake ecosystem
The project supported many knowledge-building activities that advanced the understanding of the Lake
Ecosystem, particularly in the areas of biodiversity of fish (establishing a baseline), levels and sources of
pollution, fish stocks, and hydrology. Great emphasis was placed on data collection and less on analysis,
collation and dissemination, although a substantial body of work was taken to the stage suitable for
publication. Because the scientific challenge is enormous and ongoing, many findings are provisional.
Among the most important that were not known at the outset of the project are the following:
l Biodiversity of fish has declined, but many species thought to be extinct in the watershed are in fact
     present in refugia in satellite lakes.
l A sustainable catch of Nile Perch is probably within the range of 220,000 tons annually (trawl
     surveys) to 350,000 tons annually (acoustic survey).
l Point sources of pollution are important locally and have effects on public health, but are not the
     largest sources of phosphorus and nitrogen exacerbating eutrophication of the lake.
l Eutrophication is primarily due to nitrogen and phosphorus from atmospheric deposition, although the
     relative contribution of the catchment to it is yet unknown.
l The lake level has varied significantly over time and is highly sensitive to small changes in the balance
     of inflows and outflows.
l Constructed wetlands can be effective measures to enhance the contribution that natural wetlands make
     toward water quality.
l Water hyacinth can be effectively contained in the lake through biological control (weevils), but
     weevils are less effective in the rivers that flow into the lake.

Establish mechanisms of cooperative management by the three countries
The three countries made considerable progress in advancing the regional perspective in both planning and



                                                        - 6 -

implementation. The Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization was operationalized, although it requires
strengthening. Fisheries sector frameworks were harmonized and regional information exchange was
strengthened. Regional synthesis reports were prepared and experiences on catchment management were
shared. During the course of implementation of the project, the East African Community (EAC) was
re-established and recognized coordination of activities in Lake Victoria as among its priorities. Although
the role of the EAC was not foreseen during preparation of the project and required some adjustment in
understanding of responsibilities, it has been an important breakthrough in facilitating shared management.
The EAC passed the Lake Victoria Protocol and, with its ratification by member states in November 2004,
created the Lake Victoria Basin Commission (LVBC) to be based in Kisumu. Subsequently, a common
Lake Victoria Vision was developed by the partner states with extensive consultation at the community
level. Through the EAC and Lake Victoria Basin Commission, it is expected that the riparian states will be
in a much stronger position in the future to act on the enhanced knowledge about the lake by agreeing on
common enforcement of standards and regulations, some of which are now on the books but unevenly
enforced.

Identify and demonstrate practical, self-sustaining remedies
The project contributed significantly in establishing and strengthening co-management of natural resources.
The participatory approach combined with micro-projects proved to be successful and cost-effective while
increasing local livelihoods and empowering communities. Lessons learned were relatively well captured in
reports. Many of the microprojects remain active without incremental funding. Not all of the micro
projects selected by communities had direct relevance to the environmental agenda of the project, but a
broad menu including service delivery was foreseen in the SAR. Water hyacinth infestation was reduced to
non-nuisance levels through introduction of the weevils, and the symbiotic relationship between the insect
and plant populations provides biological sustainability; i.e., when the hyacinth expands, the weevil
population grows to bring it back into check. Work of the fish quality laboratory resulted in lifting of the
temporary EU ban on import of fish from the lake, and the quality laboratory remains functioning. Better
land management in the catchment and wetlands contributed to the reduction of silt and pollution entering
the lake but could have benefited from improved targeting through stronger links with relevant ongoing
research. The pilots and investments under the industrial and municipal effluent management, however,
were problematical. A pilot to test an artificial wetland for municipal treat of effluents at Butuja was
constructed, but could not be fully tested due to delayed completion of the waste water treatment plant at
Mwanza, which was operationally linked to the pilot. The lessons could not therefore be fully absorbed or
scaled up. Municipal and industrial treatment facilities planned with sources of funding outside the project
were either delayed or deferred, and hence the interventions to address industrial and municipal pollution
under the project were not successful. Untreated municipal and industrial waste continues to flow into the
lake.

Building capacity for ecosystem management
Much activity in the project was oriented towards capacity building. Important experience was gained in
scientific research and resource management, while technical skills were upgraded and the implementing
institutions were equipped. Staff were trained in advanced degree courses (M.Sc. and Ph.D.) and others
received on-the-job training and participated in short courses. Capacity building and awareness raising
campaigns targeted local communities through a variety of instruments (use of local media, training days,
workshops, study tours etc.) A Cleaner Production (CP) program was launched and provided useful lessons
in industrial waste management. Capacity building efforts were uncoordinated and opportunistic, rather
than based on a well-defined strategy addressing identified needs. Future efforts should be better targeted
and impacts of capacity building should be assessed.

Tanzania was able to keep to a steady pace in implementation following changes made after the mid-term


                                                      - 7 -

review. The implementation, however, was weakly guided by a strategic orientation toward results and
instead achieved sequential incremental progress. The lack of strategic focus impeded prioritization and
fed insularity within the components. Activities under the project were weakly linked to the ongoing work
of the relevant ministries. Lack of emphasis on cost effectiveness, efficiency, and consistent quality
assurance reflected weakness in technical and administrative management. This was a fully blended
IDA/GEF project, with shared objectives for both sources of funding. One particular focus of the GEF
support was the elaboration of a strategic framework for a large program of investment, particularly on
municipal waste management and soil conservation that has not resulted to date, although substantial
investment was not foreseen in this phase of the project. The project's lack of success in addressing direct
pollution from point sources diminished achievement of goals for water quality. Despite some diminution
in accomplishments due to difficulties in implementation, the project is judged to be satisfactory in meeting
outputs, and marginally satisfactory in meeting objectives stated for the first phase.

Please see Annex 8 for a Summary of Regional and Transboundary Related Issues.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Please see Figures 1 and 2 in Annex 9 for the Timeline of the Project and Overall Project Structure. Also
please see section 10 for details on component objectives, as conceived in the SAR, and outputs.

The following section summarizes the various component outputs. The big components were fisheries,
water quality monitoring (including industrial and municipal waste management) and water hyacinth
Control.

Fisheries Management
Satisfactory. Support to co-management has improved fisheries management structures or Beach
Management Units (BMUs) with local communities being active in revenue collection and in curbing use of
illegal fishing equipment, reducing the cost of fisheries enforcement activities to the Government. The
component achieved notable success in harmonizing the fisheries legislative and regulatory frameworks
among the three countries. Fisheries management has contributed to major sector policies including the new
Fisheries Act (2003), and related regulations. Agreement among the riparian countries on sustainable
catch, particularly for Nile Perch, and mechanisms to enforce it will form part of the core agenda for the
second phase.

Fisheries Research
Marginally Satisfactory. A fish biodiversity and biology baseline was established. A key finding was the
discovery of species, thought to be extinct in Lake Victoria, in the satellite lakes. The component suffered
from inadequate prioritization and targeting of research efforts. Various outputs were completed but they
did not translate into specific strategies or plans (for instance, a strategy for biodiversity conservation the in
satellite lakes). Information was poorly accessible and some key reports and books remain to be published.
There was also a lack of systematic effort to disseminate key research results in an accessible form to
communities through the fisheries management structures.

Water Quality and Ecosystem Management
Marginally Unsatisfactory. The component's activities resulted in increased knowledge of water quality,
hydrodynamics, primary sources of nutrients, and factors contributing to water hyacinth occurrence. The
main water quality characteristics of the lake have been established. A monitoring network was established,
which helped identify the chief source of pollution in the Lake, viz. atmospheric deposition. Various
inventories related to pollution were developed but are not linked to management plans. The merged
component (including Water Quality, Industrial and Municipal Waste Management, and Management of



                                                       - 8 -

Pollution Loading) became overly focused on data collection with inadequate emphasis on identifying
actions to address the critical pollution problems in the lake. The activities in tertiary treatment of effluents
(primarily constructed wetlands) were not successful and the planned upgrade of the wastewater treatment
in Bukoba and Mwanza did not result. Although some progress was made on developing modeling tools
(calibrated hydrodynamic module of the Lake Victoria Water Model and Water Quality and Water
Hyacinth modules), the introduction of comprehensive lake modeling presented a challenge exceeding
existing capacity, and has been only partially accomplished.

Water Hyacinth Control
Highly Satisfactory. The component sought to enhance capacity to control hyacinth, but once a workable
solution was identified, moved beyond the more modest initial objective to apply the knowledge. There has
been a remarkable decrease (85 percent) in the water hyacinth infestation in the Lake, which is down to
non-nuisance levels.

Wetlands Management
Marginally Satisfactory. Weak capacity and the lack of clear understanding of the objectives of the
component constrained implementation. A baseline on the majority of the wetlands was established, with
many scientific outputs, and pilot activities involving communities were conducted to demonstrate the
sustainable use of wetland products. The data collected on the wetlands buffering capacity was not used
for modeling as planned, as the knowledge gained on the chosen model was very limited. The information
gained through the training and studies was not fully transferred to the parent ministry, indicating weak
mainstreaming.

Integrated Soil and Water Conservation
Satisfactory. Despite the relatively small size of this component, much was achieved in the course of its
implementation. The project facilitated gathering of baseline information and contributed to community
awareness on appropriate environmental conservation and the development of land use plans. A survey and
mapping of present land use/cover and soil erosion hazard was done. The micro-catchment approach, based
on village action plans, was used while emphasizing the individual resource user's needs in developing
activities for soil and water conservation. It was shown that sustainable management of land contributes
significantly to raising production (by 100 percent in maize and close to 200 percent in paddy, per ha), but
adoption rates are low primarily due the high initial costs and uncertainty of benefits, the latter due in part
to insufficient awareness on the part of farmers.

Catchment Afforestation
Satisfactory. The component successfully relied on approaches to conserve in-situ forest areas and
establishment of commercial nurseries for promoting on-farm afforestation, with a high survival rate (79
percent) through collaboration with communities. Significant outputs resulted, even though the activities
were affected by the drought. The component also implemented a strategy for phasing out of the subsidy
initially associated with the seedling scheme, which has had a positive impact on the sustainability of the
established nurseries. Local benefits (reduction of wild fires and improvements in water quality) have been
observed and noted by the beneficiaries.

Capacity Building - Support to University of Dar es Salaam, Faculty of Aquatic Sciences
Satisfactory. The component helped establish the Faculty of Aquatic Sciences, improving facilities for
research, supporting a stronger research agenda on Lake Victoria, and increasing the capacity of its staff
and students. Two new degree programs for undergraduates were developed and delivered.




                                                      - 9 -

Institutional Framework - Support to Regional and National Secretariat
Marginally Satisfactory. The regional secretary, responsible to coordinating the Regional Policy Steering
Committee (RPSC) meetings and other regional activities, was also the national secretary, and divided his
attention between these responsibilities. The secretary's dual functions limited his attention to each of the
areas of responsibility. Nonetheless, implementation in Tanzania followed a smoother path than in the other
two countries, despite some delays in accountability, flow of funds, and procurement. The secretariat was
based in Dar es Salaam, while the activities of the project were ongoing in Mwanza, and this created
challenges in communication and management. The secretariat was closed at the end of the project because
the institutional structure agreed upon for the future does not require the regional secretariat. The ICR
mission had difficulty attaining information that should have been available through the secretariat, raising
questions about the quality of the handover.

Micro-Projects and Community Participation.
Highly Satisfactory. The activities led to increased capacity in the communities, enabling them to improve
resource management, with many positive environmental externalities as well as contributing to improved
livelihoods. The project targeted service delivery among the Lake basin communities by implementing a
range of demand driven projects in health, water, education, sanitation, access roads, afforestation and
fisheries sectors. Micro-projects provided strong incentives for communities to interact and implement a
range of solutions. A total of 90 projects were initiated out of which 85 were operating as project closure.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An ERR was not estimated in the SAR, as is often the practice in projects emphasizing capacity
strengthening and institutional reform. The section aims to provide some indicative socio-economic data
and a discussion of the observed benefits, corresponding to the potential benefits noted in the SAR.

Among the gross benefits expected in the SAR were avoided losses related to decline in fishery as a result
of over-fishing and deterioration in water quality, impacts of water hyacinth infestation, poor quality of
water supply for domestic and animal uses, and continued degradation of wetlands.

Fisheries contribute about three percent of the GDP of the riparian countries. Fish harvest for the whole
lake is currently estimated to be between 400,000 to 600,000 metric tons (all species) worth USD 400 to
600 millions annually. Estimations of gross employment in this sector range from 500,000 people in
Tanzania (Odongkara et al., 2005) including fishers, fish traders, and fish processors and net menders, to
about 2.6 million people (National Fisheries Synthesis Report). The fishery export is currently it is
estimated at USD 270 million. The total cumulative exports of Nile perch fish and fishery products from
Lake Victoria for the last nine years (1995 to 2004) was about 320,000 tons valued at USD 704 million
(F.O.B value) of which the Fisheries Division received at total of USD 32.94 million as royalty.

There was a decline in values received from exports due to the import bans imposed by European markets
in 1999 and 2002 because of concerns that fish and fishery products were contaminated by pesticides and
that overfishing would be exacerbated by the implementation of slot size 50-85 cm in the fish processing
plants, respectively. While the ban was in effect, exports were directed to markets with lower prices than in
the EU. The project helped implement various management measures and improve quality assurance to
address these issues. A rough estimation of the avoided loss, in the period 2000-2005, due to the lifting of
the bans is about 24 million, while the cost of upgrading the fish quality laboratory was in the range of
USD 500,000 and the entire fisheries management component (during the life of the project) was USD 16.3
million.

Domestic consumption estimates vary considerably from a likely USD 100 million to as much as USD 600



                                                     - 10 -

million per annum. Fish prices have been stable during the period of late nineties and early 2000's at
around one dollar per kilo. FAO data from the period 1978-01 indicate that contribution of fish protein to
the Tanzanian population has remained stable since in the 1990's and early 2000's, at the level observed in
1979, after an increasing rate in the 1980s.

Data have not been collected for a sufficient time to estimate definitively the Maximum Sustainable Yield
(MSY) for various species and there remain disagreements between Tanzania and Kenya on the one hand,
and Uganda, on the other, regarding these estimates. The Tanzanian National Fisheries Synthesis Report
estimates MSY for Nile Perch for the Lake to be about 348,184 tons from the acoustic survey and 220,000
tons from the trawl surveys (1999 ­ 2002 surveys).

The SAR estimated that the wide-range of direct costs on the lake community as a result of the spread of
water hyacinth, including those arising from transportation (delays in transport, increased operation costs,
loss in fishing time, increased difficulty collecting water, blockage of intakes and loss of production at
urban and industrial water supply systems), to about USD 6-10 million per annum. The water hyacinth
infestation has been reduced to non-nuisance levels. Indicative avoided costs range between more than
25-40 million in the period 2000-2005 for the whole Lake. The cost of the water hyacinth control activities
was 10 million over the life of the project. (Please see Annex 3)

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return was not estimated in the SAR.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The overall rating for institutional development impact is substantial.

Institutional development was one of the objectives of the project and nearly all the components' activities
contributed to it. Significant achievements included the shift in fisheries management towards
co-management and a rich experience gained in community based management in the catchment. BMUs
and community common interest groups (CIGs) were established providing effective service delivery as
well as promoting community participation and empowerment. Fisheries regulatory and policy frameworks
were strengthened and harmonized across three countries, although enforcement remains a challenge for the
future. The project helped the countries in handling the EU ban on fish exports due to quality concerns by
strengthening the quality assurance processes. The project contributed to reducing the significant capacity
gaps through training; e.g., 3 PhDs and 25 M.Sc. both locally and abroad in a wide range of disciplines
including fisheries science, environmental management, and information systems among others. Numerous
others were trained on-the-job and through short courses. Better trained personnel contributed toward
stronger institutions. The Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization was created. When the EAC was
re-established and became active in the Lake Victoria program, the activities under the project helped in
formulation of the Lake Victoria Protocol and subsequent creation of the Lake Victoria Basin Commission.


The impact of the institutional development could have been greater had the training been undertaken in a
more strategic and focused way, and the activities supported under the project integrated more effectively
and at an earlier stage into the day to day work of the relevant ministries. For component specific details,
please see section 10.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Key factors influencing implementation include: (i) Uneven performance of the other two partners and


                                                      - 11 -

limited ability to influence that performance. Progress in Kenya was stalled first by problems with flows of
funds and subsequently by a level of performance insufficient to justify extension of the IDA credit.
Approval of Uganda's supplemental credit was stalled in Parliament for approximately one year. Activities
that required shared funding; e.g., synchronized collection of data, suffered from the varying pace of
implementation among the partners. (ii) The falling lake level, by over two meters since 2003, was caused
partly by the prolonged drought and partly due to over-abstraction of water for hydro-power generation by
one of the partner countries. The falling level had serious impacts on the fisheries and wetlands. Assets of
the BMU's (fences, jetties etc) were no longer usable and the spawning grounds were affected. Many
wetlands are threatened. The overall ecological and economic impact of this issue has not been estimated
but is considered to be large. The project provided a forum for the partners to recognize and begin to
address the declining lake level, but avoidance of the decline was not within the control of the Tanzanian
government or implementing agency. (iii) The drought also affected implementation of catchment based
activities in the soil and water conservation and catchment afforestation components. (iv) The ban on
fisheries due to fish quality concerns by the EU, the main market for the commercial Nile Perch, led to
additional focus on quality assurance. The ban was occasioned by a concern that was outside the control
of the government or implementing agency. The efforts by the project to strengthen quality assurance
resulted in the ban being lifted.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Given the scale of this project in terms of the number of implementing agencies, both management and
mainstreaming were concerns. The lack of a national policy and technical steering committee or closer
oversight by senior representatives of the implementation agencies impeded prioritization, strategic focus,
and coordination. The lack of a distinct pathway for feeding the outputs and results of the project into the
mainstream functioning of the implementing agency(ies) was significant and could have been remedied.
For example, work on the tertiary municipal waste treatment pilot did not result in plans for scale-up by
local governments of the riparian districts (or even the maintenance of that pilot for demonstration). Factors
subject to governmental control acted on the positive side of implementation, as well as the negative.
Cooperation between the three countries, with free inter-country movement of project implementation staff
facilitated the harmonization achieved by the project and enhanced its regional status. The revival of the
East African Community (EAC) and the creation of the LVBC cemented the regional linkages, and these
outcomes were clearly due to efforts by the riparian governments.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Two and half years were required to establish, equip and staff the project. This long start-up period cut into
the time for implementation and necessitated a refocusing and narrowing of the project activities. Indicators
and targets were not clearly specified, with the result that tracking of progress became ad-hoc and
subjective. No explicit mechanism was put in place to ensure that the results from the project were
mainstreamed into the long-term plans of the respective agencies. Project coordinators represented the
mainline agencies but the degree of their interaction and communication with project staff varied
considerably across components. Delays in accountability of funds were a universal problem that continued
throughout the project. While the project called for an integrated approach, the various components
established only weak linkages and operated largely within their own spheres. Fiduciary aspects were in
general effective. With sufficient prescience on the part of the implementing agencies, these factors could
have been remedied and would have much strengthened the success of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The appraisal estimated project cost for Tanzania was USD 22.6 million, with external financing, including
an IDA credit of USD 10.1 million and a GEF grant of USD 10.3 million for the initial period of
1997-2002. Two supplementary credits were approved, one for USD 5.0 million in 2001 and the second



                                                     - 12 -

one for USD 3.5 million in 2004 bringing the total IDA credits to USD 18.6 million. Supplemental
financing was justified by the need to coordinate the timing of ongoing project activities with that of the
other two partner countries (The slower pace of implementation and disbursement in Kenya and Uganda
resulted residual credit amounts in those countries at the point when Tanzania had expended all the initial
resources). Actual Expenditure at the close of the project in December 2005 was USD 30.4 million. As
work programs within components were revised, resources were reallocated between and among them. For
example, the secretariat was originally budgeted for about 5 percent of the cost, and ultimately absorbed
around 15 percent of funds. Please see tables in Annex 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Moderately Likely. In assessing sustainability of the project, the ICR team has proceeded with an
understanding that much of the investment falls into the category of public goods and services with an
ongoing and appropriate role for public expenditure. Sustainability under these circumstances requires
evidence of continued commitment by government to allocate the needed public funds, an institutional
foundation to assure that activities that warrant continuation will be carried on, and public awareness
sufficient to secure continued public support through the electoral process. In this context the first phase
interventions are likely to be sustainable due to the following:

Financial sustainability - The Government has made a commitment within the Medium Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF) to include activities initiated under the project in the budget projections and programs
for its mainline agencies. The Government has further indicated under the consolidated Tanzania Joint
Assistance Strategy supported by a consortium of partners that Lake Victoria will receive support.
Tanzania's external assistance is increasingly "on budget," i.e., reflected in the MTEF, and treatment of
activities in Lake Victoria in this way signals continued commitment. Further, the Government has
committed USD 1 million as its contribution to the Bridging Phase to continue core activities from the first
phase prior to the period when the second phase of external funding becomes available. Policy and
decision-makers increasingly support the integrated management of the lake testifying to the recognition of
the public importance of the longer-term program. The shift from the financial basis of the first phase
(largely project-based and not fully included in the MTEF) to that of the second phase will entail careful
assessment of which activities to continue, which to expand, and which to wind down. That assessment is
not yet complete, and when it is, not all activities will be retained. Nonetheless, a strong basis for financial
sustainability of the overall program is in place within the budgetary framework and agreed modes of
external assistance to Tanzania.

Institutional sustainability - The project enhanced institutions and generated momentum towards an
integrated approach for the management of Lake Victoria and its catchment. Political commitment has been
increased through information and creation of awareness among a wide section of stakeholders. The
participatory approach and co-management of resources followed by the project, while time consuming to
establish, contribute to sustainable results, especially when combined with adequate regulatory and
monitoring mechanisms. The strong move towards regional cooperation will help strengthen planning and
joint management activities. The Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization is in place and functioning, although
it needs strengthening. A decision has been taken to form a comparable organization for water, both
quality and level. The Lake Victoria Protocol is ratified by the three riparian states. The EAC has formed
the Lake Victoria Basin Commission to serve as a coordinating body. Finally, Rwanda and Burundi, two
partners minimally active in the first phase but important for the maintenance of the watershed, have
actively sought to join the second phase and are clarifying their relations with the EAC. Because of the
increased visibility of the Lake Victoria agenda and its enhanced recognition within the governmental



                                                      - 13 -

bodies of the riparian states, the difficulty experience in the first phase of embedding activities in the main
ministries will be less problematical in the future. Each of the countries has designated lead ministries, and
the "projectized" structure of the first phase will be disbanded and/or integrated into the relevant agencies.
For these reasons the outlook for institutional sustainability is good. Internal quality control and
management processes (particularly for research) must be strengthened to enhance relevance and assure
that the activities mainstreamed into the institutional structure are in fact delivering the needed results.

Environmental sustainability - Achievement of significant positive environmental outcomes in Lake
Victoria is a long term process, and the project was appropriately modest in its ambitions in this regard. It
did, however, affect, on a limited scale, the inflows caused by erosion through its soil and water and
afforestation activities. The project's contribution to reducing effluents through its planned priority
investment activities in tertiary treatment was negligible. Continued over-exploitation of fisheries remains a
concern, since the present offtake of Nile Perch is not within the range of catch estimated provisionally to
be sustainable. The decline in the level of the lake during the first phase confirms the vulnerability of the
level to changes in abstraction and precipitation. The research and consultative mechanism put in place
under the project contributed toward actions that have drawn attention to the over-abstraction, but it
remains to be seen whether further and possibly irreversible damage will be avoided. The lake is presently
rising as the rainy season ends, but the longer term prospect is not yet clear. The current status of the fish
stock, water quality, and the level of the lake confirm the need for clearly specified environmental
indicators in the second phase and agreed and enforceable mechanisms to achieve the indicators.
Furthermore, environmental assessment of the micro-projects should be enhanced and built into the
environmental capacity of the local governments in the watershed.

For component specific details, please see Section 10.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
LVEMP 1 was planned and implemented as the first phase of a long-term program, intending to develop
the knowledge base and capacity allowing for subsequent actions in the second phase. Extensions of the
first phase (due to the varying implementation pace among the three countries) and the delays in start-up of
the preparations for the expected next phase resulted in a funding gap for one and half years. This period,
called the Bridging Phase, is being supported by EU and Sida. Due to the decrease in the level of funding,
the scale of intervention has been reduced to core LVEMP1 activities allowing a continued momentum to
be maintained till the next phase comes online. The bridging phase is required because the second phase is
not a linear continuation of the activities and structures of the first, but rather an evolution reflecting the
increased role of the EAC, inclusion of Rwanda and Burundi as new partners, integration of activities into
governmental structures of the riparian countries, and shift in emphasis toward management and
development of the lake's resources (with continuation of the scientific activities of the first phase). The
planned second phase is intended to contribute to the achievement of the regional (EAC) Lake Victoria
Development Vision of having: "a prosperous population living in a healthy and sustainably managed
environment providing equitable opportunities and benefits to the riparian communities." Its provisional
development objectives are to: (i) Strengthen regional and national institutions for coordination of
sustainable management of the transboundary Lake Victoria basin resources; (ii) Facilitate environmentally
friendly investments in the Lake Victoria Basin; and (iii) Enhance conservation of biodiversity and genetic
resources of targeted fish species. The second phase will draw on the lessons learned from the
implementation of the first phase and is likely to focus on four main areas: (i) Building the information base
for governance and growth; (ii) Strengthening governance of transboundary natural resources; (iii)
Enhancing sustainable economic growth; and (iv) Raising public awareness through education and
communication. The project costs are expected to be financed by IDA credits, bilateral donors, and
borrowers' counterpart funds. Possible GEF support will be dependent on availability of funding under



                                                      - 14 -

GEF4 and on completion of the ongoing Regional Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) and the
Strategic Action Plan (SAP), likely to be completed in November 2006.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Moderately Satisfactory. Identification of the project began in 1992 but preparation began in earnest in
August 1994. The Bank helped the three riparian states embark on the first major regional project
contributing in part to the renewed EAC cooperation later. The Bank promoted a comprehensive approach
to the lake's problems and encouraged community participation and community based activities, gender
mainstreaming and stakeholder consultations at a time when the local experience to date had been neither
participatory nor inclusive. The Bank's team facilitated a path between the multiple competing views of the
problems and the variety of objectives/perspectives for the project evinced by the numerous stakeholders.
As noted by the then task team leader, 'almost everything in the project was a carefully crafted
compromise.' Given this context, preparation was done in a highly participatory and consultative way.
Some of the tensions between the varying views, however, were not fully resolved and were reflected in the
implementation of the project. Preparation missions were sufficient but did not fully anticipate or address
the lack of capacity and weaknesses in operational management. The project design was strong on
conceptual and technical merits but it was not translated by the countries into appropriate institutional
set-ups for implementation. Weaknesses in prior planning (especially of financial management and
procurement ) translated into an effective delay of two and half years. The preparation team appears to
have been overly optimistic about the capacity of the implementing agencies to perform. Because the
project predated the substantial decentralization of staff and responsibility to the field, the weakness may
have been hard for Washington-based staff to observe. Bank preparation missions in 1995 noted that the
secretariats were up and running in the three countries, but the early pace of implementation demonstrated
that they were operating with severe limitations. The changes introduced at the MTR allowed
implementation to accelerate and much of the ground lost was recovered. Given the elements of
preparation that were strong and the subsequent correction of those that were weak, the overall assessment
of lending is moderately satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Moderately Satisfactory. The chronology of the supervision record shows considerable variation both
over time in staffing, approach, and focus. Investment of Bank resources in supervision was considerably
greater than in preparation, but still showed an underestimate of the time and resources needed to supervise
a regional project of this size. Missions were conducted annually (mostly in the beginning of the project)
and semi-annually (mostly during the last years of the project). The supervision teams included specialists,
staff and consultants, with different areas of expertise (fisheries, watershed management, institutions etc.).
The missions included variously, in addition to the core teams, donor representatives, regional scientific
experts and project staff from other riparian states as observers. In the first two years supervision attention
was aimed at operationalising the project. Subsequently, and following changes in the implementing
arrangements, close supervision and intensive technical support led to rapid disbursements and progress in
the various component activities. The Bank assisted greatly in the overhaul of the components, matching
them to the institutional structure. It also helped untangle many of the structural issues that had derailed
financial and procurement processes (freeze in counterpart funding, tangled procurement). A strong but
belated exercise to retrofit a logframe and monitoring indicators was undertaken in 2004 as a result of the
stocktaking exercise, conducted in 2003. The subsequent approach of the team was to guide the project in
collating the results of the research into specific concrete outputs, resulting in the production of regional
and national reports on synthesis and lessons learned.




                                                     - 15 -

Successful support for implementation of this challenging project required a team able to focus
simultaneously on the big picture and on detail, and the Bank was not consistently able to assure both
perspectives. Team leadership changed five teams, and the changes brought varying professional
backgrounds and skills. The supervision record indicates significant differences in the framework and
approach towards both technical issues and supervision styles by the various teams. This resulted in lack of
consistency in the realism of supervision ratings and some gaps in the hand-overs. The teams worked
intensively and conscientiously, and contributed toward the realized accomplishment of the project's
objectives. The team was, however, not fully able to compensate for relatively weak managerial capacity
within the implementing agencies, nor for the absence of a clear focus on strategic objectives and
indicators.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance is Moderately Satisfactory, based on the above assessments. This is
consistent with the assessments conducted by the stocktaking exercise, QAG (for supervision of the linked
project in Uganda) and IEG (evaluation of the World Bank's Support for regional programs), which found
the Bank's performance overall to be satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Moderately Satisfactory. The Governments of the three partner states displayed ownership and
commitment to the visioning and planning of the project. The SAR was based on project planning
documents prepared by each of the countries. The three countries addressed the lack of regional
mechanisms needed to implement a transboundary intervention by signing the Tripartite Agreement of 1994
that supported cross-country cooperation and advanced the development of regional frameworks. Structural
impediments to implementation, including coordination, capacity, and challenges regarding resource
management were not adequately recognized and addressed. Preparation did not put in place management
structures that could provide strategic oversight and monitor and guide component activities. This was
critical, given the lack of a detailed log-frame, and contributed significantly to the fragmentation of project
activities. Significant weaknesses in pre-implementation operational planning, particularly related to
disbursements, procurement and institutional coordination, resulted in a lack of readiness for
implementation. These shortcomings were largely remedied with the changes in the MTR, as noted above.
The same reasoning that pertains to the assessment of the Bank's performance in preparation is operative
for the borrower's performance, and the overall assessment is moderately satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. There was a general recognition of the importance of and considerable support for the project
activities. The sector policies for fisheries have been directly strengthened through the harmonization of
fisheries legislation and policy frameworks among the three countries. The national policy frameworks
were strengthened considerably during this period by the Land and Village Land (1999), Water (2002),
Forest (supporting joint management of resources, 2004) and Environment (instituting effluent standards
and defining roles for environmental management, 2004) Acts. Tanzania also was the only country to have
implemented a fish levy (collected by some of the BMUs) at the rate of six percent. The relatively effective
disbursement and procurement processes following the MTR facilitated implementation. There was a
considerable initial delay in start-up, a result of delays in staffing the secretariat and various component
teams, and a reliance on contracted staff. The links between the component teams and the mainline agencies
could have been strengthened to allow absorption of scientific information and translation into guidelines or
policy messages.




                                                       - 16 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Moderately Satisfactory. There were seven main institutions/ministries, involved as primary implementing
agencies in the projects in Tanzania. The pace of implementation was smoother and more consistent than in
the two other partner states. The secretariat and many of the component leaders (implementing agency
representatives) were based in Dar es Salaam, while project activities operated out of Mwanza, with a
small coordination office there, resulting in challenges in communication. Further, the secretary divided his
time between regional and national coordination, with lesser attention to the former. There was considerable
variation in the intensity of supervision/coordination by the various component leaders with the result that
on-site team leaders, some of whom were contracted, largely managed their own component activities.
Although the project suffered from lack of strategic focus as noted above, the implementing agencies in
Tanzania were able to maintain a steady pace of activity and flow of funds after the organizational changes
during the mid-term review. The performance of the implementing agencies in Tanzania was better than
that in the other two countries. Given the interlinkage of the projects, the relatively good performance of
Tanzania provided an important managerial externality that shored up the regional effort when the other
partners intermittently faltered.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Moderately Satisfactory. Overall, while the performance of the Government could have been enhanced
through better oversight of the implementation, the long-term support to the program by Government and
the progress in transboundary coordination and management are noted. The performance of the
implementing agencies in Tanzania was sufficient to keep activities flowing there and to have positive
spillover effects on the partners. For this reason the performance of the borrower overall is rated
satisfactory, although moderately so.

8. Lessons Learned

LVEMP1 provided rich experience and lessons derived from successes and disappointments in
implementation. Given the longer-term program for management of Lake Victoria, these lesson are
particularly relevant.

As is fitting for a project supporting acquisition of knowledge, many of the lessons learned are
technical in nature.
Among the most important that were not known at the outset of the project are the following:
l Biodiversity of fish has declined, but many species thought to be extinct in the watershed are in fact
    present in refugia in satellite lakes.
l A sustainable catch of Nile Perch is probably within the range of 220,000 tons annually (trawl
    surveys) to 350,000 tons annually (acoustic survey).
l Point sources of pollution are important locally and have effects on public health, but are not the
    largest sources of phosphorus and nitrogen exacerbating eutrophication of the lake.
l Eutrophication is primarily due to nitrogen and phosphorus from atmospheric deposition, although the
    relative contribution of the catchment to it is yet unknown.
l The lake level has varied significantly over time and is highly sensitive to small changes in the balance
    of inflows and outflows.
l Constructed wetlands can be effective measures to enhance the contribution that natural wetlands make
    toward water quality.
l Water hyacinth can be effectively contained in the lake through biological control (weevils), but
    weevils are less effective in the rivers that flow into the lake.

Interlinked national projects are vulnerable to failure of one of the partners, and must build in peer



                                                      - 17 -

review and assistance, and safeguards in the event that these fail.
The inability to extend the IDA credit in Kenya was a serious problem for both of the other projects and for
the regional effort overall. Partners should agree at the design phase to be mutually accountable for
performance and mutually supportive when problems arise, so that they can be spotted and remedied early.

Scientific research must be targeted, provide usable information for management decisions and be
widely accessible.
Given the resource constraints and urgency of the need better to manage the lake, the monitoring and
research undertaken should be targeted, applied, and framed with cognizance of the necessary and
sufficient levels of information needed for management. The research should be managed efficiently,
bringing in innovative mechanisms such as competitive grants, and subject to peer review for quality
control. Outputs from monitoring and research should be widely shared.

Regional projects necessitate greater emphasis on clarity of project objectives, monitorable
frameworks, at multiple levels, and adequate mechanisms for governance.
Given the need for regional partners to stay in step with each other, clear objectives, indicators and targets
help focus efforts towards results. Coordination and sharing of information are important, but real
improvement in the state of the lake will require a mutually agreed set of standards linked to recognized
indicators and enforced through agreed mechanisms including both incentives and sanctions. Establishment
of such mechanisms is the core agenda of the second phase, drawing on knowledge created during the first
and the initial experience with creation of institutions for governance. For instance, the weak motivation for
prioritizing waste water treatment pilots resulted from lack of regulations and/or enforcement.

The Basin perspective is critical to address the key environmental issues of Lake Victoria.
The initial focus of the program was on the Lake itself, particularly on fisheries (with 41 percent of
allocated resources). The key scientific results underscore the importance of interventions at the Basin level
in order to address the problems of the Lake. For instance, the important finding resulting from water
quality monitoring indicates that atmospheric deposition accounts for the bulk of pollution in the lake (and
part of the deposition may originate outside the basin). Similarly, some water hyacinth originates upstream
from the riparian countries (in Rwanda and Burundi).

Capacity building has to address both current and projected gaps.
The project started with varying capacities among the three countries necessitating a careful strategy for
need-based and gap-filling capacity building at all relevant institutions (not just research bodies). While the
project upgraded skills and equipped institutions it did not project needs and address future gaps. There
were long employment freezes in these countries with implications for capacity resulting from generational
transitions. The timeline and intensity of capacity building has to be better managed to avoid lack of
personnel to implement and scale-up.

Implementation in the future can be undertaken through governmental structures.
The project relied on contracted staff and stand-alone PMUs for implementation. This was probably
necessary at the time, but opened the door for insularity, some institutional jealousy regarding pay scales,
and adverse incentives (e.g., high costs for workshops and travel allowances). Mainstreaming of
implementation within governmental structures is now feasible and is a better approach for the future.

Environmental benefits must be strongly linked to improved livelihoods for local people and
communities.
Community based micro-projects were highly successful and helped provide low-cost services on health,
education, livelihoods related needs. They served as vehicles for raising awareness and capacity on



                                                      - 18 -

sustainable land management, public health and sanitation, gender, and HIV/AIDS. The BMUs, CBOs,
CIGs and other community institutions helped empower local decision-making and lead to an increase in
livelihood opportunities. This approach was found useful in building community buy-in for activities
generating positive environmental externalities pertinent to the Lake's health. There is need for further
attention to public health aspects (sanitation and HIV/AIDS), micro-credit access and the socio-economic
impacts of increasing migration to the lakeshore.

Good education of the public and parliamentarians is critical for long term sustainability and success.
Proper management of Lake Victoria will require a long term commitment of public funds and willingness
of people living in the basin to change behaviors. Attainment of both requires relentless and sophisticated
investment in public education.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Document shared. Comments to be received.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Document shared. Comments to be received.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

10. Additional Information

         Component Specific Details on Outputs, Institutional Development and Sustainability

Original Components as in the SAR
    The joint SAR (June 1996) defined the following components (with the original total allocations,
    combined for the three countries, partly indicating the prioritization at the start of the project):
     1) Fisheries Management (USD 2.28 million): The project supported the establishment of the Lake
    Victoria Fisheries Organization with facilities, assets, personnel and operational expenditures. The
    LVFO was expected to contribute to the improvement of fisheries management, conservation by
    collaborating with other lake related agencies, coordinating fisheries extension and disseminating
    information on Lake Victoria Fisheries.
    2) Fisheries Research (USD 13.33 million): The program for fisheries research aimed to provide
    information on the ecology of the lake and its catchment, the biology of its flora and fauna, the impact
    of environmental factors on the lake system, and socioeconomic implications of use of the lake
    resources. The information was to contribute towards improved ecological efficiency, greater
    biodiversity, and ecological balance in the lake ecosystem. This component had five sub-components -
    a) Fish Biology and biodiversity conservation, b) Aquaculture, c) socioeconomic, d) database.
    Separately stock assessment was being conducted (financed by the EU). It was unclear why this was
    specified as a project sub-component and how this was to be coordinated with the remaining
    sub-components.
    3) Fisheries Extension, Policies and Laws (USD 14.09 million): This component aimed at harmonizing
    legislation among the three countries, identifying and establishing closed fishing areas, strengthening
    enforcement capacity as well as supporting extension activities such as introducing new techniques,
    small scale aquaculture, strengthening information collection and promoting fishing community
    organizations. The component also aimed at supporting one fish quality control laboratory and
    micro-projects in selected fishing villages comprising of small investments in water supply, sanitation,
    access roads and health.



                                                     - 19 -

  4) Fish Levy Trust (USD 2.03 million): This component aimed at studying and implementing a system
  for collecting levies from the fishing industry and using these funds in supporting fisheries and
  ecosystem management in the lake and its catchment.
  5) Water Hyacinth Control (USD 8.31 million): The aim of this component was to establish sustainable
  long-term capacity for maintaining control of water hyacinth and other invasive weeds in the Lake
  Victoria.
  6) Water Quality and Ecosystem Management (USD 9.6 million): The aim of the program was to
  elucidate the nature and dynamics of the lake ecosystem by providing detailed information on the
  characteristics of the waters of the lake. The program was to provide details of limnological changes,
  model and predict their short and long term consequences, and provide guidelines for ameliorating
  potentially disastrous changes. There was one core project, Management of Eutrophication, two pilots,
  Sedimentation and Hydraulic conditions and the Construction of a model of water circulation and
  quality in the lake, designed to help manage the problems.
  7) Industrial and Municipal Waste Management (USD 9.89 million): The program aimed to improve
  management of industrial and municipal effluent and assess the contribution of urban run-off to lake
  pollution in order to design alleviation measures. It consisted of one core project, Management of
  Industrial and Municipal Effluents, and two pilots, Integrated Tertiary Municipal Effluent Treatment
  and Integrated Industrial Effluent Treatment and a component for Priority Waste Management
  Investments.
  8) Land Use and Wetland Management (USD 14.1 million): This component consisted of two core
  projects, Management of pollution loading (addressing non-point sources of pollution) and Buffering
  capacity of Wetlands as well as four pilots - Assessment of the role of agro-chemicals in pollution,
  integrated soil and water conservation, sustainable use of wetland products, and afforestation. These
  activities were a combination of information generation studies and piloting/implementation of solution
  on-the-ground.
  9) Institutional Framework (Support to Riparian Universities and the Coordinating Secretariat) (USD
  3.98 million): The last component lumped together two sub-components that targeted capacity building,
  ie Support to the Riparian Universities for strengthening facilities for environmental analysis and
  graduate teaching, and project implementation, i.e., Maintaining Coordinating Secretariats. One
  activity, the preparation of a Pollution Disaster Contingency Plan was also included.

  It is noted that Fisheries Extension (Component No. 3) included an allocation of USD 3 million
  towards micro-projects in fishing communities. Community Participation was a crosscutting issue from
  the beginning. These components combine for a national total external financing of USD 20.4 million
  and total project costs of USD 22.6 million for Tanzania.

Revised Components
  The final list of components and sub-components in Tanzania as prevalent at the end of the project,
  with major changes indicated, is below:




                                                   - 20 -

  No. Component                                              Sub-Components
         (Implementing Agency)
      1 Fisheries Management                                 a) Establishment of Fish Levy trust
         (Fisheries Division, Ministry of Natural Resources
         and Tourism)
                                                             b) Fisheries Co-management
                                                             c) Strengthening of Extension Services
                                                             d) Statistical Data Collection and Frame
                                                             Survey
      2 Fisheries Research                                   a) Fish Biology and Biodiversity
         (Tanzania Fisheries Research Institute-TAFIRI,      Conservation
         Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security)          b) Aquaculture
                                                             c) Socio-economics
                                                             d) Information and data base
      3 Water Quality and Ecosystem Management               a) In-Lake Water Quality
         (Ministry of Water, previously also "and Livestock  Monitoring/Eutrophication
         Development")
                                                             b) Industrial and Municipal Waste
                                                             Management     1)

                                                             c) Management of Pollution Loading
      4 Water Hyacinth Control
         (Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security)
      5 Wetland Management                                   a) Buffering Capacity of Lake Victoria
         (National Environment Management Council-           Wetlands
         NEMC, under Vice President's Office)                b) Sustainable Use of Wetlands and
                                                             Wetland Products
      6 Soil and Water Conservation                          a) Agrochemicals Management
         (Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security)         b) Soil and Water Conservation
      7 Catchment Afforestation
         (Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism)
      8 Capacity Building/Support to Riparian Universities
         (Faculty of Aquatic Sciences and Technology, University of Dar es Salaam)
      9 Coordinating National Secretariat (Project management and coordination)
         Vice-Presidents' Office
     10 Micro Projects
         (The National Secretariat)



Components Objectives and Outputs

  Fisheries Management
  Objective: To improve overall management and protection of fisheries resources in lake Victoria by
  strengthening both national and regional institutional framework and promotion of conservation



                                                 - 21 -

measures.
Beach Management Units (BMUs) actively involved fishery communities in the management of
fisheries, monitoring and data gathering, levy collection, enforcement of regulations and so on. The
BMUs have not only been focusing on fisheries management and ensuring fish quality but have also
provided an entry point into the communities for activities dealing with gender, hygiene and education,
which was done primarily through micro projects. The bottom up approach has been successful and
linked fisheries management closer to the daily users of the lake resources. The component achieved
notable success in harmonizing the fisheries legislative and regulatory frameworks among the three
countries. Fisheries management has contributed to major sector and macro policies including the
fisheries policy and strategy statement (1997), National Environment Policy (1997) and the new
Fisheries Act (2003) and related regulations. Key outputs include: establishment of 511 operational
BMUs (15 of them collecting fish levies at the rate of 6 percent); 53 landing sites identified (of which
10 were provided with floating barges); reduction in post-harvest losses; steep decline in illegal fishing
(mainly through community surveillance); increased observance of the closure periods; training
conducted for fish farmers and extension workers on improved techniques and quality assurance;
quality assurance capacity strengthened (6 % improvement of fish quality); biannual frame surveys
conducted; and information materials made available in Kiswahili.

Fisheries Research
Objective: To establish a baseline on ecology of the lake, impact of environmental factors on the lake
system and socioeconomic impact on resources; restoration of threatened species through
aquaculture.
The components activities have been carried out in four subcomponents (Fish Biology and Biodiversity
Conservation; Aquaculture; Socio-economics and Information and Database. The following outputs
were obtained: 166 papers and documents produced; input into regional GIS biodiversity maps; input
into regional bibliography on the Lake Victoria basin; input into regional compendia on fisheries and
biodiversity, unpublished/in press; threatened species identified from satellite lakes and stock collected;
141 protected areas identified and gazetted.

Water Quality and Ecosystem Management
Objective: To elucidate the nature and dynamics of the lake ecosystem; to improve management of
industrial and municipal effluent and assess the contribution of urban run-off of lake pollution in
order to design alleviation measures. (To establish a water quality monitoring network throughout
the catchment, estimating the effects of changes in land use planning on pollution loads in the lake,
and developing policies and programs to control non-point source pollution)". The latter part (in
brackets) was the result of the appending of the Management of Pollution Loading sub-component,
during the restructuring of the components; it is really more an activity than an objective. The objective
was not well formulated, as it does not have a clear linkage to the alleviation measures, being the main
purpose of these activities. It is unclear whether the alleviation measures were to be a part of the output
or whether such measures were to follow in the subsequent phases of the project. It is noted that no
specific objective was stated in the SAR for the Management of Pollution Loading and Assessment of
Role of Agro-chemicals in pollution of Lake Victoria activities. The outputs include:
a) In-lake Water Quality Monitoring: The component has notably resulted in increased knowledge of
water quality; hydrodynamics; primary sources of nutrients, and reasons for water hyacinth
occurrence. Digital maps are under preparation. National and regional water quality synthesis reports
were prepared (Tanzania coordinated the regional reporting on water quality). This was done through
analysis of data collected from the water quality monitoring network, which was established. The
network includes 29 monitoring stations (planned in a harmonized way by the three countries, with 15
in open waters and 14 near shore). The research effort intensity was higher than a sustainable level (16


                                                 - 22 -

lake cruises were undertaken and 4314 profiles obtained. Analyses of 1688 water samples, 284
sediment samples, and 3403 zooplankton/phytoplankton samples were conducted.)                Three water
laboratories (Mwanza, Musoma and Bukoba) have been rehabilitated/expanded, equipped and
supported operationally. Two of these are functioning at present and one is in transition (the one in
Bukoba is being re-located due to structural failure).
b) Management of Pollution Loading: A monitoring network was established (28 river gauging
stations, 8 atmospheric gauging stations - 3 dry and 5 wet, and 16 additional evaporation/rainfall
monitoring stations). Data were compiled, validated and analyzed, and baseline on pollution loading
from the non-point sources and from atmospheric deposition was established (most nutrients to the lake
coming for the latter ­ 84% N and 75% P).
c) Industrial and Municipal Waste Management: Inventory and mapping of pollution hotspots along the
lake shore was undertaken (including characteristics of urban run-offs from 3 centers and 600 shoreline
settlements, and sanitary conditions in shoreline settlements); and inventory/classification of industrial
effluents (locations, amounts and quality characteristics of 31 industries and 19 urban centers) was
undertaken (Directories for 166 industries, 149 urban centers and 600 shoreline settlements were
prepared), with limited follow-up monitoring. Public awareness campaigns were conducted through
various media. A Cleaner Production (CP) program in 12 industries was conducted and lasted one year
with training from experts from the Ministry of Industries and trade, and Vice President's Office
Division of Environment and including a study tour to Denmark supported by DANIDA. Tertiary
Municipal Effluent Treatment pilot plant (wetland) was constructed at Butuja, but testing was held up
by the completion of the (primary) Mwanza waste water treatment plant (supported by EU).
d) Staff training at various levels was conducted; one Ph.D. and six M. Sc. degrees, six diplomas, and
25 certificates were awarded.

Water Hyacinth Control
Objective: To establish sustainable long-term capacity for maintaining control of water hyacinth and
other invasive weeds in the Lake Victoria.
A combination of physical and biological control methods was successfully applied. The outputs
include: 530 strategically important sites (landing sites and beaches, water intakes etc.) manually
cleared in close collaboration with a local NGO (LANESO); 12 weevil rearing units (WRU)
established of which 10 were functional at project close; about 200 million weevils (biological control
agents) released over the project's lifespan; training of personnel - one Ph.D. and 3 M.Sc. degrees
awarded (of which one was not directly relevant to the component); limited training of community
members (2 members, including the caretaker, in each community with a WRU); study tour involving
28 community members; 15 awareness workshops (two of them targeting communities); wide
information dissemination (10 radio programs, 6 TV programs, 10 newspaper articles and 2 posters),
and the formulation of the Plant Protection (control of Water Hyacinth) rules (based on the Plant
Protection Act of 1997 and gazetted in 2001).

Wetlands Management
Objective: To increase knowledge of wetlands buffering processes and of Lake Victoria wetlands; to
determine economic potential of the Lake Victoria Basin wetlands products; to demonstrate wise use
of wetland resources; and to develop strategies for wetlands management.
The outputs include: inventory and classification of Lake Victoria wetlands; maps produced; buffering
capacity of study wetlands investigated, but not leading to any management plans; nutrient loading in
four priority areas monitored; a very preliminary assessment of the value of buffering capacity carried
out in 2001; three studies assessing the economic potential/benefit from wetland products (primarily
macrophytes) and evaluating their contribution to the local communities; preparation of Wetland
Management Plans for Simiyu (Magu), Kitaji (Musoma), Rubana (Bunda) and Mabubi (Geita) have


                                                 - 23 -

been initiated but not adopted or ratified; capacity strengthening of local NGOs and CBOs to undertake
sustainable use of wetlands have been undertaken in pilot areas but have not been replicated to other
areas. Awareness and information dissemination on wetlands was carried out using various methods
such as meetings, workshops, seminars, posters, brochures, video, radio, TV, newspapers, exhibitions,
and study tours. The presentation of scientific papers at national, regional and international conferences
was also carried out. Nevertheless, wetland issues are not very well appreciated by the various
stakeholders, as it is considered a 'new' issue. Staff at various levels were trained in relevant
courses/programs. Demonstration projects were initiated on propagation of wetland macrophytes, fish
farming, handicraft and wetland rehabilitation.

Integrated Soil and Water Conservation
Objective: To promote improved land management practices in the Lake Victoria for increased and
sustained agricultural productivity and reduce agro-chemicals nutrient and sediment loading into
water systems leading to Lake Victoria.
The main activities of this component were promotion of soil and water conservation measures through
pilot area testing of technologies (along the Simiyu River Catchment in Magu and Mwitore in Tarime,
Mara Region), management of pollution loading and agro-chemicals management. A survey and
mapping of present land use/cover and soil erosion hazard has been done. Farmers exchange visits,
demand driven on-farm training sessions were undertaken. The main outputs include: 6 soils erosion
maps; 2165 farmers adopted soil and water conservation practices; 2572 farmers adopted safe use and
handling of Agro-chemicals and the use of the Integrated Pest Management methodology; 103 km
contour bunds and ridges constructed, key to the control of non-point pollution; a considerable increase
in crop production per unit area (maize has increased from 500 to 1000 kg/ha and paddy rose from 450
to 1350 kg/ha) as a result of these measures; development of five new village action plans for soil and
water conservation activities. The component had a considerable degree of community interaction for
promoting sustainable soil conservation activities. As the methods used by the component got more
streamlined, it was possible to optimize the use of funds and estimate the costs per piloted soil and
water conservation technology.

Catchment Afforestation
Objective: To protect vital areas of Lake Victoria catchment by planting trees by involving local
communities and institutions
With a relatively clear objective, the component focused their activities in Mwanza Gulf and Mara
River, focusing on smaller restricted areas, in order to maximize the impact. It achieved the following:
12 million tree seedlings raised and planted during the project period, with a survival rate of 79 percent
(9 million trees); community involvement in conserving natural forests in Bunda and Musoma districts;
five new village forest reserves created in the pilot area; communities and component staff involved in
surveying, boundary demarcation and mapping of six potential village forests reserves; manual on
nursery establishment and management produced; and 10 management plans for natural forests
formulated. Awareness raising workshops were conducted with participation from all district leaders,
technicians and politicians in all the 15 districts where LVEMP had been active. Microprojects focused
on spring protection/rehabilitation and promotion of improved stoves but unfortunately the latter,
although highly beneficial, required more man hours than available to sustain, and thus, the activity
was stopped. Community awareness was raised through meetings, workshops, seminars, radio and TV
programs, newsletter articles and various other extension materials; outreach included 50 contact
people per village in 33 pilot villages (approximately 2400 people in all). Capacity of staff was
enhanced - Two M.Sc. degrees awarded, 12 short courses and 3 study tours involving staff and
farmers conducted.




                                                  - 24 -

    Capacity Building - Support to University of Dar es Salaam, Faculty of Aquatic Sciences
    Objective: To strengthen facilities for environmental analysis and graduate teaching at University of
    Dar es Salaam.
    LVEMP support was directed to capacity building in terms of improving teaching and research, both
    personnel and infrastructure. The component trained members of staff at various levels including PhDs
    in aquatic sciences. Project support was instrumental in establishing the new Faculty of Aquatic
    Sciences and Technology, government funding for which has been improving steadily. Two new degree
    programs for undergraduates were developed and delivered. Student enrollment increased from a
    maximum of 15 students per year prior to 2002 to 50 students per year after that. While most of the
    department's operational budget and resource needs are met through the University, support from the
    project enabled the participation of the department in training and research specific to the Lake
    Victoria basin and in improved delivery of services that were included in its work-plan. The acquired
    equipment facilitated many research projects for graduate students. Two M.Sc. and three Ph.D.
    students were fully supported by LVEMP with full completion. All, except one M.Sc. graduate who is
    working with TAFIRI, are working with the University. Additionally, two staff from TAFIRI were
    trained at the M.Sc. level and they remain with the organization.

    Institutional Framework - Support to Regional and National Secretariat
    Objective: Responsible for overall monitoring and reporting progress, coordination and information
    sharing at the regional and national levels.
    The Secretariat in Tanzania combined both regional and national coordination and reporting functions.
    It coordinated RPSC meetings and facilitated harmonizing of a number of regional interventions,
    regulations, and processes. Its mandate included the coordination of the Expert Panel of Scientists and
    their input towards quality assurance of the various scientific research being conducted under the
    project. The secretariat was largely based in Dar es Salaam. It housed the library for the entire project,
    containing most reports from all countries in hard and soft copies, in addition to other relevant
    literature. There were seven officers at the Secretariat with two assistants and 12 support staff, totaling
    21 people. The extended arm of the Secretariat was placed in Mwanza by the Lake, having two officers
    including the Senior Operations Officer. The secretariat has been wound up at the close of the project.

    Micro-Projects and Community Participation.
    The project targeted service delivery among the Lake basin communities by implementing a range of
    demand driven projects in the health, water, education, sanitation, access roads, afforestation and
    fisheries sectors. A total of 90 projects were initiated out of which 85 were still functioning as project
    closure.

Institutional Development

    Fisheries Management. The capacity of the Fisheries Division was raised on a number of issues
    ranging from fish farming over PRA methodologies to micro management through the BMUs. The
    people trained are associated with the Fisheries Division ensuring that the capacity will sustain and
    develop the future activities of the Fisheries Division.
    Fisheries Research. A considerable amount of information remains with the institution (TAFIRI),
    which was also enhanced with support for capacity. Many staff completed advanced degree courses,
    while others received training on a wide variety of disciplines and techniques.
    Water Quality and Ecosystem Management. The component has to some degree increased the
    knowledge of the Water Resources Department regarding the lake's eutrophication and hydrodynamics
    characteristics, and the establishment and running of monitoring networks. However, the key staff were
    already highly educated and experienced by the project outset. The ability or dedicated will to translate


                                                     - 25 -

   increased knowledge and scientific research into formulating achievable pollution reduction measures
   was weak. Notably, the key staff of the component are on contract, increasing the uncertainty of
   available capacity for activities once the contract period is over (at the end of the Bridging Phase of
   LVEMP).
   Water Hyacinth Control. The component raised the capacity of the institution internally (two M.Sc.
   and one Ph.D. degrees were awarded) which also increased the regional capacity and ability to engage
   in regional information sharing. The increased knowledge resulted from a number of research activities
   e.g., weevil lifecycle and ability to sustain life in moving waters (rivers). On the other hand, the
   component did not focus as strongly on raising the community awareness, and involving the
   communities.
   Wetlands Management. A lot of baseline information has been compiled under this component that was
   not fully analyzed. Weakness in capacity (the component had been short of staffs for a long period)
   was a contributory factor. The component had three consultants, which limited the strengthening of the
   relevant governmental institutions in wetlands management.
   Soil and Water Conservation. The soil maps are useful tools for future management of the land use
   resource in the catchment, allowing for fact-based interventions to be undertaken. The activities were
   undertaken in collaboration with the Land Use Planning Department anchoring the activities in an
   organization, while increasing its capacity.
   Catchment Afforestation. The capacity building process under this component, has increased the
   institutional capacity. There may be some localized gaps, as some of the staff trained under this
   component were moved to other positions.
   Capacity Building: Support to Riparian Universities. There is undoubtedly more capacity developed in
   the field of aquatic sciences in the country, with the new faculty established. Further, the strengthening
   of the department facilities has contributed in improving the quality of academic programs offered at
   the University of Dar es Salaam.
   Institutional Framework: National Secretariat. The secretariat has not had the expected level on impact
   in developing strong and lasting collaborative links between implementing agencies that could have led
   to greater coordination and jointly planned arrangements.
   Microprojects and Community Participation. These activities helped increase buy-in among the
   communities, raise awareness on the critical environmental issues and help empower communities. The
   approach was found to be very successful and microprojects were in high-demand.

Sustainability

   Fisheries Management. Capacity building at various levels and the strong shift to co-management
   contribute to the sustainability of the outputs of this component. Tanzania is ahead of other countries in
   the implementation of the co-management framework, and some BMUs are already collecting revenues
   (481 of the 511 BMUs are active and 11 CMUs in the satellite lakes are operational). This is likely to
   enhance sustainability of monitoring, control and surveillance efforts.
   Fisheries Research. As stated in the National ICR, research in Tanzania is to a high degree dependent
   on external resources to undertake research, which also applies to the research in this component. The
   GOT has committed to use external resources for this purpose, as reflected in the MTEF. Many
   scientific outputs would benefit from revision and fuller dissemination. Information must be shared
   more broadly between and among researchers and with the public.
   Water Quality and Ecosystem Management. The key staff in the component have been on contract
   (with considerably higher remuneration than similar governmental positions, as it was difficult to find
   the requisite capacity in the Ministry that could be located in Mwanza). Some additional data will be
   collected (core monitoring) in the LVEMP Bridging Phase with the limited funds available. The
   laboratories will continue operation, hopefully with the trained competent staff, as long as there are


                                                      - 26 -

resources for operations. The Lake Victoria Water Model is not operational and suffers the additional
risk of having personnel trained on it being on contract. Determination of which activities to continue
and the contractual basis for needed staff will be part of the preparation for the second phase.
Water Hyacinth Control. The increase in local capacity to address the problem is likely to contribute to
the sustainability of outcomes. BMU participation in monitoring combined with the continuation of
tasks of the agency for pest control towards keeping infestation down are also positive features. The
weak ownership by the communities of the weevil rearing units is an unfortunate factor that impedes
sustainability. Having a paid caretaker on the spot decreased the communities' sense of ownership of
the WRUs, and this presents an opportunity to do things differently in the next phase.
Wetlands Management. The information gathered and the wetland maps are valuable resources for
supporting future management decisions. Communities are encroaching on wetlands as land is
converted to agricultural purposes, pointing to the need for increased awareness and different
incentives.
Soil and Water Conservation. In the piloted areas where benefits of increased outputs and other
economic incentives are obvious, the farmers will most likely ensure that implemented technologies will
be sustained and in some cases maybe even extended and further developed. The poorest farmers are
not able to purchase the necessary inputs to undertake such interventions. Linkage with agricultural
programs under the ASDP will be important.
Catchment Afforestation. This component involved public institutions (schools, prisons, etc.,), and
communities in raising and planting of tree seedlings. It operated central nurseries managed by the
district authorities, and supported community-based, and privately owned nurseries as well. The
component implemented its exit strategy by decreasing gradually the number of seedlings raised at the
central nurseries, while increasing the quantity in the community-based nurseries. In addition, a "token
price" was introduced on seedlings, not only to recover part of the costs, but also to attach value to the
seedlings. A number of community forest reserves were established, and management plans for other
degraded forests and hills were developed. The awareness that has been achieved in the pilot area
needs to be monitored in order to keep the momentum going. The approach of involving the
communities to the greatest extent is likely to help sustain the planting, and increase the "survival rate"
of the planted seedlings.
Capacity Building: Support to Riparian Universities. The project supported the establishment of the
Aquatic Sciences department at the University of Dar es Salaam, including training of some of the
faculty members, and equipping the laboratory. The government will continue to fund the operational
costs of this department, although the intensity of research effort is likely to decline post project, as
would the number of students graduating with advanced degrees. The government also provides
competitive students loans, which could sustain the enrollment in the department.
Institutional Framework: National Secretariat. The LVEMP secretariat was closed at the end of the
project. Coordination of the Bridging Phase activities is being handled by the implementing agency,
Ministry of Water. It is not clear if all the information gathered under the project and stored in the
library and in several databases of various components has been transferred to that agency.
Microprojects and community participation. Microprojects were largely demand-driven and were
oriented to meet self-identified needs. Collaboration with mainline agencies in service-provision also
strengthened the likelihood of sustainability.




                                                   - 27 -

  Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

These indicators are formulated in Annex 4 of the Staff Appraisal Document (1996). The indicators were
not quantified and tracked systematically. Component specific outputs and achievements have been detailed in
Section 10 of the ICR.

Indicators                           Achievements at project                Comments
                                     completion
                                     University and implementing            Substantial capacity building
1. Building capacity within the      agencies strengthened; Members of activities undertaken, in
riparian universities, the line      staff trained at various levels (eg. 3 implementing agencies, the
ministries, LVEMP secretariats and PhDs and 25 M.Sc,); New Faculty secretariat, and at the local
the riparian communities for         of Aquatic Sciences and                Government and community levels.
environmental analysis,              Technology established; Two new        Better trained personnel contributed
conservation and adoption of         degree programs for undergraduates toward stronger institutions. A
cohesive management practices on developed and delivered; Increased capacity bulding strategy was not
the lake.                            student enrollment increased from a developed and efforts were linked to
                                     maximum of 15 students per year        needs identified by the agencies
                                     prior to 2002 to 50 students per       themselves. There was a greater
                                     year post 2002.                        emphasis on fisheries related
                                     Numerous others were trained           capacity.
                                     on-the-job and through short
                                     courses.
2. Harmonization among the three     Fisheries regulatory and policy
countries legislation addressing     frameworks strengthened and
management of fisheries and          harmonized across three countries;
environment variables important in Contributed to major sector and
the lake basin, and improved         macro policies including the
enforcement of this legislation.     fisheries policy and strategy
                                     statement (1997), National
                                     Environment Policy (1997) and the
                                     new Fisheries Act (2003) and
                                     related regulations; Lake Victoria
                                     Fisheries Organization created;
                                     Contributed to formulation of the
                                     Lake Victoria Protocol and
                                     subsequent Lake Victoria Basin
                                     Commission, under the EAC
                                     leadership.
3. Establishment of the Lake         Achieved                               LVFO active and coordinating
Victoria Fisheries Organization                                             regional activities. Focus on
(LVFO)                                                                      establishment of Beach
                                                                            Management Units and post-harvest
                                                                            fish quality issues.
4. Completion of gazetting and       Gazetting of 63 landing areas;         BMUs units most advanced in
regulating fish landing sites within Co-management through 511              Tanzania under LVEMP.
pilot zone areas and enforcing       operational BMUs (15 of them
acceptable fishing practices within acollecting fish levies at the rate of 6



                                                       - 28 -

5 km radius of fishing villages    percent) 511 operational Beach
within these areas, with full      Management Units (BMUs)
participation of lakeshore fishing progressing; reduction in
communities.                       post-harvest losses; steep decline in
                                   illegal fishing (mainly through
                                   community surveillance); increased
                                   observance of the closure periods;
                                   115 Micro-projects implemented;
                                   training conducted for fish farmers
                                   and extension workers on improved
                                   techniques and quality assurance;
                                   quality assurance capacity
                                   strengthened (6 % improvement of
                                   fish quality); biannual frame
                                   surveys conducted; and information
                                   materials made available in
                                   Kiswahili.
5. Establishing sustainable        Biologically sustainable control of Different locations for the weevil
long-term capacity for management water hyacinth achieved (85%           rearing stations were used,
and control of water hyacinth and  reduction); Strong community          including schools, fishing villages
other invasive weeds in Lake       involvement in control activities.    etc., based on the incentives
Victoria Basin, through integrated                                       perceived by the local communities
weed control methods and
community involvement
6. Establishing a lake wide water  Increased    knowledge     of   waterA substantial baseline information
quality and rainfall monitoring    quality, hydrodynamics, primarywas established. Key scientific
system with agreed parameters to   sources of nutrients, and reasons forresults were generated. Emphasis
generate information on            water hyacinth occurrence; Digitalwas on data collection. Sampling
eutrophication management and      maps (under preparation); Nationalwas episodic, affected by flow of
pollution control.                 and regional water quality synthesisfunds problems; capacity sometimes
                                   reports    were    prepared;   Waterwas overwhelmed.
                                   quality      monitoring      network
                                   established;       includeing      29
                                   monitoring stations (planned in a
                                   harmonized      way   by   the   three
                                   countries, with 18 in open waters
                                   and 11 near shore); Three water
                                   laboratories (Mwanza, Musoma and
                                   Bukoba)       rehabilitated/expanded,
                                   equipped         and        supported
                                   operationally;      Inventory     and
                                   mapping of pollution hotspots along
                                   the        lake      shore;       and
                                   inventory/classification of industrial
                                   effluents (locations, amounts and
                                   quality     characteristics  of    31
                                   industries);     Public    awareness
                                   campaigns       conducted     through



                                                     - 29 -

                                   various media; Cleaner Production
                                   (CP) program in 12 industries was
                                   conducted for one year
7. Completing a full inventory and Completed. Maps and wetland           More comprehensive wetland
resource survey of Lake Victoria   inventory available in all countries. management plans were developed
wetlands, and preparing investment and classification of Lake Victoria for a few pilot areas, using a
proposals for the economic         wetlands; maps produced               participatory approach.
management of these wetlands,
including their rehabilitation.




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Table 1: Financing Plan for LVEMP Regional Project at Appraisal
Project Component                    Govts.    GEF       IDA     Total    Percent
LVFO                                   0.20    2.10                  2.30        3
Fisheries Management                   1.40             12.70      14.10        18
Fisheries Research                     1.30    8.80      3.20      13.30        17
Water Quality Management               1.00    8.60                  9.60       12
Industrial and Municipal Waste
Management                             1.00              8.90        9.90       13
Water Hyacinth Control                 0.80    4.50      3.00        8.30       11


Land Use, Catchment Afforestation
and Wetlands Management                1.40    7.40      5.30      14.10        18
Support to Riparian Universities +
National Secretariat                   0.60    3.60      1.90        6.10        8
Total                                  7.70   35.00     35.00      77.70       100



Table2: LVEMP Tanzania - Appraised Project Costs and Financing Sources by Component (USD
'000)
Components (in USD, '000)         IDA      GEF      IDA+GEF     GoT        Total
Fisheries Research                 905.00  2611.10     3516.10   392.20     3908.30
Fisheries Management              4311.50              4311.50   479.10     4790.60
Water Quality Management          2678.30  4037.50     6715.80   812.90     7528.70
Water Hyacinth Control             842.30  1263.40     2105.70   234.00     2339.70
Wetland Management                 200.40  1108.50     1308.90   145.40     1454.30
Soil and Water Conservation        362.90               362.90    40.30      403.20
Catchment Afforestation            686.70               686.70    76.30      763.00
Support to Riparian Universities            287.60      287.60    32.00      319.60
Cordinating Secretariat                     993.00      993.00   110.30     1103.30
Total                             9987.10 10301.10    20288.20  2322.50    22610.70




                                            - 31 -

Table 3a: LVEMP Tanzania IDA Credit - By Expenditure/Disbursement Category
in USD '000                                    IDA
Category                        Allocated Disbursed Undisbursed
Civil works                         166.65     165.50        1.15
Vehicles and Equipment            2,225.91   1,884.77      341.15
Consultant Services and Training  3,793.50   3,578.26      215.24
Goods, Works, Services              959.45     850.12      109.33
Operating Costs                   3,186.98   3,892.37     -705.39
Unallocated                           0.00        0.00       0.00
Special Account                       0.00     -38.52       38.52
Totals                           10,332.49 10,332.49         0.00



Table 3b: LVEMP Tanzania IDA Supplemental Credits - By Expenditure/Disbursement Category
in USD '000                             IDA Supplemental               IDA Supplemental 2
Category                        Allocated Disbursed Undisbursed Allocated Disbursed Undisbursed
Civil works                         369.02     28.03     340.99    211.08     64.15      146.93
Vehicles and Equipment              479.77    503.17      -23.39   222.89    559.77      -336.88
Consultant Services and Training  2,472.42  1,491.41     981.01  1,092.29  1,497.78      -405.49
Goods, Works, Services              479.72    147.33     332.39    216.98     81.79      135.19
Operating Costs                   2,103.40  3,682.48   -1,579.08 1,799.33  1,350.40      448.93
Unallocated                           0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
Special Account                       0.00     51.87      -51.87     0.00    -11.32       11.32
Totals                            5,904.33  5,904.28       0.05  3,542.57  3,542.57        0.00



Table 3c: LVEMP Tanzania GEF Grant - By Expenditure/Disbursement Category
in USD '000                                    GEF
Category                        Allocated Disbursed Undisbursed
Civil works                         103.32     143.83      -40.51
Vehicles and Equipment            2,155.06   2,106.37       48.69
Consultant Services and Training  3,586.85   4,369.47     -782.62
Goods, Works, Services                0.00        0.00       0.00
Operating Costs                   3,690.18   4,060.03     -369.86
Unallocated                       1,092.29        0.00   1,092.29
Special Account                       0.00     -52.00       52.00
Totals                           10,627.70 10,627.70         0.00




                                            - 32 -

Table4: LVEMP Tanzania - By Component and Financing Sources
Components (in USD, '000)        As of 12/15/05  Percent
Fisheries Research                     3,508.58      13%
Fisheries Management                   5,735.06      21%
Water Quality Management               5,923.85      21%
Water Hyacinth Control                 2,766.67      10%
Wetland Management                     2,063.38       7%
Soil and Water Conservation            1,019.58       4%
Catchment Afforestation                1,712.77       6%
Support to Riparian Universities         765.96       3%
Cordinating Secretariat                4,251.23      15%
Total                                 27,747.08     100%




                                              - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

A standard ERR was not estimated in the SAR, due to the focus of the project on capacity strengthening
and institutional reform. Further, the lack of adequate monitoring and valuation of impacts of various
project activities had resulted in sparse data of the kind needed to estimate an ERR. The section aims to
provide some indicative socio-economic data and a discussion on the Potential Benefits, as done in the
SAR.

The Lake Basin economy is driven by Agriculture and Fisheries (70 percent), including a number of cash
crops (including fish exports) and a high level of subsistence fishing and agriculture. It produces in the
order of USD 5 billion annually (2000-04), increasing from the estimated USD 3-4 billion, in 1996.
Population in the Lake Basin, in that time, has gone up from 25 million to an estimated 30 million people,
while general standards of living are between USD 90-270 per capita per annum (based on national
figures). The quality of the environment and the status of the natural resources are critical factors in the
maintenance and growth of incomes, livelihoods and poverty alleviation opportunities in these countries.

Among the gross benefits expected in the SAR, are avoided losses related to decline in fishery as a result of
over-fishing and deterioration in water quality, impacts of water hyacinth infestation, poor quality of water
supply for domestic and animal uses, and continued degradation of wetlands.

Fisheries contribute about three percent of the GDP of the riparian countries. Fish production for the whole
lake is currently estimated to be between 400,000 to 600,000 metric tons worth USD 400 to 600 millions
annually. In Tanzania, sixty percent of total fish production comes from Lake Victoria, the majority of
which comes from artisanal fishery. Estimations of gross employment in this sector range from 500,000
people in Tanzania (Odongkara et al., 2005) including fishers, fish traders, and fish processors and net
menders, to about 2.6 million people (National Fisheries Synthesis Report). The value of the export fishery
of the lake is currently it is estimated at USD 270 million. The Nile perch products are exported to Europe,
Australia, Asia, Africa and America. In 2004, the total export was 42,354 tons valued at USD 100.1
million and the total Royalty to Fisheries Division was about USD 6.4 million (Fisheries Division, 2004).
The total cumulative exports of Nile perch fish and fishery products from Lake Victoria for the last nine
years (1995 to 2004) was about 320,000 tons valued at USD 704 million (F.O.B value) of which the
Fisheries Division received at total of USD 32.94 million as royalty.

The sudden drop of the trend for year 1999 and 2002 was due to the import ban imposed by single largest
European markets caused by concerns that fish and fishery products were contaminated by pesticides as
well as implementation of slot size 50-85 cm in the fish processing plants, respectively. In 1999 total export
of Nile perch products was 25,914.079 metric tons valued at USD 55 million (F.O.B. value) and in 2002,
total annual export was 29,212.3 tons valued at USD 88 million. The project helped implement various
management measures and improve quality assurance to address this issue. A rough estimation, assuming,
very conservatively, that the ban caused a 12 percent drop in total exports (based on export data, that
indicates exports to other markets and decline in the rate of increase of exports due to increasing CPUE)
indicates that this led to an avoided loss of about 24 million in the period 2000-2005, while the cost of
upgrading the fish quality laboratory was in the range of USD 500,000 and the entire fisheries management
component (for the life of the project) was 16.3 million.

Domestic consumption estimates vary considerably from a likely USD 100 million to as much as USD 600
million per annum. FAO data from the period 1978-01 indicate that contribution of fish protein to the
Tanzanian population has remained stable since in the 1990's and early 2000's, at the level observed in
1979, after an increasing rate in the 1980s.



                                                      - 34 -

Data have not been collected for a sufficient time to accurately estimate the Maximum Sustainable Yield
(MSY) and there have been disagreements between Tanzania and Kenya, and Uganda regarding the
estimates. The National Fisheries Synthesis Report estimates MSY for the Lake to be about 348,184 tons
from the acoustic survey and 220,000 tons from the trawl surveys (1999 ­ 2002 surveys). Fish prices have
been stable during the period of late nineties and early 2000's at around one dollar.

There have been additional impacts of the sector activities on natural resources that have not been
monitored. Boat building spurred by the growth in the commercial fisheries sectors has resulted in over
60,000m3 of wood to be cut, causing deforestation and environmental degradation over a number of islands
and at landing sites. The various fisheries management measures are likely to contribute to reducing this
impact.

The SAR estimated that the wide-range of direct costs on the lake community as a result of the spread of
water hyacinth, including those arising from transportation (delays in transport, increased operation costs,
loss in fishing time, increased difficulty collecting water, blockage of intakes and loss of production at
urban and industrial water supply systems, to about USD 6-10 million per annum. The Water Hyacinth
infestation has been reduced to non-nuisance levels. Indicative avoided costs range to more than 30-50
million in the period 2000-2005 for the whole Lake.The cost of the water hyacinth control activities was 10
million over the life of the project.




                                                      - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/21/1992                1    1 TASK TEAM LEADER
              3/1/1993                  3    1 TASK TEAM LEADER, 1
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT OFFICER, 1
                                             CONSULTANT
              4/27/1994                 2    1 TASK TEAM LEADER, 1
                                             INSTUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT OFFICER
              6/14/1994                 2    1 TASK TEAM LEADER, 1
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT OFFICER
              7/29/1994                 2    1 TASK TEAM LEADER, 1
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT OFFICER
              10/9/1994                 2    1 TASK TEAM LEADER, 1
                                             INSTUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT OFFICER
              2/11/1995                 2    1 TASK TEAM LEADER, 1
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT OFFICER
              5/26/1995                 2    1 TASK TEAM LEADER, 1
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT OFFICER

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/1-22/1995
              05/20-22/1996

 Supervision

              11/25/1997                9    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             WATER SANITATION (1);
                                             COMMUNICATIONS (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             ANTHROPOLOGY (2);
                                             PARTICIPATION (1); INFO.
                                             TECH. ANALYST (1);
                                             MONITORING (1)
              05/02/1998                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CO-LEADER (1);
                                             PARTICIPATION (1);
                                             LIMNOLOGY (1);
                                             ANTHROPOLOGY (1)
              01/28/2000                8    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             MICRO PROJ/COMM PART.
                                             (1); WATER QUALITY



                                              - 36 -

                      LIMNOLOG (1); NORAD
                      OBSERVER (1);
                      INTERNATIONAL WATERS
                      (1); MONITORING AND EVAL
                      (1); ENVIRONMENT
                      SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                      ANALYST (1)
      2/12/2001     5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1),        HS    HS
                      SOCIO-ECONOMIST (1),
                      LIMNOLOGIST (1), WATER
                      QUALITY (1), COMMUNITY
                      PARTICIPATION (1)
      2/19/2002     9 BANK STAFF (7),
                      CONSULTANTS (2)
      5/5/2003      5 TEAM LEADER (1),             HS    HS
                      PROCUREMENT (1),
                      FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                      (1), CONSULTANT (2)
      4/19/2004     5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1),        S     S
                      MICRO PROJECTS (1), LAND
                      MANAGEMENT
                      &AFFORESTATION (1),
                      FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                      (1), PROCUREMENT (1),
                      FISHERIES, CAPACITY
                      BUILDING (1)
      9/20/2004     7 TASK TEAM LEADAER            S     S
                      (1),MICROPROJECTS,
                      WETLAND (1), LAND
                      MANAGEMENT
                      AFFORESTATION (1),
                      CAPACITY BUILDING (1),
                      FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                      (1), PROCUREMENT (1),
                      FISHERIES (1)
      4/20/2005     8 TASK TEAM LEADER (1), SR.
                      SECTOR ECONOMIST(1), SR.
                      SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                      SPECIALIST (1), SR.
                      PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1), SR. SOCIAL PROTECTION
                      SPECIALIST (1), TEAM
                      ASSISTANT (1),
                      CONSULTANTS (2)

ICR
      03/13/2006    3 TASK TEAM                    S     S
                      LEADER/ENVIRONMENT
                      AL ECONOMIST (1),
                      ENVIRONMENTAL
                      SPECIALIST/INDEPENDE
                      NT CONSULTANT (1),
                      GEF
                      SPECIALIST/OBSERVER



                      - 37 -

                                                   (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    n.a.                          91*
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         n.a.                            *
  Supervision                                  54**                           730
  ICR                                             15                           70
  Total                                         n.a.                          871
Notes:
* Total amount for Identification/Preparation and Appraisal/Negotiation
** Partial data for the years FY01-05
Amounts include BB and GEFBB funds




                                                   - 38 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
The overall Bank performance is Moderately Satisfactory and the overall Borrower performance is
Moderately Satisfactory.

Bank Lending Moderately Satisfactory
Bank Supervision Moderately Satisfactory

Borrower Preparation Moderately Satisfactory
Government Implementation Satisfactory
Implementing Agencies Moderately Satisfactory




                                                    - 40 -

 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. World Bank. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR7 Million to the
    Republic of Tanzania Report No2908. Washington D.C. 1996.
 2. World Bank. Lake Victoria Environmental Management Program, Project Document, Report
    No015541-AFR. Washington D.C. June, 1996
 3. World Bank. Lake Victoria Environmental Management Program, Staff Appraisal Report, Report
    No015429-AFR. Washington D.C. June, 1996
 4. World Bank. Memorandum of the President, Report No. P-6843 AFR, June 1996
 5. World Bank. Aide-Memoirs' from Project Identification Mission in 1992 to last Supervision Mission in
    December 2005. Washington D.C.
 6. World Bank. Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project, Supplemental Credit, Report
    No.P7519, June, 2002
 7. World Bank. Implementation Completion Report, Draft Final Report, December, 2005
 8. World Bank. Tanzania - Country assistance strategy (CAS), Report No. 20728, June 2000
 9. World Bank. Back To Office Reports for. The Lake Victoria Environmental Management Program
    (FY1994) Project ID: P040551 ­Loan/Credit No.2908:). Washington D.C.
10. World Bank. Development Credit Agreement No. 2908-TA, Washington, DC, September 1996
11. World Bank. Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement No. 2908-1, Washington, DC,
    February 2002
12. World Bank. Third Annual Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) Progress Report and Joint
    IDA-IMF Staff Assessment, Report No. 28966, May, 2004
13. World Bank. Supplemental Credit Document, Report No. 29925-TZ, Washington, DC, September
    2004
14. World Bank. Second Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement No. 2908-2, Washington,
    DC, November 2004
15. World Bank. Legal Opinion on the Second Agreement Amending Development Credit
    Agreement for Lake Victoria Environment Management Project, December 2004
16. World Bank. Tanzania - Supplemental Credit to the Lake Victoria Environmental
    Management Project), Report No. P7496, November 2001
17. World Bank. Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis and Strategic Action Program Development for the
    Lake Victoria Basin Project, Report No. 29872, March 2004
18. World Bank. Knowledge and Experiences gained from managing The Lake Victoria Ecosystem, 2005
19. World Bank/UNEP. Discussion Paper on Regional Program for Environmental Management of Lake
    Victoria, November, 1992
20. World Bank. Tanzania Stocktaking Report, Draft, July, 2003
21. World Bank. Implementation Completion Report, Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project,
    Period July 1997 ­ December 2005, Draft Final Report, December, 2005
22. World Bank. Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project, Phase 1, Revised Draft, Scientific
    Stocktaking Report, Progress during LVEMP1 and Challenges for the Future, Prepared by, Robert
    Hecky, August 25, 2003
23. Regional Synthesis report on fisheries Research and Management, Jeppe Kolding, Paul van Zwieten,
    Julius Manyala, John Okedi, Yusif Magaya, Faustino Orach-Meza; Maun, Wageningen,
    Dar-es-Salaam, December, 2005.
24. Lessons learned report on the Institutional Framework, Dr. Samuel M. Nyantahe, August 2005
25. National Report on National Consultancy for Preparation of Lessons Learnt Report on
    LVEMP Institutional Framework for the Lake Victoria Basin, Final Report, Dr. Samuel M.
    Nyantahe, Executive Director, Daima Associates Limited, Dar-es-Salaam, August, 2005



                                                   - 41 -

26. Fisheries Management Component, progress 1997-2005, Susan Imende, Component Coordinator
27. Land Use Management Brief, Naro-Kawanda, April, 2006
28. Report on Beneficiary Assessment of LVEMP Supported Micro-Projects in Lake Victoria Basin, Final
    Report, Julius Otieno Manyala, Consultant, February ­ April, 2005
29. Protocol on Sustainable Development of Lake Victoria Basin, November 2003
30. World Bank: Independent Evaluation of the Support of Regional Programs, Case Study, Shawki
    Barghouti, 2006
31. Beneficiary Assessment (B.A) For LVEMP, Components- Soil And Water Conservation,
    Wetlands Management, Catchments Afforestation, Micro-Projects And Community
    Participation, by: Professor I.K Musoke, Lead Consultant, Dr. M. Nyirabu, Consultant, Mr.
    D.K Rweyemamu, Consultant, Mr. C. Kadonya, Consultant, December 2005
32. Beneficiary Assessment (B.A) For LVEMP, Components- Soil And Water Conservation,
    Wetlands Management, Catchments Afforestation, Micro-Projects And Community
    Participation, by: Professor I.K Musoke, Lead Consultant, Dr. M. Nyirabu, Consultant, Mr.
    D.K Rweyemamu, Consultant, Mr. C. Kadonya, Consultant, December 2005
33. Survey and Mapping of Land Use/Cover and Erosion Hazard in Lake Victoria Basin, Final Report,
    November 2001
34. Scientific Stocktaking Report, Progress During LVEMP1 and Challenges for the Future, Prepared by
    Robert Hecky, August 25, 2003
35. Third Overall Performance Study of the Global Environment Facility, ICF Consulting and partners,
    June 2005
36. GEF International Water Program Study, Prof. Laurence Mee, Prof John Okedi, Mr. Tim Turner, Ms.
    Paula Caballero, Dr. martin Bloxham Dr. Aaron Zazueta, October 2004




                                                 - 42 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Regional and Transboundary Related Issues

The problems connected to Lake Victoria have always been recognized as regional in nature, but
prior to the Project, had not been dealt with jointly by the riparian countries. Once the
deteriorating pollution problem and the related emergence of water hyacinth infestation in the
lake, as well as the over-fishing became obvious and in the beginning the 1990s, the need for a
regional program of actions was recognized. LVEMP came onboard as a regional multi-sectoral
comprehensive environmental management initiative with a view to address the problems in a
holistic way. The program was launched through a Tripartite Agreement signed on 15th August
1994 in Dar es Salaam covering in the first place the three EAC states. This was inherently
challenging given the political situation in the countries. There was a very low level of regional
cooperation and no other regional activities succeeded in getting off the ground, other than the
preparation and launch of LVEMP at that time. Furthermore, the relations between Kenya and the
donor community was strained.

The impact of the degrading Lake environment on the population was serious. Around 3 million
people were dependent directly from the fisheries sector activities. In addition, the human
activities of the steadily increasing number of people in the basin (today estimated to around 30
million people), in various ways were contributing to worsening the situation. Lake Victoria was,
and remains at risk from the major global environmental threats identified by the Global
Environmental Facility (GEF) in its Operational Strategy for International Waters:
        (a) degradation of water quality due to pollution from land-based activities;
        (b) introduction of non-indigenous (and often pervasively dominant and colonizing)
        species,
        (c) excessive exploitation of living resources, and
        (d) global climatic changes.

There is concern that the severity of the current drought, which in some parts has largely lasted
for three years and has contributed partly to the lake level reduction (the other factor is the
drawdown of the Lake for production of hydro-power by a riparian country), might be linked to
global climatic changes. The need for support from the Global Environment Facility's (GEF) was
thus fully justified and it was a key co-financier of the project, with a grant of 35 million
(accounting for 45 percent of the original project cost) in the first phase of the program.

The status of main issues of regional and transboundary nature that have been (and still are)
prevalent under the LVEMP, can be briefly listed as follows:
a) Political regional cooperation:
Until LVEMP was launched, the level of cooperation between the three countries at political level
had been low since the break-up of the first EAC cooperation in the later 70s. The planning and
launching of LVEMP, heavily facilitated by the international community with the World Bank and
GEF in the lead, was the first serious attempt to bring the parties together over the management
of common resources. Later on, the revitalized EAC was established, which currently is the
leading institution for political and overall coordination of the regional efforts. Finally, the Lake
Victoria Basin Commission (LVBC) was established in 2005, operational in Kisumu, Kenya from
mid-2006, and is now coordinating and facilitating the Lake Victoria Development Program



                                                 - 43 -

(LVDP) that encompasses various initiatives in the basin. (Figure 3 illustrates the interactions of
LVDP and the EAC Partnership with other main stakeholders, and Figure 4 shows some of the
main activities in the lake basin).

b) Technical and scientific regional cooperation:
With the launching of the LVEMP, the regional cooperation between scientists and other scholars
gained significant momentum and resulted in sharing of data and methodologies, preparing the
base for joint regional planning of research and monitoring activities and standard-setting.
Numerous seminars and workshops with regional participants in all the three countries have been
held. Communication links have been established, and these will continue to function during
LVEMP 2 and under other basin initiatives. Having said this, the regional dissemination of the
scientific project papers and reports has not been satisfactory, due to limited capacity and lack of
a sound information consolidation and sharing strategy and protocols. Dissemination and regional
cooperation in the future will largely be coordinated by the LVBC under EAC.

c) Fisheries:
LVEMP supported the establishment of Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization (LVFO). This
organization is now operational with substantial support from the European Union (EU),
especially in implementation of the comprehensive Lake Victoria Integrated Fisheries
Management Plan (IFMP). The harmonization of the fisheries legislation across the three
countries has been a large achievement, considering the competitive nature of the sector reflected
in the substantial monetary value of the fish industry and export. In spite of the efforts so far it is
clear that the fisheries sector still has some way to go in achieving a sustainable extractive level.
Over-fishing is still prevalent, notably in Uganda where the driving force is the increase in export
income and the substantial over-capacity in the fish processing industry (capacity utilization is less
than 50% at present). Notably, Uganda also disagrees to the level of sustainable fish harvest
established by the two other countries. There remains a need for ongoing monitoring of fish
extraction combined with additional awareness raising and enforcement of regulations among the
fishing communities.

d) Eutrophication of the Lake:
The high level of nutrients entering the lake enhanced the environment for water hyacinth
infestation. The infestation was significantly reduced (by around 85 percent) to non-nuisance
levels and is the most tangible and visible change on the lake. However, the pollution that
contributes to the nutrification remains a concern and is a priority for the next phase. Additional
the Kagera River (originating in Rwanda and Burundi), continues as a significant source of water
hyacinth, as the bio-control agents perform less well in the rivers as compared to the lake.
Research to deal with this problem continues. While data suggests that changes in Phosphorus
concentrations are not statistically significant (as noted by the project scientists), the trend and
impact of pollution entering the lake during the project period is less clear, given the nonlinear
nature of the Lake response to increases in nutrient concentrations. Experts, and indeed a
common sense assessment, indicate that the level of pollution, and related nutrients entering the
Lake, have increased, with an increased risk of impact on the lake.

This is a function of increased economic activity and a higher population in the basin resulting in



                                                - 44 -

increased municipal and industrial wastewater, and run-off from non-point urban and semi-urban
pollution sources, with few measures to treat the discharges. A few pilot measures have been
undertaken in the pilot catchment areas in the three countries to decrease the rural non-point
pollution through erosion, but these do not accumulate to a significant level of impact. The key
pollution sources in the near-shore areas are the surface run-off and wastewater from towns and
communities. The pollutants in the open lake waters are largely entering through precipitation
(atmospheric deposition) and are likely long-distance transported pollution from the land-based
activities (dust from wind, bush fires, etc.). It is not known whether this pollution is coming from
within or from outside of the Lake Victoria basin. A GEF supported program is seeking to
develop a monitoring program to track the sources of atmospheric deposition.

e) Land degradation in the region:
Land degradation is prevalent in certain areas of the basin, in all three countries. The still common
practice of bush fires, contributes partially, both directly and through increased erosion, to
atmospheric deposition (that accounts for around 84% N and 75% P) of nutrients into the Lake..
Over-grazing and unsustainable agricultural practices lead to increasing erosion and contribute to
the increased silt content in the rivers and subsequent sedimentation at the river months and a
certain distance into the lake itself. Rivers contribute to about 23% of total P and 15% of
Nitrogen into the lake. The loss of soil nutrients heavily constrains productivity of the land, with a
cyclical impact on poverty, livelihoods and resource health. The use of fertilizers is presently
limited in the area, but this is likely to change with the quest for improving agricultural
productivity. The project has started awareness raising and implementation of healthy farming
practices in pilot areas in the basin in all three countries, and these have lead to localized effects of
decreased soil erosion, increased yield and income for several farmers. Afforestation activities are
expected to have had a limited beneficial impact as well. Other add-on activities in the form of
micro-projects (notably protection of water sources, etc.) are supporting the anti-erosion efforts
by giving opportunities to harmful practices to the population.

f) The lake level and riparian communities:
An issue which has clearly surfaced during the last two years, is the rapidly falling lake level,
which cannot be linked to the LVEMP project, but which affects the outcomes of LVEMP
activities. About half the reduction in lake levels can be attributed to the last three years' drought
while the rest is a result of the over-abstraction of water for hydropower generation at Jinja, the
main energy source of Uganda.

The reduced lake level has significantly and negatively affected the communities living on the lake
shore. As the waters at the shore is shallow many places, the lake shore has moved several
hundred meter at some locations, leaving the landing piers far up on dry land and making access
to the lake difficult with boats and handling of fish more prone to pollution and reduced quality
(see attached photo from Musoma). The low water level has also dried up some of the wetlands,
resulting in people starting to cultivate in the wetlands (reference to photos form the Musoma and
Mara Regions in Tanzania). The retracting lake shore has posed high economic costs on the use
and maintenance of water supply infrastructures around the lake. The drying of wetlands also
have impact on fish biodiversity, wetland fishing, production and utilization of wetland products
for handicraft. In addition, the reduced level threatens the spawning grounds for fish, creating



                                                   - 45 -

potentially significant risks to the fishing effort.

g) Other initiatives in the basin:
Figure 4 shows that several initiatives are running concurrently in the basin, all having
environmental issues and natural resources as their main topics of concern. There are numerous
NGO-based activities, many having transboundary and regional approaches. These activities have
so far not been very actively or effectively coordinated, and this has contributed to duplication of
efforts and overlapping activities both geographically and thematically. The reasons for this lack
of holistic approach to the problems in the region could be many, both resulting from the various
donors specific requirements and needs to shows results coming from own financing, to the lack
of implementation and coordination capacity with the riparian countries. Hopefully, with the
LVBC operation in Kisumu, the challenge of coordination will be more effectively met in the
future.




                                                   - 46 -

           (Partnership Agreement)                                                                                              KENYA
                                                                                  EAC                                         LV Focal Point
                                                                                                                         Ministry: The Ministry of
                                                      EAC Secretariat                 LV Basin Commission
                                                                                             Sectoral Council            Environment and Natural
   Sweden (SIDA)                   Lake Victoria                                               (of Ministers)                  Resources
                                     Fisheries
                                                        (Supportin
     Lake Victoria                 Organisation        administration
       Initiative                    (LVFO)            and decision-                    Co-ordination Committee
                                                                                                                              TANZANIA
          (LVI)                                          making)                        (PSs, civil soc., priv, sec.)

                                                                                                          Sectoral            LV Focal Point
                                         (1 member)                                                     Committees       Ministry: The Ministry of
       Norway                                         LV Development                                                       Water and Livestock
                                                      Programme Unit                    Secretariat of the Comm.              Development
                                                           (former)
        France                (2
                              members                                                                                          UGANDA
                                                      (2+? members)
                              each)                                                                                           LV Focal Point
     World Bank
                                               Lake Victoria Development Programme                                       Ministry: The Ministry of
                                                                                                                            Water, Lands and
                                                                                                                              Environment.
     East-African                                                                                TheEAC
    Development                                                                                                          Other riparian country
         Bank                                         Partnership Consultative              Partnership
                                                          Committee (PCC)                                                ministries according to
                                                                                                                                 needs
                        (1 observer                     Partnership Fund Sub-
                                                                Committee                      Partnership
       Burundi               each)
                                                       (fund-contributing members)                 Fund


       Rwanda                                                                                                            National Stakeholder
                                                                                                                                Forums
                                                                       Various interventions, supported by                  (Once a year ?)
       Co-opted                                                            different sources of funding
       personal
       members
     (invited: IUCN,
     ICRAF, UNEP,                                                (2 members each, rotating chairmanship)
   LVRLAC, ECOVIC)                                                                                                       Nile Basin Initiative (NBI)

                                                                                                                                 NELSAP
      Figure 3.1: Partnership Agreement institutional framework (as per August 2005)


Figure 3: The Lake Victoria Development Programme and the EAC Partnership (Figure from EAC Partnership
Fund Review Report November 2005, by Tore Laugerud, NCG)




                                                                        - 47 -

                                          THE LAKE VICTORIA BASIN

                                                                                            Water and Sanitation
                                                                                             Programme (WSP)
                EAC-Lake Victoria                              LakeVictoria                        Africa
              Development Programme                            Environmental
                                                            Management Project
                  EAC Partnership
                      (LVDP)
                                                                 (LVEMP)
                 Agreement & Fund

                                                 Lake Victoria Region                        NELSAP
                                                 Local Authorities Co-                                                                The Applied training
             Mt. Elgon Regional                  Operation (LVRLAC)               European Union Water Initiative                            Project
                 Ecosystem                                                        (EUWI) ­Lake Victoria/Kagera

                Conservation                                                                Basin                                       TheConfidence
                                              East Africa Communities'                         The Kagera River Basin Integrated          Building and
                                                 Organisation for the                            Water Resources Management                Stakeholder
                                                 ManagementofLake                                                                     Involvement Project
                                                                                               Mara River Basin Transboundary
           Association for Strengthening          Victoria Resources
                                                                                                  Integrated Water Resources
              Agricultural Research in                (ECOVIC)
                                                                                                 ManagementandDevelopment            Efficient WaterUse for
             eastern and Central Africa                                                                     Project                  Agricultural Production
                                                                Lake Victoria Region                                                       (EWUAP)
                                                                Water and Sanitation           Sio-Malaba-Malakisi Catchments
                                                                                                Transboundary Integrated Water
                                                                     Initiative                   ResourcesManagementand                The Nile Region
             WWF-Lake Victoria                                                                       DevelopmentProject               RegionalPowerTrade
                  Catchment                                                                                                              Project (RPTP)
                Environmental             Cities development Strategy                          Enhanced Agricultural Productivity
                  Education                   for Improved Urban                                 Through Rainwater Harvesting,
                 Programme                 Environment and Poverty                                                                      Socio-economic
                                                                                              Small-Scale Irrigation and Livestock
                                             Reduction in the Lake                                                                     Development and
                                                                                                         Management
                                              Victoria Region (UN            Numerous                                                   Benefits Sharing
                                                                              smaller                                                   Project (SDBS)
                                                                                               Strategy for Scaling up NELSAP
              Ecological                                                     initiatives             Investment Projects
             Sanitation and                                                  by NGOs                                                  NileTransboundary
             Market-Based                                                    and CBOs            NELSAP Coordination Support          Environmental Action
                Product                 KusaCommunity ­ An Effort                                     Project(NEL-CU)                  Project (NTEAP)
             Development                Towards Poverty Reduction

           Around the Lake               (Kisumu District, Kenya)




Figure 4: Overview of key environmental interventions in the Lake Victoria Basin(Figurefrom
EACPartnershipFundReview ReportNovmber 2005, by Tore Laugerud, NCG)




                                                                          - 48 -

                                       Abandoned landing piers for boats, now far up
                                       on dry land




                          Farming on previous wetland areas


Effects of reduction of Lake Victoria water level at Musoma, Tanzania (© Tore laugerud, NCG March
2006)




                                                 - 49 -

Cultivation in dried up wetlands, Musoma, Tanzania (© Tore Laugerud, March 2006)




                                             - 50 -

Additional Annex 9. Project Timeline and Structure - Figures

Figure 1: Different Stages of LVEMP1


                                                                          LVEMP1 STAGES


                             LVEMP1 Mid-                                                        LVEMP1
                               term Review                                                    Stocktaking



                           LVEMP1 Project                                                                                                               3)
                                Document                                                                                 LVEMP-2 Preparations
                               (June 1996)




                                                                                            Kenya: Extension of GEF funds
                                                                                                                                                     Estimated
                                                                                                                                                     start 1 July




                                 LVEMP1                                                       Tanzania:                                              Bridging               LVEMP2
                                                                                            Supplementary                   1)           2)                                    (15 yrs)
                                                                                                 Credit                                                Phase




                                                                                            Uganda: Supplementary Credits



                      1997           1998            1999             2000          2001            2002           2003             2004           2005           2006              2007



NOTES:
1): Activities continued for 8 months with counterpart funds only
2): Supplementary Credit issued in June 2004, but delayed due to bureaucratic procedures
3): LVEMP-2 preparations funded by Japan (Policy and Human Resources Development) and GEF (Transboundary Diagnosis Analysis, incl. Burundi and Rwanda).
4): In total, almost USD 85 million has been spent under the project, around 52% of this being grants from GEF, the rest being credits from IDA. The distribution of the total funds
between the countries has been: Kenya-29%, Tanzania-35%, and Uganda 36%.




                                                                                     - 51 -

Figure 2: Overall Project Structure



                                   The World Bank (IDA)                      GEF




 Lake Victoria EnvironmentalManagementProject(LVEMP)

                                                     East African Community (EAC)

                                                            LVEMP Policy and Steering Committee


                                     Kenya                              Tanzania                             Uganda

  Tripartite Agreement     Implementing agencies                Implementing agencies               Implementing agencies
      (Aug. 1994)




                                                              Project components:

                       - Fisheries management                                   - Wetlands management
                       - Fisheries research                                     - Catchment afforestation
                       - Land Use/Soil conservation                             - Water quality and ecosystem management
                       - Industrial and municipal waste management              - Water hyacinth control
                       - Capacity building/riparian universities                - Micro-projects



                           Ministry "A"       Community"B"      Institution "C"   Stakeholder "A"   Ministry "E"  Stakeholder "N"




                                                          - 52 -

Additional Annex 10. List of Persons Contacted


Name                  Position/Title                Institution
                                 In TANZANIA
Raymond J. Mngodo National Coordinator (for         LVEMP, Ministry of Water (MAJI), Ubungo, Dar
                      Bridging Phase)
Stanley Matowo        National Focal Point Officer  Ministry of Water (MAJI), Ubungo, Dar
Hassan Mjengera       Director of Water             Ministry of Water (MAJI), Ubungo, Dar
                      Laboratories. Coordinator,
                      Water quality and Ecosystem
                      Management Components
                      (LVEMP)
Cecile Ramsay         Operations Advisor            The World Bank, Dar
Francisca F. Katagira Coordinator Water Hyacinth    Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security, Dar es
                      Control and Soil and Water    Salaam
                      Conservation
Peter Chisara         Coordinator, Wetlands         National Environment Management Council,
                                                    NEMC
Saidi Mbwana          Senior Operations Officer     LVEMP, Mwanza
Filemon Merik         Shopkeeper (wetlands          Bubinza Village, Magu District, Mwanza Region,
                      products), nursery caretaker
Juma Chalele          Field Team Leader, Kalamera LVEMP, Magu District Authorities, Mwanza
                      Catchment                     Region,
Henrik Brundin        Project Manager               VI Agroforestry Project, Musoma Town, Mara
                                                    Region
John Nnko             District Forestry Officer,    Musoma District, Mara Region
                      rural
Balige El             Team Leader, Mara, Soil and Musoma District, Mara Region
                      Water Conservation Musoma
John Kindia           Forest Assistant, rural       Musoma District, Mara Region
Jonathan A. Mmbaga Municipal Forest Officer         Musoma Municipality, Mara Region
Various people        Kwibuse Village               Tarime District, Mara Region
Farmer with woodlot Kuruya Village                  Tarime District, Mara Region
Revocathy Luhemeja Village Executive Officer        Nyatwali Village, Magu District, Mwanza Region
Women group and       Kalamera Village              Magu District, Mwanza Region
farmer
Dedan Sombe           Caretaker/Coordinator         Kyaka and Kyakairabwe weevil rearing stations
                                                    (Kagera river), Bukoba, Kagera Region
Marco Vita            Laboratory Officer            Maji water laboratory, Bukoba, Kagera Region
Monica Kishe          BMU Leader                    Nyamkazi Village, Mugezi Primary School for
                                                    disabled persons, Kahororo Dipensary Bukoba
Braison Meela         Ag. Task Leader, Fisheries    LVEMP, Ministry of Agriculture and Food



                                              - 53 -

                  Management Component           Security, Mwanza
Dominic S.        Scientist (Afsu), Fisheries    LVEMP, Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Mpelasoke         Management Component           Security, Mwanza,
Nchama S. Marwe   Scientist (FsA), Fisheries     LVEMP, Ministry of Agriculture and Food
                  Management Component           Security, Mwanza
Juma M. Makongoro Scientist (SFAOI), Fisheries   LVEMP, Ministry of Agriculture and Food
                  Management Component           Security, Mwanza
E. Kilosa         Scientist (SAFO), Fisheries    LVEMP, Ministry of Agriculture and Food
                  Management Component           Security, Musoma
A. N. Madundo     Scientist (SAFO), Fisheries    LVEMP, Ministry of Agriculture and Food
                  Management Component           Security, Tarime
Justin Mugarula   Scientist (DFso), Fisheries    LVEMP, Ministry of Agriculture and Food
                  Management Component           Security, Magu
Lameck Mongo      Scientist (PC IFMP),           LVEMP, Ministry of Agriculture and Food
                  Fisheries Management           Security, Mwanza
                  Component
Revania K. Waya   Scientist, Fish Biology,       LVEMP, Ministry of Agriculture and Food
                  Fisheries Research             Security, Mwanza
                  Component
Enok Mlaponi      Scientist, Fish                LVEMP, Ministry of Agriculture and Food
                  Culture/Aquaculture,           Security, Mwanza
                  Fisheries Research
                  Component
Mwandahamis A.    Scientist, Socioeconomics,     LVEMP, Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Salehe            Fisheries Research             Security, Mwanza
                  Component
Robert Kayanda    Scientist, Information &       LVEMP, Ministry of Agriculture and Food
                  Database, Fisheries Research Security, Mwanza
                  Component
Emmanuel R.       Task Leader, Soil and Water LVEMP, Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Mang'ombe         Conservation Component         Security, Mwanza
Desgratias Peter  Scientist, Soil and Water      LVEMP, Ministry of Agriculture and Food
                  Conservation Component         Security, Mwanza
Crydon M. Godwe   Land Use                       LVEMP, Ministry of Agriculture and Food
                  Planner/Cartographer, Soil     Security, Mwanza
                  and Water Conservation
                  Component
Peter M. Lupeja   Agronomist, Agro-chemicals LVEMP, Ministry of Agriculture and Food
                  Management, Soil and Water Security, Mwanza
                  Conservation Component
Emma T. Liwenga   Scientist (PhD), Soil and      Institute of Resource Management (IRA), Univ.
                  Water Conservation             of DSM
                  Component
Peter J.S. Mjema  Task Leader. Water Hyacinth LVEMP, Min. of Agriculture and Food Security,


                                           - 54 -

                    Control Component              Mwanza
Rajabu Cyprian Aloya Scientist, Water Hyacinth     LVEMP, Min. of Agriculture and Food Security,
                     Control Component             Bukoba
Joseph Ndunguru      Scientist, Water Hyacinth     LVEMP, Min. of Agriculture and Food Security,
                     Control Component             Mwanza
Dickson K.           Task Leader/Senior Scientist, LVEMP, Ministry of Water (MAJI), Mwanza
Rutagemwa            Water Quality Component
Vitalis P. Mnyanga   Team Leader/Senior            LVEMP, Ministry of Water (MAJI), Mwanza
                     Scientist, Water Quality
                     Component
Omary Myanza         Senior Scientist,             LVEMP, Ministry of Water (MAJI), Mwanza
                     Management of Pollution
                     Loading
Anna Mdamo           Team Leader, Wetland          LVEMP, National Environmental Management
                     Management Component          Council (NEMC), Mwanza
                     (Buffering Capacity of
                     Wetlands)
Baraka Sekadende     Wetland Ecologist, Wetland    LVEMP, National Environmental Management
                     Management Component          Council (NEMC), Mwanza
Ngataro Kimaro       Task Leader, Catchment        LVEMP, Ministry of Natural Resources and
                     Afforestation                 Tourism, Musoma
Ramesh Krishnan      General Manager               Nyanza Bottling Co. Ltd., Mwanza
Mercy Sabai          Financial Management          World Bank, Dar es Salaam
                     Specialist
Christopher M.       Regional/National executive   LVEMP1 Secretariat, Vice President's Office,
Nyirabu              Secretary LVEMP1              Dar es Salaam
Magaluda K.A.B.      Project Accountant            LVEMP1 Secretariat, Dar es Salaam
Magobe
Sofia Nhonoly        Ass. Management               LVEMP1 Secretariat, Dar es Salaam
                     Information Officer
Maila G.M. Makambi Procurement Officer             LVEMP1 Secretariat, Dar es Salaam
Rashid B. Hoza       Principal Fisheries Officer.  Fisheries Division, Ministry of Natural Resources
                     Coordinator, Fisheries        and Tourism
                     Management and Catchment
                     Afforestation Components
Marko Vitta         Laboratory Manager             Ministry of Water (MAJI)
John F. Machiwa      Senior Lecturer. Coordinator Faculty of Aquatic Sciences and Technology,
                     of Capacity Building/Riparian Dept. of Zoology, University of Dar es Salaam
                     University Component
                                ELSEWHERE
Ladisy K. Chengula   LVEMP Team Leader             The World Bank, Nairobi
Ernst Lutz           Former LVEMP Team             The World Bank, Washington
                     Leader/Current Back-up



                                             - 55 -

                 Team Leader
William Lane     Former LVEMP Team              ---"---
                 Leader
Richard Kaguamba Former LVEMP Team              ---"---
                 Leader
Graeme Donovan   Former LVEMP Team              Retiree
                 Leader
Robert Hecky     Senior Scientist, Water        Waterloo University , Canada
                 Quality/ Limnology
Ian Cowx         Senior Scientist, Fisheries    Hull University, U.K.
Alfred M. Duda   Senior Advisor, International Global Environmental facility (GEF), Washington
                 Waters
Andrea Merla     Advisor, International Waters ---"---




                                          - 56 -

- 57 -

