Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2908 TA
                        Development Credit Agreement
                (Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project)
                                   between
                          UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                                    and
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated September 10, 1996
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER  2908 TA
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 10 , 1996, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 1 to the
Joint Project Agreement of even date herewith, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of such Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), acting as an implementing
agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant
funds provided to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF Trust
Fund) by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF, to
provide additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and
by the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (Tanzania
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement) of even date herewith, the Bank is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to seven million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 7,200,000);
Page  2
     (C)  The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant provided
for in the Tanzania GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement be disbursed on
account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements
of the proceeds of the Credit are made;
     (D)  The Borrower, the Republic of Kenya (Kenya) and the Republic
of Uganda (Uganda) have also requested the Association and the Bank,
acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, to assist in the financing
of the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Joint Project Agreement
and by agreements of even date herewith between Kenya and Uganda
respectively, and the Association and the Bank, acting as an implementing
agency of the GEF (the IDA Credit Agreements and GEF Trust Fund Grant
Agreements, respectively), the Association and the Bank, acting as an
implementing agency of the GEF, are agreeing to provide such assistance
in an aggregate amount equivalent to SDR 16,900,000, and SDR 17,600,000,
respectively;
     (E)  the Project will be carried out in accordance with the Joint
Project Agreement among the Borrower, Kenya, Uganda, the Association,
and the Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Joint Project
Agreement, of even date herewith, among the Borrower, Kenya, Uganda,
the Association, and the Bank acting as an implementing agency of the
GEF;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                         General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) con-
stitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
     (b)  the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawal shall be made: (a) on account of expen-
          ditures in the territories of any country which is not a
          member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
          any payment to persons or entities or any imports of goods,
          if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Asso-
          ciation is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
          Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of
          the United Nations.".
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this
Agreement and the Joint Project Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (b)  "Joint Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith among the Borrower, Kenya, Uganda, the Association and the
Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Joint Project Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
Page  3
                                 The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out, of the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a)
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from
the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the
currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies
as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing
September 1, 2006, and ending March 1, 2036. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on March 1, 2016, shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms
Page  4
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Joint Project Agreement
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to the Joint Project
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                               ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expen-
ditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
Page  5
          (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
               audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Association shall have reasonably
               requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association
               has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
               or payment out of the Special Accounts was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
               and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
         (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                   ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the Borrower, Kenya or Uganda shall have failed to perform any
of their obligations under the Joint Project Agreement;
     (b)  as a result of events which have occurred after the date of
this Agreement an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Borrower, Kenya or Uganda will be able to
perform their obligations under the Joint Project Agreement;
     (c)  the Tripartite Agreement shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the ability of the Borrower, Kenya or Uganda to perform any of their
obligations under the Joint Project Agreement;
     (d)  (i)  subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower, Kenya or Uganda to
                    withdraw the proceeds of any loan or grant made
                    to the Borrower, Kenya or Uganda for the financing
                    of the Project shall have been suspended,
                    cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
                    pursuant to the terms thereof, or
               (B)  any such loan shall have become due and payable
                    prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
          (ii) Paragraph (d) (i) (A) of this Section shall not apply
Page  6
               if the Borrower, Kenya or Uganda establishes to the
               satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such suspen-
               sion, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
               caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any
               of its obligations under such agreement; and (B)
               adequate funds for the Project are available to the
               Borrower, Kenya or Uganda from other sources on terms
               and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
               Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower; and
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (A) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d)
(ii) of that Section.
                               ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the other
IDA Credits and GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreements, other than those
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
     (b)  the Borrowers have confirmed the membership of the Regional
Policy and Steering Committee;
     (c)  the Borrowers have strengthened the three National Secretariats
by the appointment of a Head of Secretariat, in accordance with paragraph
2 of Schedule 2 to the Joint Project Agreement, an Accountant, Disburse-
ment and Procurement Officer, an Operations Officer and a Management
Information Systems Officer, all with experience and qualifications
acceptable to the Association;
     (d)  the Borrowers have appointed the panel of internationally
renowned scientists in accordance with Paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the
Joint Project Agreement;
     (e)  the Borrowers have furnished evidence satisfactory to the
Association that they have agreed on common standard methods for
measuring and monitoring water quality;
     (f)  the Borrowers have furnished evidence satisfactory to the
Association that they have each made budgetary allocation representing
their first year contribution to the Project; and
     (g)  the Borrowers have finalized and furnished to the Association,
the Project Implementation Plan, work plans and financial plans,
satisfactory to the Association, for the first year of the Project
Implementation Plan.
     Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association,
namely that the Joint Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the parties, and is legally binding upon the parties in
accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
Page  7
                               ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 9111
          Dar es Salaam
          United Republic of Tanzania
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               TREASURY                      41329
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INDEVAS                       248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
               By /s/ Mustafa Nyang'anyi
                                               Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                                                  Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
Page  8
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                500,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
(2)  Vehicles and             1,180,000         100% of foreign
     equipment                                  expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)  Consultants'             1,530,000         100%
     services and training
(4)  Goods, works,              520,000         90%
     and services for
     Microprojects
(5)  Operating costs          2,570,000         90%
(6)  Unallocated                700,000
     TOTAL                    7,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "operating costs" means incremental operating
expenditures incurred in carrying out the Project, including office
supplies, office equipment, utilities and other offices related
expenditures, operation and maintenance of the buildings, office space,
aircraft, boats, vehicles and other equipment, including fuel and
lubricants, and field allowances.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for
(a) goods and works under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent,
(b) for consultants' contracts, not exceeding $100,000 for firms and
$50,000 for individuals; (c) all operating costs, and (d) goods, works
and services for microprojects, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in January 1995, and revised in January 1996, (the Guidelines), and
the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall
Page  9
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
     (a)  Grouping of contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more each.
     (b)  Notification and Advertising
     The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8
of the Guidelines.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,800,000, equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,500,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
3.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guide-
lines.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association, for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
Page  10
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall
not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equi-
valent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall
not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract
value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                               Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$500,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account concerned, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
          (ii) Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the
Page  11
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
               which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
               such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid out
               of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Association may request, or (B) deposit
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such out-
standing amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  12
