Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17756
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRAT'ED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2173-IN)
April 28, 1998
Health, Population and Nutrition Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 23, 1998)
Currency Unit    =  Indian Rupee (Rs.)
Rupee 1          =  US$0.025
US$1.00          =  Rupee 39.50
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACDPO                     Assistant Child Development Project Officer
APERP                     Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Project
AWC                       Anganwadi Center
AWW                       Anganwadi Worker
ANM                       Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife
CARE                      Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere
CDPO                      Child Development Project Officer
CSSM                      Child Survival and Safe Motherhood Project
DPEP                      District Primary Education Project
DTT                       District Training Teams
DWCD                      Department of Women and Child Development
DWCRA                     Developing Women and Children in Rural Areas
GOI                       Govenmment of India
ICDS                      Integrated Child Development Services
IDA                       Intemational Development Association
IMR                       Infant Mortality Rate
LBW                       Low Birth Weight
NNMB                      National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau
PMU                       Project Management Unit
SAR                       Staff Appraisal Report
SRS                       Sample Registration System
TINP                      Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project
WILL                      Women's Integrated Learning for Life
Vice President                Mieko Nishimizu
Director                      Edwin Lim
Sector Manager                Richard Skolnik
Team Leader                   Anthony Measham



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2173-IN)
CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary                                                       ii
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Project Objectives                                           1
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives                           3
C.    Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation              9
D.    Project Sustainability                                      10
E.    Bank Performance                                            10
F.    Borrower Performance                                        11
G.   Assessment of Outcome                                        11
H.   Future Operation                                             II
I.    Lessons Learned                                             12
PART II: Statistical Tables
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments                              15
Table 2:    Related Bank Credits                                  17
Table 3:    Project Timetable                                    20
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements                                21
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation            22
Table 6:     Studies Included in the Project                     24
Table 7A:    Project Costs                                       27
Table 7B:    Project Financing                                   28
Table 8:     Status of Legal Covenants                           29
Tablle 9:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements       33
Table 10:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                        34
Table 11:    Bank Resources: Missions                            35
APPENDICES
Appendix A. The ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire
Appendix B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2173-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Integrated Child
Development Services Project in India (Credit No. 2173-IN). The total credit amount of US$106
million, which was approved on October 23, 1990 and made effective on January 28, 1991,
included an IBRD share of US$10 million and an IDA share of US$96 million (SDR 73.6 million
equivalent). This amount was subsequently revised to include only an IDA credit of US$74.35
million.
The credit closed on the original closing date of December 31, 1997 and was fully
disbursed.
This ICR was prepared by Anthony Measham (Task Leader) and Stuart Gillespie
(Consultant), with technical assistance from Kathleen Finn, P. Subramaniam, Alaka Singh, Meera
Priyadarshi, R. Sethuraman and Krishna D. Rao. Nira Singh provided office technology
assistance. The ICR was reviewed by Richard Skolnik (Sector Manager, SASHP) and Kazuko
Uchimura (Project Advisor, SARRI).
Preparation of this ICR began during the November 1997 supervision mission. It is based
on material in the project files, field visits, and discussions with beneficiaries, project staff,
Government officials and Bank staff. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
preparing its own evaluation of the project with the assistance of the State Governments of
Andhra Pradesh (GOAP) and Orissa (GOO). Comments on the draft report were received from
the Borrower and taken into account in the final version. However, the Borrower in both states
was more positive regarding the achievement of project objectives than Bank staff. In particular,
Bank staff were not convinced that the project could have been responsible for most of the
improvement in impact indicators, since many key process indicators performed relatively poorly.
The cooperation and assistance of GOI and the State Governments of Andhra Pradesh and
Orissa is gratefully acknowledged.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2173-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Following the Tamnil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project (TIMP I) in the 1980s, the
Integrated Child Devielopment Services (ICDS I) Project in Andhra Pradesh and Orissa was the
second nutrition operation to be supported by the World Bank in India. Implementation of ICDS I
coincided with TINE, HI. Other related Bank-assisted projects in India which soughit to improve
family welfare and reduce maternal and child morbidity and mortality during the 1970s and 1980s
include seven population projects, and the Child Survival and Safe Motherhood Project.
Project Objectives
2.    The broad ovrerall objective of the ICDS I project was to improve the nutrition and health
status of children under six years of age, with special emphasis on 0-3 year-olds, and pregnant and
lactating women, in the states of Andhra Pradesh and Orissa. Specifically, the project aimed to
halve rates of severe malnutrition amnong 6-36 month-old children, increase by 25% the
proportion in normal or mnild malnutrition grades, reduce the incidence of low birth weight by
30% in Andhra Pradesh and 20% in Orissa; and contribute towards a reduction in the infant
mortality rate to 60 per 1 000 live births in Andhra Pradesh and to 1 00 per 1 000 live births in
Orissa.
3.    The project covered a total of 301 rural, predominantly tribal blocks in both states,
covering an estimated 12.9 million population in 13 districts of Andhra Pradesh, and 9.5 miillion in
12 districts of Orissa.
4.    Project strategy centered on the following approaches: (a) improving maternal nutrition
through strengthenedi antenatal care and on-site food supplementation for high risk women by
mid-pregnancy; (b) iimproving household health and nutrition behavior through communications
and community mobilization; (c) increasing health service coverage to prevent or reduce the
detrimental effect of infections and refer severely malnourished children to the appropriate levels
of the health care system; and finally; (d) providing therapeutic food supplementation to
malnourished under-three year-old children.
5.    These four strategic approaches were to be supported by strengthened systems of
management, training), communications, logistics, monitoring and evaluation. In addition, the
following three innoviations were planned: (a) supervision was to be improved through better



ii
training, reorganized work routines, and the addition of a block-level supervisor;
(b) supplementary feeding criteria were to be modified, if warranted, by the findings of
operational research, in order to more effectively prevent malnutrition among the youngest
children; and (c) women's programs were intended to enrich the ICDS through optimizing
community support and participation.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    The delay in reporting the terminal evaluation has prevented a conclusive judgement being
made on the project's progress towards its objectives. The 1996 mid-term review, also delayed,
points to significant differences between the two states in project outcomes. Andhra Pradesh
appears to have made significant progress towards the main nutritional impact objectives, while
the nutritional situation in Orissa may have actually worsened. On the other hand, Orissa has
surpassed its infant mortality reduction objective, while the situation in Andhra Pradesh has
remained largely unchanged. The limitations regarding the reliability and representativeness of low
birth weight incidence data preclude an accurate assessment of progress towards this objective,
but it is unlikely that the project contributed much to improvements in this area. One of the main
problems experienced in this project was the poor planning and implementation of monitoring and
evaluation. Overall, the process indicators suggest that the project is unlikely to have made much
of a dent in any of the impact objectives, and the changes noted are mainly due to secular trends.
7.    Service delivery on the whole was quite poor, particularly with regard to the main
nutrition interventions of child weighing and supplementary feeding. This was associated with
inadequate training in general and particularly the missed opportunities of employing supervisors
as local trainers. There were also significant delays in the development of a communications
strategy which constrained communications efforts and the quality of service delivery, although
Andhra Pradesh made some late progress through an interim strategy. On the community
mobilization front, there were significant examples of local-level success which suggest there is
potential for an active sustained involvement of communities in the ICDS program.
8.    A fundamental problem of program philosophy affected the implementation of this and the
ICDS II project. ICDS is widely viewed, by political leaders, bureaucrats, functionaries and
beneficiaries alike, as a government program providing pre-school education and child feeding. In
contrast to TINP, no major effort has been taken to market the program as one aimed at
preventing malnutrition through behavior change among mothers. This accounts in large
measure for the preoccupation of GOI and the states with quantity over quality, and their related
lack of interest in research and evaluation. As a result, and as shown in multiple evaluations,
ICDS has relatively limited impact on its main objective of reducing malnutrition. Social indicators
are better in ICDS blocks than non-ICDS blocks, and ICDS runs better in Bank-financed blocks
than in other blocks. But despite strenuous efforts over many years, the Bank has not succeeded
in its efforts to promote in ICDS, the kind of behavior-change program Tamil Nadu succeeded in
harnessing through TINP.



ii
9.    Many operational research studies were initiated although their completion was usually
delayed into the final years of the project, thus limiting their utility. The mid-term review was
delayed until the middle of the penultimate year of the project. A significant advance was however
made with the development of an information system in Andhra Pradesh, which has since served
as a model for other states. Monitoring in Orissa on the other hand was relatively weak. The fact
that quantity (of hardware) took precedence over quality (of software) in the project, was most
clearly reflected in the prioritization of indicators for monitoring. In both states, the monitoring
and indeed the achievement of fiscal and physical targets was better than with regard to other
process and outcome indicators.
10.   The prospect for sustaining the project in Orissa and Andhra Pradesh is quite good given
the expressed commitment of the national and state governments and the overall commitment of
the Government of I]ndia to universalize the ICDS within the next few years.
Key Lessons Learned
11.   Ensure Service Quality. One main lesson learned is that high quality and timely training of
project functionaries is a sine qua non for high quality service delivery. It is also essential to
prioritize inter-personal communications for home-based behavior change if a sustained impact is
to be expected on moderate, as well as severe, child malnutrition. The role of additional
supervisor, as initially envisaged, should have been focused on supporting the anganwadi worker
in appropriate nutritional counseling during targeted home visits -- yet these posts were not filled
in this project. The national training curriculum for AWWs and supervisors requires a greater
focus on strengthening capabilities to prevent malnutrition among very young children, in their
own homes. Timely job and refresher training backed up by one-to-one support of the anganwadi
worker by the supervisor should be the bedrock of such capacity-building in projects of this type.
12.   Avoid Overemphasizing Food. A second, related lesson concerns the need for an increased
emphasis on the health and care-related factors determining nutrition outcomes in the youngest
children. Food supplementation should not be considered as the raison d'etre of the project, but
rather as one of several means to improve child growth and nutrition. Such a pervasive food
distribution bias has reduced the attention and priority attached to inter-personal communications
and counseling, which are vital to improve the care-related determinants of child nutrition.
13.   Prioritize Operational Research. Third, operational research needs to focus on a reduced
number of high quality, carefully conducted and punctually reported studies to be carried out
within the first 2-3 years of the project, in order that findings can be used to improve the project.
One important overriding question to be addressed is how, in a future beyond externally-
supported programs, can all the food, health and care preconditions for child nutritional well-
being be ensured and sustained in rural India. The quality and timeliness of mid-term reviews and
endline surveys also needs to be improved. Better procurement planning, improved quality
assessment of bidding agency proposals, timely monitoring of implementation and follow-up of
specific recommendations are also required. Failure to comply with covenants in such areas
should be considered as grounds for project suspension in future.



iv
14.  Improve Monitoring and Evaluation. Fourth, more importance needs to be attached to
monitoring, with respect to quality in general, and the need to more visibly track progress towards
the impact objectives in particular. Child nutritional status data need to be made more visible at all
levels in the project management system, and to be used for improved action where outcomes are
lagging. Evaluation planning and implementation needs to be significantly improved.
15.   Strategic Issues. ICDS I brought into sharp focus three strategic program issues:
*   the bias towards expansion (quantity) over quality;
*   the under-funding of training; and
*   the one-worker versus two-worker model.
The project demonstrated clearly that rapid expansion of ICDS into new blocks usually comes at
the expense of service quality. It appears that the Bank contributed to this problem by financing a
project that was beyond the absorptive capacity of the two states. The hardware components
were completed but quality of training, communications, and services was not up to the mark.
16.   Experience with ICDS I and preparation of the forthcoming WCD project and ICDS
component of APER project have brought out the fact that the current finance norms for training
are much too low to ensure quality training, which is fundamental to ICDS success. Both new
projects include, as conditions of Negotiations, adoption of the greatly enhanced norms proposed
by the Department of Women and Child Development but not yet approved by GOI.
17.  International experience and that of Tamil Nadu suggests that it is not possible
simultaneously to provide nutrition, health and pre-school education with one worker. Ongoing
GOI/Bank collaborative sector work is examining the one-worker versus two-worker question.
The outcome of ICDS I suggests that ICDS will only achieve its potential impact if two workers
are employed. That would require either targeting the food supplementation, or increasing the
GOI or state financing of ICDS, neither of which would be easy, but both of which would have
the desired impact on child malnutrition in India.
Project Outcome
18.   Although definitive terminal evaluation findings were not yet available, the poor service
delivery performance suggest project outcomes are unsatisfactory in both states. One significant
achievement of the ICDS I project however was the fact, borne out by the mid-term review, that
it was successfully targeted to the most disadvantaged population groups, thus improving their
access to nutrition and health services. Notwithstanding the fact that the project failed to meet its
development objectives, it still enabled ICDS to perform better than in non-Bank-financed states,
and was responsible for service delivery improvements well worth sustaining.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2173-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.    Prior to the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS I) Project in Andhra Pradesh
and Orissa, IDA had supported one nutrition operation in India -- the Taniil Nadu Integrated
Nutrition Project (TINP I) -- between 1980-89. Implementation of ICDS I coincided with TINP
II. Other related Bank-assisted projects in India, approved between 1972 and 1991, include seven
population projects, and the Child Survival and Safe Motherhood Project -- projects which sought
to improve family welfare and reduce maternal and child morbidity and mortality.
2.    Both ICDS I and TINP II aimed at improving the nutrition and health status of young
children and pregnant and lactating women through an integrated package of community-based
activities, with a village-based nutrition worker as the focal point. The ICDS I project represents
the first direct support by the World Bank to the ICDS program in India. Following its approval
in 1990, a second loan was approved in 1993 for support to ICDS in the states of Bihar and
Madhya Pradesh (ICDS II).
A.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3 .    The overall objective of the ICDS I project was to improve the nutrition and health status
of children under six years of age, with special emphasis on 0-3 year-olds, and pregnant and
lactating women, in the states of Andhra Pradesh and Orissa.
4.    Project Coverage. The project covered 110 predominantly tribal, drought-prone and
disadvantaged rural blocks in Andhra Pradesh and 191 tribal and rural blocks in Orissa. In Andhra
Pradesh, the project aimed at strengthening and enriching services in 44 existing ICDS blocks and
extending the program to an additional 66 blocks covering an estimated 12.9 million population in
13 districts. Similarly, in Orissa, 69 existing blocks and 122 additional blocks were to be covered,
the latter including 70 tribal blocks and 52 blocks with a high proportion of disadvantaged
population groups. In total, an estimated population of 9.5 million in 12 districts in Orissa were to
be covered.
5.    Specific Objectives. The specific objectives of the project were to:
*   reduce by 50% severe malnutrition (Grade III and IV) among 6-36 month-old
children;
*   increase by 25% the proportion of 6-36 month-old children in normal or mild (Grade
I) malnutrition status;



2
*   reduce the incidence of low birth weight (LBW) by 30% in Andhra Pradesh and 20%
in Orissa; and
*   contribute towards a reduction in the infant mortality rate (IMR) to 60 per 1000 live
births in Andhra Pradesh and to 100 per 1000 live births in Orissa.
6.    In addition to these impact objectives, 23 process objectives were specified in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) with state-specific targets. Key available data which permit an
assessment of progress towards these objectives are provided in Table 5.
7.    Project Strategy. The overall project strategy consisted of three elements: an expansion of
ICDS coverage; the application of lessons learned in the first Tanil Nadu Integrated Nutrition
Project (TINP-I); and the testing of new approaches towards community mobilization. Specific
approaches included:
*   improving maternal nutrition through strengthened antenatal care and on-site food
supplementation for high risk women by the twentieth week of pregnancy;
3   improving household health and nutrition behavior through communication and
community mobilization;
3   increasing health service coverage to prevent or reduce the detrimental effect of
infections and refer severely malnourished children to the appropriate levels of the
health care system; and
*   providing therapeutic food supplementation to malnourished under-three year-old
children.
8.    Strengthened systems of management, training, communications, logistics, monitoring and
evaluation were intended to support this strategy. In addition, three innovations were planned.
First, supervision was to be improved through better training, reorganized work routines, and the
addition of a block-level supervisor. Second, supplementary feeding criteria were to be modified,
if warranted, by the findings of operational research, in order to more effectively prevent
malnutrition among the youngest children. Third, women's programs were intended to enrich the
ICDS through optimizing community support and participation. These were to take place on an
experimental basis in the early years of the project. If found to be successful following the mid-
term review, the innovations were to be extended throughout the project.
9.    At the outset, it was recognized that conditions differed between the two states. Both the
rural health infrastructure and institutional capacity for training and communication activities are
better developed in Andhra Pradesh than in Orissa. Social development indicators also reflect
these differences. State-specific targets for impact and process objectives reflected what was
considered achievable for each state.
10.   Several operational research studies were proposed for the early years of the project to
ensure a good fit between beneficiary perceptions and needs and the ICDS services to be
provided. One main study was to consider alternative modes of therapeutic supplementary
feeding, seeking the most cost-effective approach. Another was a functional analysis of work
routines of the ICDS and health functionaries in order to prioritize and harmonize activities, thus



3
maximizing efficiency and impact.
B.  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
11.   Conclusive evidence of progress towards both impact and process objectives will only
emerge with the findings of the terminal evaluation which was not available at the time of
finalizing this ICR. When the evaluation becomes available, achievements in project areas may be
compared with the secular change in child nutritional status. As regards the past secular trend,
according to data from the National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau, the mean annual reduction in
severe malnutrition in Orissa during the 1980s was 2.8% in Orissa and 4.2% in Andhra Pradesh.
The ICDS-I project aimed for an annual reduction of just over 7%, which was a challenging but
potentially achievable goal.
12.   The only available independent data source for judging progress against process and
impact objectives is the mid-term review survey (MTS), which was delayed until 1996, the
penultimate year of the project. According to the MTS, both of the main malnutrition reduction
objectives have been, or are close to being, met in Andhra Pradesh while neither has been met in
Orissa, where severe malnutrition has reportedly increased. However, major concerns regarding
the validity of the MTS data especially, were raised during the mid-term review (MTR) and the
Bank recommended that the data be reanalyzed. This reanalysis was not carried out.
13.   Monitoring data cannot be used to assess impact as they refer only to those women and
children actually reached by the project. MTS data suggest that (at least in the case of under-three
year-olds being weighed) this proportion is less than two-thirds of those eligible at any one time.
Given these limitations, routine monitoring data, as shown in the Table A below, do suggest an
improving trend in child nutritional status in Andhra Pradesh during the project period and a
relatively unchanged situation in Orissa (the latter between 1994 and 1996, when data were
available).
Table A: T'rends in Nutritional Status of Under-Three Year-Old Children using Data from
Monitoring Sources, Baseline and Mid-Term Surveys (MTS)
Grade  l   1990   | 1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   1996    1997
Baseline      _          l                                  MTS   tar et*
N & I      62.8      60.5    68.3    69.6    70.8    73.6   75 6    82 0    78.6
II        27.2     31.9    26.6    26.4    26.6    24.4    22.8   12.6    --
III & IV    10.0       7.6     5.1     4.0      2.6     2.0      1.6    5.4    5.0
N&I        68.4      NA       NA      NA      67.8    69.1    68.9   68.7    85.5
II        23.4      NA      NA      NA       26.7    25.9   26.6   19.5    --
III & IV     8.2      NA       NA      NA       5.5     5.0    4.5   11.8    4.1
N = normal, I = Grade I, etc. according to the Indian Academy of Paediatrics weight-for-age classification.
* the 1997 target is derived by applying the impact objective targets to the actual baseline values.
14.   With regard to the infant mortality rate (IMR), and according to Sample Registration



4
System (SRS) data, the target for Orissa has been easily met, unlike that for Andhra Pradesh.
Orissa experienced a sharp drop in IMR from 123 per 1000 live births in 1990 to 95 per 1000 live
births in 1996, with the improvement being particularly dramatic in rural areas. The IMR in
Andhra Pradesh, on the other hand, changed little from 70 to 66 per 1000 live births.
15.   Finally, data limitations preclude any definitive statement on the change in low birth
weight incidence, but there is some evidence of improvement in line with targets. For both states,
the baseline estimate of low birth weight incidence was 30%, while the mid-term surveys provide
estimates of 23-24%. These data were, however, weighted towards institutional deliveries which
might be expected to have higher birth weights. There remains a need to improve birth weight
data collection throughout the ICDS program.
16.   Conclusion. In sum, it is not possible to make a definitive judgement on project
outcomes, due to the lack of terminal evaluation data. Indeed, the overall paucity of relevant,
reliable and timely data is one of the main shortcomings of this project (see "Monitoring and
Evaluation Objectives"). The evidence that currently exists from the delayed mid-term review
points to significant differences between the two states in project outcomes. Andhra Pradesh
appears to have made significant progress towards the main nutritional impact objectives, unlike
Orissa. Orissa, on the other hand, has exceeded its infant mortality reduction objective, while the
situation in Andhra Pradesh has changed little. Additional comparable data are not available to
shed further light on these differences. In any event, as discussed below, performance on process
indicators suggests that it is unlikely that the project could have made more than a small
contribution to the achievement of the impact objectives.
Service Delivery Objectives
17.   According to the 1996 mid-term review data, service delivery in both states was generally
quite poor with respect to most process objectives. Among children, only 1-2% of under-threes
were regularly weighed (target: 80%) and around 40% received supplementary food (target:
90%) for an average of 16-19 days per month (target: 25 days). 21-26% of young children were
completely immunized (target: 85-90%) and only 8% received vitamin A twice a year (target:
80%). 47-48% of children received semi-solid complementary foods from 6 months of age,
compared to targets of 50% and 60% in the two states.
18.   Although the target of registering 80% of pregnant women was nearly reached in both
states, only 29-38% were registered in the first 20 weeks, as compared to a target of 50%.
Virtually all pregnant women registered had, however, undergone an obstetrical and nutritional
risk assessment and received tetanus toxoid immunization. The strategy of supplementary feeding
to malnourished pregnant and lactating women did not work well, as food uptake was low (less
than 30%, as compared to targets of 60-90%) and generally untargeted. Only 8-15% of pregnant
women consumed iron and folic acid tablets for at least 12 weeks, as against a target of 60%.
19.   The low coverage and poor targeting of the supplementary feeding component, both for
children and women, and the sporadic nature of growth-monitoring, are related. The purpose of
growth monitoring as one means of growth promotion has not been internalized (see



5
"Communications Objectives"). Food uptake was perceived as more important than targeting
food to those who most need it, using growth criteria. Growth monitoring thus became yet
another perfunctory task for the overworked AWW to undertake -- one of 23 process variables
for which she had responsibility.
20.   Referral System. The referral system did not perform well, with little use being made of
the Nutrition Rehabilitation Centers, which have now been closed. An internal study showed that
this was because mothers did not perceive malnutrition as warranting such center-based
rehabilitation and because few women had the time to stay with their children at these centers.
21.   Pre-school Education. Pre-school activities for 3-6 year-old children, which used joyful-
learning methods, were moderately well attended (43-53% compared to targets of 60-80%). In
Andhra Pradesh, there was strong convergence of services with the District Primary Education
Project (DPEP), financed by IDA in both states. However, the pre-school component did not
address the need for early childhood stimulation in under-three year-old children.
22.   Training. There were serious problems with training, in an environment where project
expansion took priority over quality improvement. While initial job training was conducted in a
relatively timely manner, there were heavy backlogs in joint health-nutrition training and in
refresher training at all levels for most of the duration of the project. A decentralized, field-based
approach to reducing these backlogs through mobile District Training Teams did not work well.
With regard to quality, training curricula were not adequately focused on developing skills for
preventing malnutrition among under-three year-olds, the priority age group. Nor did they include
orientation on tec:hniques such as participatory rural appraisal which would have proved valuable
in community mobilization. The potential role of supervisors as in situ trainers of anganwadi
workers was also not realized.
23.   Under-funding of training, resulting from low national financial norms for ICDS training,
was a major constraint. This problem is being addressed in the proposed Woman and Child
Development Project, for which enhanced financial norms for training are a condition of
negotiations.
24.   Health-Nutrition Coordination. The crux of health-nutrition coordination --joint training
of anganwadi workers (AWWs) and auxiliary nurse-midwives (ANMs) -- was not successfully
achieved, nor was there much joint planning of home visits to at-risk households. There is a
perception among health professionals that nutrition is not sufficiently technically-demanding to
warrant serious attention. Orissa did however make a start on strengthening the health interface
with the "Children Campaign" which linked immunization, nutrition and health education and
referral. Andhra Pradesh initiated the "Child/Mother Health Day", which was celebrated every
other month with various awareness-creation activities using folk media. Operational research in
Orissa recommended "specific guidelines and stipulations with accountability fixed at all levels" if
there is to be active coordination between health and ICDS.
25.   Conclusion. Overall, service delivery was quite poor, for both women and children, in
both states, and particularly so with regard to growth monitoring and supplementary feeding. The



6
main reason for this was inadequate training in general and particularly the missed opportunity of
employing supervisors as local trainers.
Communications Objectives
26.   The communications component in Orissa was seriously constrained by the inability to fill
the Communications Advisor post and the posts of additional supervisors for the duration of the
project. Neither state developed a comprehensive communications strategy due to years of delay
in completing the formative research, originally intended for the first year of the project. An
interim communications strategy was implemented in Andhra Pradesh from late 1995 on, which
comprised the preparation and distribution of posters, growth monitoring cards, advocacy films,
and a newsletter.
27.   There was a marked lack of emphasis on the inter-personal aspects of comnmunication,
including maternal counseling on child care, feeding and health practices. The formative research
should have provided the basis for a focused, topic-specific and area-specific strategy, targeted at
the appropriate care-givers, and backed up by relevant district-level training. Home-based
behavioral change is key not only to preventing severe malnutrition, but also to sustainably
reducing rates of moderate malnutrition.
Community Mobilization Objectives
28.   Community mobilization centered around support to women's groups (mahila mandals)
which were registered in villages throughout the project areas in both states. Once registered, the
mahila mandals undertook thrift and credit activities and received skill training. Comparatively
little effort was devoted to more directly nutrition-relevant activities, such as improving the caring
capacity and practices within the community. Orientation of mahila mandal presidents and
secretaries lagged somewhat in both states. Income-generation activities mainly comprised
fabrication of leaf-plates, baskets and brooms for sale in local markets. In Andhra Pradesh,
women took the initiative to contribute their labor towards the construction of anganwadi
centres. In Orissa, women's groups in Phulbani district monitor all village-based development
programs and propagate health messages. The resources and energy of the community-based
panchayati raj institutions (democratically-elected, village-based development committees) were
not actively utilized, despite their emerging potential for sustained community mobilization,
monitoring and evaluation.
29.   The Adolescent Girl's (AG) scheme involved the AWW in training selected local
adolescent girls in nutrition, health and child care. The girls would assist the AWW for two days
per week and act as a link between the AWW, mahila mandals and the community in general.
However, the AG scheme did not perform well because of design shortcomings, such as the
difficulty in forming adolescent girls' groups on a village cluster basis instead of one per village.
Also, providing appropriate skill training for these groups was found to be difficult for the time-
constrained AWW who herself may have been awaiting refresher training. Both states felt the
need for better strategies to more directly address the needs of adolescent girls, such as the
provision of iron and folate supplementation and deworming drugs, as well as training selected
adolescents as social mobilizers. These strategies are included in the forthcoming, five-state



7
Woman and Child Development (WCD) project to be financed by the Bank.
30.   Women's :ntegrated Learning for Life (WILL), in which the AWW trained local women in
literacy, health, nuitrition and development, worked reasonably well. Despite adding to her
workload, it raised her status in the village, particularly among mothers. However, a significant
proportion of women found it difficult to regularly attend WILL evening classes due to time and
work constraints.
31.   A 1997 qualitative field study in Orissa found that involvement of people in ICDS remains
largely passive, with workers acting as "doers" rather than change agents, and communities acting
as recipients rather than participants. Nevertheless, there were significant local-level examples of
successful community mobilization e.g., kitchen garden promotion and community maintenance of
handpumps, which does indicate potential for active community involvement.
Monitoring and Evaluation Objectives
32.   In Andhra Pradesh, a systematic review of the monitoring system was undertaken. In
collaboration with the National Institute of Nutrition, an innovative pilot nutrition surveillance
scheme was testecl during the second half of the project and subsequently used in the revision of
the monitoring proformae for the WCD project. Andhra Pradesh produced useful and regular
updates on progress towards the key impact and process objectives. In contrast, in Orissa,
monitoring was relatively weak, with little use being made of monitoring data to modify project
implementation at any level. Prior to April 1994, child nutrition monitoring data were not
computerized in Orissa. In both states, the management information system was virtually non-
existent.
33.   The regularly tabulated key project indicators which were reviewed by each supervision
mission, contained only a few process objectives. Nutrition outcome indicators were not routinely
reported using these formats, which tended to be predominantly quantitative data on hardware
aspects. The Department of Women and Child Development (DWCD) of the Government of
India closely monitored both physical and fiscal targets.
34.   Monitoring was adversely affected in both states by delays in the supply of weighing scales
and growth charts. The scales in use from 1993 on were baby-cum-child weighing scales. While
these may have been more convenient than hanging scales, they are less reliable, being only able to
measure to within the nearest 200g (as compared to lOOg for the hanging scales). An internal
study also found them to be less durable than hanging scales.
35.   The mid-term evaluation was not completed until the penultimate project year, which
significantly constrained the ability of project management to make timely mid-course corrections
and to assess overall progress towards project objectives. Moreover, there was a marked
dissonance between monitoring and evaluation data, with suggests the need for periodic quality
control checks on monitoring data. In addition, the terminal evaluation was delayed and the
results are not available for this report. This follows the general pattern of delay in procurement
and low quality of evaluation studies in Bank-financed nutrition projects in India. As discussed



8
below, this calls for a much more stringent approach in ongoing and future projects.
Operational Research Objectives
36.   At appraisal, assurances were given that various operational research studies and mid-term
and final evaluation surveys would be carried out. These were not fulfilled on time, and several
studies remain uncompleted. The most important uncompleted study, which was intended to
examine alternative modes of therapeutic supplementation, was reportedly delayed by the non-
supply of the food supplements by the state's production unit. While up to a dozen studies were
initiated in each state at some time, the quality of the work has generally been poor. Where
research has been completed, some attempt has been made to utilize the findings in improving
implementation (as shown in Table 6), although in many cases, particularly in Orissa, no details
are available of actions taken. The GOI and authorities in the two states have pledged that
findings from delayed studies will be used in the general ICDS program in Orissa and in Andhra
Pradesh.
37.   Conclusion. In hindsight, it would have been preferable to focus on improving the quality
and timeliness of a reduced number of key operational research studies. Better procurement
planning, improved quality assessment of bidding agency proposals, timely monitoring of
implementation and follow-up of specific recommendations are critical. Supervision missions need
to pay more attention to this early on in the project. The importance of information for
accountability -- whether gained through operational research, monitoring or evaluation -- needs
to be signaled by assigning specific responsibility for quality control to an individual in the
Government of India project management unit. Failure to fulfill covenanted agreements should
result in the Bank seeking appropriate remedies instead of repeatedly recommending action, if
action is not taken in a reasonable time-frame..
Physical Targets
38.   After initial slow progress with installation of handpumps and civil works in Orissa, the
pace picked up in the latter years of the project. The originally-approved civil construction
program, consisting of 2292 anganwadi centers (AWCs), 90 block-level office-cum-stores and
2292 handpumps, was eventually completed. During June 1996, the Government of India
sanctioned the construction of an additional 1600 AWCs, 19 office-cum-stores and 3000 extra
handpumps, financed by exchange rate savings. This construction was 90% complete when the
project closed. Even though the software components of the project were not going very well,
Bank staff felt that the additional physical infrastructure would strengthen ICDS in the state.
39.   There was generally good progress with the construction of anganwadi centers (AWCs)
and hand-pump installation in Andhra Pradesh. The originally-approved civil construction
program, providing for construction of 1650 AWCs, 55 CDPO office-cum-stores and 880
handpumps was 99% completed. To utilize exchange rate savings, the Government of India
sanctioned the additional construction of 2500 AWCs, 19 CDPO office-cum-stores and the
installation of a further 750 handpumps in 1996-97. The Bank was pleased to agree to this
proposal, since by this stage the project was making more satisfactory progress in Andhra



9
Pradesh. This additional construction was almost completed by the credit closing date.
40.   Procurenient of weighing scales was delayed in mid-project with adverse repercussions on
growth monitoring and promotion. On the whole, the monitoring of fiscal and physical targets in
both states was better than of other process and outcome indicators.
C.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
41.   The location of the project was appropriate in that it was targeted to the most socio-
economically and geographically marginalized rural communities, as borne out by mid-term
review data on beneficiary characteristics. 61% and 38% of beneficiaries in Orissa and Andhra
Pradesh, respectively, were of a scheduled caste or scheduled tribe. Only one-third of female
beneficiaries in both states was literate. This successful targeting to the most disadvantaged
population groups represents a significant improvement in their access to nutrition and health
services.
42.   Implemerntation was oriented disproportionately towards hardware and input targets.
Disbursement was slow initially. Correspondingly, insufficient attention was paid to software
(e.g., communications support, training) outputs and outcome targets. Service delivery inevitably
was negatively affected. A perception of food as a quantitative input predominated over one of
nutrition as a qualitative outcome of food, health and care-related factors.
43.   The high turnover of staff and the persistence of unfilled vacancies in the Orissa Project
Management Unit (PMU) constrained progress in general, and prevented the implementation of
an interim communications strategy. Continuity, commitment and overall management of the
project were adversely affected. In both states, the high percentage of vacancies at supervisor and
Assistant Child Development Project Officer (ACDPO) level, and the lack of recruitment of
additional supervisors, limited the degree of localized follow-up and support.
44.   A fundamental problem of program philosophy affected the implementation of this and the
ICDS II project. ICDS is widely viewed, by political leaders, bureaucrats, functionaries and
beneficiaries alike, as a government program providing pre-school education and child feeding. In
contrast to TINP, no major effort has been taken to market the program as one aimed at
preventing malnujtrition through behavior change among mothers. This accounts in large
measure for the preoccupation of GOI and the states with quantity over quality, and their related
lack of interest in research and evaluation. As a result, and as shown in multiple evaluations,
ICDS has relatively limited impact on its main objective of reducing malnutrition. Social indicators
are better in ICDS blocks than non-ICDS blocks, and ICDS runs better in Bank-financed blocks
than in other blocks. But despite strenuous efforts over many years, the Bank has



10
not succeeded in its efforts to promote in ICDS, the kind of behavior-change program Tamil
Nadu succeeded in harnessing through TINP.
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABELITY
45.   The prospects for sustaining the project in Orissa and Andhra Pradesh are quite good
given the expressed commitment of the national and state governments and the overall
commitment of the Government of India to universalize the ICDS within the next few years. In
Andhra Pradesh, universalization will take place within the ICDS component of the proposed
IDA-assisted Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Project (APERP), which goes to the
Board in June 1998. Andhra Pradesh in the past two years has become one of the better-
performing states on ICDS.
46.   The sustainability of the District Training Teams (DTTs) constituted for this project is
questionable. The final supervision mission recommended the recruitment of four technical posts
within the Government of India-sanctioned district ICDS cell so that permanent DTTs could be
constituted. Sustainability of the income-generating activities of the women's groups is dependent
on the state government facilitating and supporting appropriate linkages with similar schemes.
47.   The SAR estimated that when the project was fully operational, recurrent costs for Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa (excluding food costs) would be around Rs.361.3 million. The Government of
India's budgetary allocation for the ICDS program for 1997/98 is Rs. 6.75 billion, making total
recurrent costs for these two states around 5% of the total. This should not be a problem for GOI,
which is committed to universalizing ICDS in the 30% of blocks not now covered by the
program. The food costs for ICDS are borne by the respective state governments and both
Andhra Pradesh and Orissa are committed to sustaining this part of the program. Attention
however should be paid to the fact that as supplementary feeding coverage rises from its current
levels, food costs will rise correspondingly.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
48.   The Bank's performance was mixed. With the benefit of hindsight, the project appears
over-ambitious in terms of size and scope. In particular, performance might have been better if the
project had covered fewer new blocks, supported fewer innovative programs which added to the
workload of the AWW, and included less operational research. Where supervision missions can
most be faulted is in their reluctance to seek remedies. Supervision reports provide abundant
evidence that implementation problems were fully recognized and that appropriate actions were
recommended and agreed. However, when action failed to materialize, the Bank failed to seek
appropriate remedies. Suspension was many times considered but never actually recommended
by the task team or by management. Nor was the project restructured, mainly because the mid-
term review occurred just one year before the closing date. It is clear that suspension should have
taken place, e.g., over the failure to appoint staff in Orissa, the failure to undertake the therapeutic
supplementation study, formative research and mid-term evaluation in a timely way, and over the
persistent procurement delays. The end result was a fully-disbursed project, but one with a strong
bias for hardware over software, quantity over quality, despite the fact that the Bank started out



11
trying to reverse this bias. Overall, the Bank performance is judged to be unsatisfactory.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
49.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory with respect to project preparation.
However, project management was weak throughout the project period in Orissa and improved
only in the last two years of the project in Andhra Pradesh. The main reasons were failure to
recruit and retain competent staff in the Project Management Unit (PMU). The project started
slowly in both states, and implementation only reached an adequate pace in the final two years.
Government of India delays in clearing procurement, especially of studies and in obtaining
Ministry of Finance sanction for additional construction, contributed to the slow pace of
implementation. The Borrower failed to comply fully with covenants on operational research and
evaluation, resulting in significant information gaps. These gaps, which persisted throughout the
project, prevented design and implementation shortcomings from being highlighted, and timely,
remedial action from being taken. There is therefore no alternative but to rate the Borrower's
overall performance as unsatisfactory.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
50.   The project has successfully established a village-based worker in many remote and
disadvantaged tribal and rural communities, with the primary responsibility for improving child
nutrition and health. However, she is likely to be over-worked and under-supported with regard
to both training and supervision. Service delivery has consequently been relatively poor on the
whole. Nevertheless, the project was rated as performing satisfactorily during most of the project
period. This appears defensible until the results of the delayed mid-term review were known,
which was just one year from the closing date. At that point, performance was improving in
Andhra Pradesh, but not in Orissa, except in the area of civil works construction. The delayed
mnid-term review has pointed to gains in nutrition in Andhra Pradesh and in infant mortality rate in
Orissa, but these are unlikely to owe much to the impact of the project. The weak performance in
areas such as growth monitoring, Iron and Vitamin A supplementation, argue against attributing
much of the improvement in social indicators to the impact of the project. Overall, the project
outcome is rated as unsatisfactory both in terms of achievement of development objectives and of
implementation effectiveness.
H.   FUTURE OPERATION
51.   ICDS is to be universalized, and Andhra Pradesh and Orissa have sanctioned the program
in all development blocks. All project blocks in Orissa have been taken over under the general
ICDS program, and its PMUs has merged with the directorate of ICDS. A new ICDS project for
Andhra Pradesh was appraised by the Bank in January 1998 and is scheduled for the Board in
June 1998. This is a component of a larger project, i.e., the Andhra Pradesh Economic
Restructuring Project (APER).
I.    LESSONS LEARNED



12
52.   Ensure Service Quality. One main lesson learned is that high quality and timely training of
project functionaries is a sine qua non for high quality service delivery. It is also essential to
prioritize communications for home-based behavior change if a sustained impact is to be expected
on moderate, as well as severe, child malnutrition. Space needs to be made for this to happen. The
role of additional supervisor could have created this space, yet these posts were not filled in this
project. Supervisors should have a greater responsibility for communications support and
monitoring, regularly accompanying AWWs on home visits to at-risk households. Training should
also reflect this prioritization. The national training curriculum for AWWs and supervisors
requires a greater focus on strengthening capabilities to prevent malnutrition among very young
children, in their own homes. Timely job and refresher training backed up by one-to-one support
of the anganwadi worker by the supervisor should be the bedrock of such capacity-building in
projects of this type. Given the forthcoming expansion into new blocks in A.P, it will be
particularly important to institutionalize such a focus on quality from the start.
53.   Avoid Undue Emphasis on Food. Linked to quality concerns, there is a need for increased
emphasis on the health and care-related factors determining nutrition outcomes in the youngest
children. Food supplementation should not be considered as the raison d'etre of the project, but
rather as one of several means to improve child growth and nutrition. The preoccupation with
food distribution, which percolates down from state-level management to the anganwadi worker
herself, has reduced the attention and priority attached to inter-personal communications and
counseling, which are vital to improve the care-related determinants of child nutrition.
54.   Growth promotion, not food distribution, should be viewed as the crux of the program,
with growth monitoring as one highly important means to this end. De-linked from
communications and targeting, growth monitoring is useless. It needs to be re-activated as an
essential tool for AWWs to prioritize their counseling support to those mothers and children who
most require it. Without an explicit strategy for communications, linked to community
mobilization, and backed up by high quality training and supervision, there is little chance of any
project making a sustainable dent on moderate malnutrition. This is the biggest future challenge
for the ICDS.
55.   Future operational research should prioritize this area, and be directed towards eliciting
the most effective communications approaches. Indeed, the ultimate question is how, in a future
beyond externally-supported programs, can all the food, health and care preconditions for child
nutritional well-being be ensured and sustained.
56.   Prioritized Operational Research. There is a real need to prioritize operational research
and to ensure that studies are carried out within the first 2-3 years of the project, in order that
findings can be used to improve the project. A few key operational research studies (no more than
five) should start in the first year of the project with results being made available ahead of the
mid-term review, which itself should be finalized by the end of the third year of a five-year
project. In addition to the above mentioned need to prioritize studies of how to improve home-
based caring and feeding practices, there also remains an ongoing need to learn how best to
mobilize communities for self-sustaining nutrition improvement. Formative research leading to a
communications strategy needs to be started in the first year of the project, with a strategy being



13
fully implemented by year two. The terminal evaluation survey, analysis and reporting all need to
be completed by the end of the last year of the project so their findings can be drawn upon for the
ICR. This will require more stringent criteria for recruiting competent research agencies, more
diligent and expeditious procurement of operational research by GOI and the state governments,
and tighter monitoring and supervision of quality and timeliness of studies in the early years.
Failure to comply with covenanted requirements to conduct priority studies, including evaluations,
in an agreed time period should lead to the Bank seeking appropriate remedies.
57.   Improve Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring needs more emphasis, with respect to
quality in general, and the need to more visibly track progress towards the impact objectives, in
particular. Child nutritional status data need to be made more visible at more levels in the project
management system, and to be used for improved action. This applies at all levels, throughout the
project management system - from an individual child's growth chart right up to the monthly
Monitoring Progress Reports and the "key project indicators" monitored by project management
and reviewed by each supervision mission. Evaluation, particularly the mid-term review, needs to
be more rigorously planned, implemented and communicated. This requirement should be
covenanted and its adherence stringently monitored. Consideration should be given in future to
creating a specific post or convening an expert panel to provide regular technical and operational
advice, quality control and supervision throughout the evaluative process.
58.   Strategic Issues. ICDS I brought into sharp focus three strategic program issues:
*   the bias towards expansion (quantity) over quality;
*   the under-funding of training; and
*   the one-worker versus two-worker model.
The project demonstrated clearly that rapid expansion of ICDS into new blocks usually comes at
the expense of service quality. It appears that the Bank contributed to this problem by financing a
project that was beyond the absorptive capacity of the two states. The hardware components
were completed but quality of training, communications, and services was not up to the mark.
59.   Experience with ICDS I and preparation of the forthcoming WCD project and ICDS
component of APER project have brought out the fact that the current finance norms for training
are much too low to ensure quality training, which is fundamental to ICDS success. Both new
projects include, as conditions of Negotiations, adoption of the greatly enhanced norms proposed
by the Department of Women and Child Development but not yet approved by GOI.
60.   International experience and that of Tarnil Nadu suggests that it is not possible
simultaneously to provide nutrition, health and pre-school education with one worker. Ongoing
GOI/Bank collaborative sector work is examining the one-worker versus two-worker question.
The outcome of ICDS I suggests that ICDS will only achieve its potential impact if two workers
are employed. That would require either targeting the food supplementation, or increasing the
GOI or state financing of ICDS, neither of which would be easy, but both of which would have
the desired impact on child malnutrition in India.



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES (ICDS I) PROJECT (Cr. 2173-IN)
PART II: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives        Substantial        Partial        Negligible       Not applicable
(0i)            (0)              (E3)              (0i)
Macro Policies                       al              E                0l
Sector Policies                       l             I3                0                  0
Financial Objectives                El              E]                 0                m
Institutional Development           [- ]                              0Q
Physical Objectives                 [3               Q                a                  Q
Poverty Reduction                    D               E
Gender Issues                        0              IX                0                  0
Other Social Objectives             [0                                5                  5
Environmental Objectives            E                E                E                l
Public Sector Management                            [El               El                E
Private Sector Development           0x                               E                 El
Other (specify)                       l             El                E                 X
B. Project Sustainability              Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(0)                      (0)                        (0)
Fxl               1El                         El



15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                   satisfactory          Satisfactorv              Deficient
(IXI                    (0)                      (0)
Identification                     o                                                 5
Preparation Assistance                                     ml ] 
Appraisal                          I]                        :E
Supervision                                                E l I
IIighlv
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactory   Satisfactor      Deficient
(0)            (0)            (0)
Preparation                                  0                             5
Implementation                                              5              E
Covenant Compliance                          5              5El
Operation (if applicable)                    S                ]            S
Highly                                           Highlv
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactorv   Satisfactor   Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
(I)            (0)              (M)              (0)
Andhra Pradesh                     5               5               [E]               5
Orissa                                            E]               5E]



16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES (ICDS I) PROJECT (Cr. 2173-IN)
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit title                     Purpose                    Year of          Status
approval
1. First Population    To support the family welfare program in    1972     Credit closed June
Project CR 312-IN       five districts of Mysore (now Karnataka)             30, 1980
and six districts of Uttar Pradesh.
Project Completion
Report (PCR) 6/81;
PAR 1/82
2. Second Population    To support the family welfare program in   1980      Credit closed March
Project                 six districts of Uttar Pradesh and three             31, 1988
districts of Andhra Pradesh
PCR 1/90; PPAR
8/90
3. Tamil Nadu           To improve the nutrition and health status  1980     Credit closed March
Integrated Nutrition    of preschool children and pregnant and               31, 1989
Project I (TINP I) CR    nursing women
1003-IN
PCR 1/91; Impact
Evaluation Report
12/94
4. Third Population    To support the family welfare program in    1984     Credit closed March
Project CR 1426-IN      six districts of Karnataka and four districts        31, 1992
of Kerala                                            PCR 8/93
5. Fourth Population   To support the family welfare program in    1985     Credit closed March
Project CR 1623-IN     four districts of West Bengal                        31, 1994
PCR 12/94
6. Fifth (Bombay and   To reduce infant, child and maternal        1988     Credit closed March
Madras) Population      morbidity and mortality and to moderate             31, 1996
Project CR 1931-IN      fertility in the cities of Bombay, Madras and       Implementation
other urban areas of Tanil Nadu, and to              Completion Report
assist the Municipal Authorities in                 10t96
designing and implementing improved
health and family welfare programs.



17
Table 2: Related Bank Credits (continued)
7. Sixth (First National   To support the family welfare program in  1989   Credit closed May
Family Welfare Training  the states of Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh,       31, 1997
and Systems            and Madhya Pradesh                                   ICR ???
Development) Population
Project CR 2057-IN
8. Second Tamil Nadu    To improve the nutritional status of children  1990  Credit scheduled to
Nutrition Project (TNIP   aged 6 to 36 months and contribute to a           close December 31,
II)    CR 2158-IN      reduction in infant mortality rate and               1997
incidence of low birth weight.
9. Seventh (Training)  To support lower-income women in the       1990      Credit is scheduled
Population Project CR  rural areas of Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana,              to close June 30,
2133-IN                Jannu, Kashmir and Punjab, through the               1998
training of new and existing health workers
and non-Health Department personnel
10. Eighth (Family     To help the Government of India increase   1991     Credit scheduled to
Welfare Urban Slums)    the supply of family welfare services in the        close June 30, 2001
Population Project CR  slum populations of Andhra Pradesh,
2394-1N                Karnataka, West Bengal and Delhi
11. Child Survival and    To increase child survival and promote safe  1991  Credit closed on
Safe Motherhood Project  motherhood, including establishing first           September 30, 1996
CR 2300-IN             referral units for secondary-level care of          ICR 3/97
mothers and their newborns
12. Second Integrated  To improve the nutrition and health status  1993    Credit scheduled to
Child Development      of pre-school children and their mothers by          close September 30,
Services Project II (ICDS   strengthening and increasing the outreach of    2000
II) CR 2470-IN         the ICDS program in Bihar and Madya
Pradesh.
13. Ninth (Family      To support the family welfare program in   1994     Credit scheduled to
Welfare Assam,         the states of Assam, Rajasthan and                   close December 31,
Rajasthan and          Karnataka                                            2001
Karnataka) Population
Project CR 2630-IN
14. Andhra Pradesh First  To (i) improve efficiency in the allocation  1994  Credit scheduled to
Referral Health System  and use of health resources through policy         close March 31,
Project CR 2663-IN     and institutional development: and (ii)              2002
improve system performance of health care
through improvements in quality,
effectiveness and coverage of health services
at the first referral or secondary level to
better serve the neediest sections of society.



18
Table 2: Related Bank Credits (continued)
15. Second State Health   To (i) improve efficiency in the allocation  1997  Credit scheduled to
Systems Development    and use of health resources through policy           close March 31,
Project CR 2833-IN      and institutional development; and (ii)             2002
improve performance of the health care
system through improvements in the quality,
effectiveness and coverage of health services
at the first referral level and selective
coverage at the primary level to better serve
the neediest sections of society.
16. TB Control Project    To reduce mortality, morbidity and       1997     Credit scheduled to
CR 2936-IN             disability due to TB and to reduce the               close December 31,
incidence of infectious TB by focusing on           2002
the cure of infectious patients
17. Malaria Control    To reduce death, morbidity and social and   1997     Credit scheduled to
Project CR 2964-IN      economic losses from malaria through and            close March 31,
improved malaria control program                    2003
including: (i) using a better mix of effective
malaria control interventions responsible to
local needs; and (ii) strengthening the
Directorate of the National Malaria Program
(NMP) and modifying its orientation
18. Reproductive Health   To improve quality, coverage and         1997     Credit scheduled to
Project CR N0180-lN    effectiveness of existing Family Welfare             close March 31,
(FW) services and expand their scope to             2003
include more elements of a defined package
of reproductive and child health (RCH)
services
19. Rural Women's      To strengthen processes that promote the    1997     Credit scheduled to
Development Project    economic development of women and create             close June 30, 2002
CR 2942-IN             an environment for social change, including
improving access to better health care



19
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES (ICDS I) PROJECT (Cr. 2173-IN)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                         Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)           April 26, 1988
Appraisal                                            January 12, 1990
Negotiations                                         May 8, 1990
Board Presentation                                   September 4, 1990
Signing                                              October 23, 1990
Effectiveness                                        January 28, 1991
Midterm review (if applicable)                       January 8, 1997
Credit Closing                                      December 31, 1997



20
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES (ICDS I) PROJECT (Cr. 2173-IN)
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS millions)
FY91  FY92  FY93   FY94   FY95  FY96  FY97   FY98
Appraisal Estimate            5.00   10.50  24.70   44.00   64.60  83.20   100.20   106.00
Revised                                                      51.00  67.00   73.00    74.35
Actual                        5.64   15.77   18.97   27.56    38.98  47.43    58.74    80.57
Actual as % of Estimate     113    150      77      63       60      57      59       76
Date of Final Disbursement: April 24, 1998
*Credit in the amount of USS23.5 million equivalent was canceled on May 1, 1993.



21
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES (ICDS I) PROJECT (Cr. 2173-IN)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I.  Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/ Presidents Report              Estimated (%)     Actual (%)
(SAR target)    (1996 MTS)
Andhra Pradesh
Impact Indicators
lI. Reduce severe malnutrition (Grade In & IV) among children 6-36 months by  50%              46%
II. Increase proportion of children 6-36 months in normal and Grade I status by  25%           31%
m. Reduction in IMR                                                          70/1000          66/1000
IV. Reduction in incidence of low birth weight by                             30%              23%
Process Indicators
1. Early registration of pregnant women.                                       50               38
2. Total registration of pregnant women.                                       80              -79
3. Obsterical and nutritional risk assessment of those registered             100               79
4. Tetanus toxoid immunization of pregnant women.                              90               86
5. Consumption of iron and folic acid tablets for at least 12 weeks by pregnant  60             8
women
6. Administration of post-partum vitamin A to attended deliveries              80              NA
7. Food supplementation for at least 20 weeks to registered pregnant women with  80            28*
inadequate nutrition status.
8. Food supplementation for at least 16 weeks of registered lactating women with  90           27*
malnutrition in pregnancy.
9. Immunization (UIP-6) of children.                                           90               26
10. Vitamin A megadose (100,000 - 200,000 i.u.) semi-annually to children 6-36  80              8
months.
11. Regular growth monitoring (>9 times a year) of children 0-3 years.        80               1
12. Supplementation of monitored children 0-3 years with grade II-IV malnutrition.  90         41 *
13. Completed referral of severely malnourished children (grade Im and IV) or non-  80         NA
responding children 0-3 years to VHNIMPWF and PHC.
14. Quarterly growth monitoring, weighing and charting of children 3-5 years (>3  80            17
times of year).
15. Referral of severely malnourished children 3-5 years of age to MPWF/PHC.   90              NA
16. Administration of vitamin A megadose semi-annually to children 3-5 years of  80            NA
age.
17. Pre-school attendance (>80 % of working days)                              80               53
18. Routine deparasitization of monitored children in heavily infected communities  90         NA
as determined by parasite surveys
19. Household use of oral rehydration in the last incidence of diarrhea in the target  60       33
group.
20. Treatment of pneumonia by MPWF/AWW with co-trimaxazole in cases of acute   30               5
respiratory infection (ARI)
21. Additional feeds of local weaning food initiated by 6 months in infants.   60               47
22. Provision of 4 additional weaning feeds/day by 9 months in infants.        60              NA
23. Active women's working groups (> 9 meetings a year)                        80              NA



22
* Data not disaggregated by nutritional status
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (contnued)
I.  Key Implementation Indicators in SARJ Presidents Report                 Estimated (%)    Actual (%)
(SAR target)   (1996 MTS)
Orissa
Impact Indicators
1. Reduce severe malnutrition (Grade 11m & IV) among children 6-36 months by     50%            44%
:I. Increase in proportion of children 6-36 months in normal and Grade I status by  25%         0.4%
m. Reduction in IMR                                                            100/1000        95/1000
IV. Reduction in incidence of low birth weight by                                20%            23%
Process Indicators
1. Early registration of pregnant women.                                          50             29
2. Total registration of pregnant women.                                          80             71
3. Obsterical and nutritional risk assessment of those registered                100             61
4. Tetanus toxoid immunization of pregnant women.                                 80             71
5. Consumption of iron and folic acid tablets for at least 12 weeks by pregnant women  60        15
6. Administration of post-partum vitamin A to attended deliveries                 80            NA
7. Food supplementation for at least 20 weeks to registered pregnent women with   60            26*
inadequate nutrition status.
8. Food supplementation for at least 16 weeks of registered lactating women with  90            23*
malnutrition in pregnancy.
9. Immunization (UIP-6) of children.                                              85             21
10. Vitamin A megadose (100,000 - 200,000 i.u.) semi-annually to children         80             8
6-36 months.
11. Regular growth monitoring (>9 times a year) of children 0-3 years.            80             2
12. Supplementation of monitored children 0-3 years with grade II-IV malnutrition.  90          42*
13. Completed referral of severely malnourished children (grade m and IV) or non-  80           NA
responding children 0-3 years to VHN/MPWF and PHC.
14. Quarterly growth monitoring, weighing and charting of children 3-5 years (>3 times  60       25
of year).
15. Referral of severely malnourished children 3-5 years of age to MPWF/PHC.      90            NA
16. Administration of vitamin A megadose semi-annually to children 3-5 years of age.  70         7
17. Pre-school attendance (>80 % of working days)                                 60             43
18. Routine deparasitization of monitored children in heavily infected communities as  80       NA
deternined by parasite surveys
19. Household use of oral rehydration in the last incidence of diarrhea in the target  50        32
group.
20. Treatment of pneumonia by MPWF/AWW with co-trimaxazole in cases of acute      20             10
respiratory infection (ARI)
21. Additional feeds of local weaning food initiated by 6 months in infants.      50             48
22. Provision of 4 additional weaning feeds/day by 9 months in infants.           50            NA
23. Active women's working groups (> 9 meetings a year)                           70            NA
* Data not disaggregated by nutritional status



23
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES (ICDS I) PROJECT (Cr. 2173-IN)
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study                  at Appraisal/Redefined        Status        Impact of Study
Andhra Pradesh
1. Baseline Survey          To assess the level of nutritional  Completed  Based on the report, WB
status in A.P.                               ICDS project has been
launched.
2. Operations research on   To determine, test and disseminate    Completed  The strategies evolved have
Work routine, Supervision,  knowledge on optimum methods and             been field tested &
Referral Services, Joint    alternative systems in work routines,        implemented:
Coordination, Mgmt.         supervision, joint coordination,              1. Registers modified
Information System          referral services and MIS.                   2. Communication material
distributed to private
practitioners.
3. Revised instructions have
been issued for utilization of
referral fund.
3. Study on Communicaltion  To identify gaps in knowledge,    Completed  Communication material
Strategy                    attitudes and practices in                   have been developed to
communications.                              focus on ante-natal and
post-natal care and on
growth monitoring and
promotion.
4. Mid-term Evaluation      To assess the performance of the  Completed  Recommendations of the
program on key impact and process            study are being
objectives.                                 implemented:
1. Adolescent Girls Scheme
I extended in 110 projects.
2. Nutrition Resource
Centers closed.
3. Adolescent Girls Scheme
I closed.
5. Study on Therapeutic Food   To identify alternative approaches to  Not
therapeutic supplementary feeding    complete
for growth faltering, moderately and
severely malnourished children
under 3 years of age.
6. Mini evaluation on IGA  To assess the effectiveness of     Completed  Modifications in Income
implementation of IGA.                        Generation Activities
scheme like change of joint
account from Supervisor to
AWW; training component
for skill upgradation supply
of tool kit; training on
maintenance of account
have been incorporated.



24
Table 6: Studies Included in Project (continued)
Purpose as Defined
Study                  at Appraisal/Redefined       Status        Impact of Study
7. Nutritional Surveillance   Being conducted by NIN to      Not
System                        streamline monitoring system in   complete
ICDS.
8 Internal Evaluation on      Conducted by PMU to find out    Completed  Study findings
Adolescent Girls Scheme I     the effectiveness and impact of            implemented to improve
the scheme for further                    the scheme, e.g., (a) Girls
improvement.                               are interested to assist
AWW in preschool and
conduct WILL classes,
(b) the two years scheme
has been reduced to six
months to cover more
number of girls.
9. Internal Evaluation on     Conducted by PMU to find out    Completed  Finding of the study used to
Adolescent Girls Scheme II.   the effectiveness and impact of            improve the program:
the scheme for further                    1. Two years scheme
improvement.                              reduced to six months to
cover greater number of
girls.
2. Skill training on new
activities have been taken
up.
3. Preference is given to
girls trained under AG II
to get loans under various
other schemes like IGA,
DWCRA after completion
of 18 years age.
10. An evaluation study of    Conducted by PMU to find out    Completed  Study findings
'WILL' program                the effectiveness and impact of           implemented to improve
the scheme for further                    scheme, example: a) Girls
improvement.                              are interested to assist
AWW in pre-school,
Conduct WILL classes. b)
The two year scheme has
been reduced to six months
to cover more no. of girls.
11. A study on the pre-school  Conducted by State Resource   Report      To assess the quality,
education in ICDS.            Center ECE, Andhra Mahila      was         utilization of services,
Sabha, AP.                    submitted   perception and attitudes of
during     community.
1996.      Recommendations would be
implemented in the future.



25
Table 6: Studies Included in Project (continued)
Purpose as Defined
Study             at Appraisal/Redefined           Status        Impact of Study
Orissa
1. KAP study            To assess the existing condition of  Completed   Action being taken to
children and mothers.                         improve targeting
2. Alternative Therapeutic  Impact of different supplemental  Completed   Most effective
Supplementation strategies  strategies                                supplemental strategy
used.
3. Communication        Examine existing behavior and     Completed   Used to improve the
Strategy                understanding of program benefits.            effectiveness of program
4. Functional Task      Improve worker effectiveness.     Completed  Improve project
Analysis (work routines)                                              effectiveness.
5. Mid-term Evaluation  Review project mid-way from       Completed  Identified areas that
project commencement.                         needed strengthening.
6. End line survey      To collect end line survey data after  Not
completion of project.            completed
7. Base line survey     To collect base line survey data  Completed   Provided yardstick to
before conunencement of project.              measure project impact.
8. Evaluation of Women's  To evaluate Mahila Mandals Income  Completed    Used to increase the
program                 Generation Activities, WILL                   involvement of Mahila
Program and Adolescent Girls                  Mandal members in the
Scheme                                       various activities.
9. Therapeutic food     To know the impact on the        Completed    Used to improve targeting
supplementation         nutritional status of children &              of the project.
mothers.
10. Nutrition           Determine the extent to which the    Completed    Used to improve operation
Rehabilitation Centers  scheme has fulfilled its objectives           and effectiveness of the
(NRC's)                 and suggest changes in its operation.         NRC's.
11. Baby-cum-Child     To assess the advantages and     Completed    Used to improve weighing
Weighing scales         disadvantages of Baby-cum-Child               accuracy..
Weighing Scale against supply of
Salter weighing scale.
12. CHEER program       To know the extent of increased  Completed    Used to increase
listening skill, vocabulary, on the           effectiveness of the
social and cultural enrichment of the         program.
children.



26
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES (ICDS I) PROJECT (Cr. 2173-IN)
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)           Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local      Foreign      Total       Local        Foreign       Total
Item                Costs        Costs                   Costs         Costs
Service Delivery
1. Nutrition           97.3         5.5        102.8
2. Health               10.1        2.1         12.2
3. Training            14.9         0.7         15.6
Communications          9.4         0.5         9.9         AWAITING DATA FROM GOI.
DATA
Community               10.8        0.2         11.0      IS NOT MAINTAINED BY GOI IN $
Mobilization
Project
Management
1. Project              4.6         0.2         4.8
Organization
2. Monitoring and       1.2         0.0          1.2
Evaluation
Total Project Costs    148.3        9.2        157.5
* including taxes and duties of US$4.0 mnillion



27
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES (ICDS I) PROJECT (Cr. 2173-IN)
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M).        Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local    Foreign      Total       Local    Foreign      Total
Source               Costs     Costs                   Costs     Costs
IDA                   96.8        9.2        106.0
GOI                   40.4        0.0        40.4      NOT YET AVAILABLE FROM GOI
Andhra Pradesh         5.5        0.0         5.5
Orissa                 5.6        0.0         5.6
Total                 148.3       9.2        157.5



28
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES (ICDS I) PROJECT (Cr. 2173-IN)
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section  Covenant Present  Original    Revised         Description of           Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment      covenant
date       date
Article Im   3.01(a)  03, 04,    C                           The Borrower to cause the
05                                      project States to perform
their obligations under the
Project Agreement and
provide resources as
necessary.
Article m    3.01 (b)  03        C                           The Borrower to make the
Credit proceeds available to
each Project State.
Article III   3.02   05          C                           Procurement to be governed All procurements will
by the provisions of     be completed as
Schedule I to the Project   scheduled before
Agreement.               project closing.
Article Ill   3.03   10          C                           The Borrower to cause each
Project State to carry out
obligations relating to
insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and
schedules, records and
reports, maintenance, and
land acquisition.
Article M    3.04 (a)  09        C    12/31/1993             The Borrower to participate Mid-term review done
in carrying out the mid-term  as ofOl/08/1997.
review, and
Article Ill   3.04 (b)  09       C    09/30/1997             The Borrower to participate
in the final evaluation of the
Project.
Article IV   4.01 (a)  01        C                           The Borrower to maintain
adequate financial records
and accounts.
Article IV   4.01 (b)  01        C                           The Borrower to: (i) have
the financial records and
accounts audited.
Article IV   4.01 (b)  01        C                           (iii) furnish to IDA other
related information, as



29
Agreement  Section  Covenant Present  Original    Revised           Description of           Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment       covenant
date       date
requested.



30
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Article IV    4.01 (c)  01         C                             For all SOE expenditures,   Submitted as required.
the Borrower to: (i)
maintain adequate records
and accounts; (ii) retain all
records evidencing such
expenditures at least one
year after IDA has received
the audit report; (iii) enable
IDA representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records
are audited and that the
audit report contains a
separate opinion on the
SOEs.
Article II    2.01 (a)  05         C                             Project States to carry out
the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with
appropriate practices, and
Article nI    2.01    03, 04       C                             provide promptly the
resources required for the
Project.
Article II    2.01 (b)  05         C                             Project States to carry out
the Project in accordance
with the agreed
Implementation Program in
Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement.
Article II    2.02    10           C                             Project States to procure
goods, works, and services
in accordance with Schedule
I to the Project Agreement.
Article II    2.03    10           C                             Project States to carry out
obligations relating to
insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and
schedules, records and
reports, maintenance, and
land acquisition.
Article II    2.04 (a)  09         C                             Project States to exchange
views with IDA with regard
to Project progress.
Article II    2.04 (b)  09         C                             Project States to promptly
inform IDA of any condition
interfering with Project
progress.
Article III   3.01 (a)  01         C                             Project States to maintain
adequate records and
accounts;



31
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Article m    3.01 (b)  01        C                           Project States to (i) have the
records and accounts
audited.
Article m    3.01    01          C    12/31/1993             (ii) furnish to IDA: (A)
certified copies of their
records and accounts, and
(B) the audit report; and
(iii) furnish to IDA other
related information, as
requested.
Schedule 2  Para 1   12          C                           Each Project State to apply
and maintain beneficiary
selection criteria and
procedures, acceptable to
IDA, for nutrition
supplementation.
Schedule 2  Para 2    10         C                           Each Project State to (a)    Final report for (i)
carry out studies on     made available to the
nutrition and health under  Bank for comments.
satisfactory terms of
reference, including: (I)
organization, management
and routines of ICDS and
health staff at the block,
sector, and village level; and
Schedule 2  Para 2    10                                     (ii) alternate ways of
providing therapeutic
supplementation to growth
faltering and moderately
and severely malnourished
children under three years
of age;
Schedule 2  Para 2    I1D       CP   09/30/1991              (b) complete the study   The base line for the
under 2(a) (I) above, and    study has been
completed but the
Government of Orissa
suggested that the
study be dropped as it
will not be completed
before project closing.
Schedule 2  Para 2   05          C    04/01/1992             discuss the results of the
study under 2 (a) (i) above
with IDA; and
Schedule 2  Para 2   09,10       C    09/30/1994             (c) complete and discuss
with IDA the study under 2
(a) (ii) above.
Schedule 2  Para 3   05          C    01/01/1991             Each Project State to (a) set
up a Project Management
Unit in accordance with a
key staffmg plan staifactory
to IDA; and



32
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Schedule 2   Para 3    05            C                              (b) thereafter maintain the
unit.
Schedule 2   Pam 4    09             C                              Each Project State to furnish
to IDA, for review and
discussion: (aO quarterly
and annual progress reports
within three months of the
relevant implementation
period; and
Schedule 2   Para 4    10            C    01/31/1994                (b) aprospective annual
work plan on the activities
to be carried out under the
project, in formats
satisfactory to IDA.
Schedule 2   Para 5    09            C     12/31/1993               The project States shall, in   Completed.
conjunction with IDA, and
in accordance with
satisfactory terms of
reference and methodology,
undertake and complete: (a)
a mid-term review and
evaluation of the Project;
and
Scbedule 2   Pama 5    09           CP    09/30/1997                (b) a final evaluation of the  Field surveys for the
Project.                    endline study is
ongoing.
Schedule 2   Para 6    12           CP                              Each Project State shall     Sanctioned posts yet to
place one Additional        be completely filled
Supervisor (A.S.) in each    up.
block in the Project area.
Covenant types:
1.    Accountslaudits                                  S. = Indigenous people
2. =  Finmcial perfomance/revenue generafion fromn     9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
bmenficiaries                                   10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of projet fimds             11.    Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Co wnterpa fiunding                                     allocation
S. =  Managemt aspec of the project or executing       12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                 action
6. =  Enviometa covenan                                13. = Other
7. = bnvolunSty resettlement
8. Present Sttus:
C = covenat complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



33
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRAT'ED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES (ICDS I) PROJECT (Cr. 2173-IN)
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements (OMS)
The ICR did not identify any deviation of substance from the relevant OMS.



34
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES (ICDS I) PROJECT (Cr. 2173-IN)
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (in Staff Weeks)
Stage of                                     FY
Project Cycle                                                                        Total
90     91      92      93     94     95     96      97    98*
Lending
Development
Preappraisal          33.4                                                               33.4
Appraisal             17.1                                                               17.1
Negotiations           4.5   10.7                                                        15.2
Supervision                  10.0   29.0   51.7  41.7   14.5  45.8   30.5  18.2   241.4
Procurement                                                 0.8    0.4    1.1       _    2.3
Completion                                                                      11.5    11.5
TOTAL                 55.0   20.7   29.0   51.7  41.7   15.3  46.2   31.6  29.7   320.9
* as of April 21, 1998



35
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES (ICDS I) PROJECT (Cr. 2173-IN)
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating       |
Number      Total        Specialized    Implemen-    Development
Stage of         Month/            of       Days in       Staff Skdlls     tation        Objectives      Types of
Il~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
Project Cycle        Year          Persons      Field     Represented-        Status                      Problems/
Through Appraisal                                _
Appraisal through Board
Approval
Board Approval through                                                              _               _
Effectiveness
Supervision I            July 1991        4          12         H, N, TM            2               1            R, M
Supervision 2            June 1992        5          19        C, M, N, TM          3               2
Procurement Review 3    October 1992      1           4             P          not applicable   not applicable
Supervision 4          February 1993      3          21          C,N,W              3               2
Supervision 5            July 1993        4           9       C, N, PH, TM          2               2
Supervision 6            November         3          11         C, PH, TM           2               2
1993
Supervision 7            April/May        7           4       C, F, H, M., N,    not applicable   not applicable  M, R
1994                                   TM
Supervision 8            May 1994         4          26        C, N, TM, W          S              U
Supervision 9            April 1995       7          14       C, F, H, M, N,        S              U            M, R, S
TA, TM
Supervision 10         Jul/Aug 1995       3          18         0, P, TM       not applicable   not applicable   M, S
Supervision 11         January 1996       4           8       F, M, PH, TM          S              S
Supervision 12           June 1996        5          30       ME, TM, 0, M          S               2            S, M
Mid-term review 13     Jan/Feb 1997       4           9        F, M, N, TM          2               S            R, C
Supervision 14           May 1997         4           8         M, N, TM            S               S           AF, R
Completion 15            November         5           6         F, N, H, M          _              -              _
1997
/1 C=Communications, F=Finance, H=Health, M=vManagement, ME=Monitoring & Evaluation N= Nutrition,
O=Operations, PH= Public Health, TM=Task Manager, W=Women in Development
/2 1=No Significant Prolems, 2=Moderate Problems (i.e., there are significant, but not critical problems from
appraisal expectations), HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory.
/3 AF=Availability of funds, M=Project Management, S=Studies Progress, R=staff recruitment, C=civil works



Appendix A
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES PROJECT (ICDS I)
CREDIT NO. 2173-IN
WO]RLD BANK IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
NOVEMBER 1997
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank implementation completion mission visited Bhubaneswar from
November 17 .19, 1997 and Hyderabad from November 20-22, 1997. The field team
consisted of Mr. R. Sethuraman (Finance Specialist), Ms. Meera Priyadarshi (Nutrition
Specialist), Dr. Stuart Gillespie (Consultant) and Mr. P. Subramaniyam (Consultant and
Team Leader). Mr.A.K.Nanda from the DWCD of the Government of India accompanied
the mission to Orissa and Mr.B.K.Sharrna from the DWCD of the Government of India
accompanied the mission to Andhra Pradesh. This aide-memoire summarizes the main
findings of the mission.
2.    The mission is thankful to the States of Orissa and Andhra Pradesh for their full
co-operation, work facilitation and kind courtesies. Mission had detailed discussions with
the Directors of WCD Departments and the Project Coordinators and their staff members
in Bhubaneswar and Hyderabad. Wrap-up meetings were chaired by the Secretaries, WCD
Departments in Bhubaneswar and Hyderabad.
Mission Objectives and Overall Progress
3.    The objectives of the mission were to undertake a final review of progress before
the close of project on December 31, 1997 and to:
(a)   provide advice and support to the Borrower in the preparation of its
contribution to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR); and
(b)   record the views of the Borrower and the Bank on project implementation
4.    Overa]ll progress in the implementation of the project since the last review mission
was judged as fair in Orissa and very good in Andhra Pradesh although a definitive
judgement on the overall impact of the project will have to await the findings of the
Endline Evaluation which will be available in early 1998. Very good progress was in
evidence in Andhra Pradesh in the completion of the civil works While in Andhra Pradesh
the Project will be almost fully implemented, Orissa will have to double up its efforts to
achieve a similar status before project closing date. This is so because Orissa could not
make progress on civil works during the rainy season of the current year and is planning a
special drive to complete the pending works before close of project.



Appendix A
Page 2 of 6
5.    The performance against key indicators appears to be rather flat in Orissa and quite
good in Andhra Pradesh with a clear decline in the level of malnutrition. The prospect for
project sustainability in Orissa is quite good on the field level infrastructure and provision
of food supplement. However, it is dependent upon pro-active efforts to internalize the
capacities built under the project in areas like communication planning, training and
monitoring (see Annex 1 for details). The endline evaluations of the project currently
under way in both the states will throw more light on the impact of the project.
6.    While Andhra Pradesh will be almost fully spending the sanctioned amount under
the project (amount spent as on October 31, 1997 is Rs. 147.94 crores), Orissa will have
to double up its efforts in the remaining period of the project in order to achieve the same
(amount spent as on date is Rs. 147 crores against an EFC approved outlay of Rs. 184.27
crores. Out of this the State has already released Rs. 173.55 crores which is reported to be
available in the field for the various items of works.) Details of the financial status for
Andhra Pradesh may be seen in Annex 2.
Project Issues
7.    Completion of Thera eutic Study in Orissa. The baseline part of this study has
been completed, though delayed considerably. The completion of the supplementation part
of the study will take another twelve months. The agency is yet to start this part of the
work. The reason for the delay is stated to be the non-supply of the needed food
supplement by the state's production unit. The state, therefore, proposes to drop the
remaining part of the study as the project is drawing to a close.
8.    The mission agreed with this proposal as there is no time left for completing the
study. However, if the state chooses to go ahead with the study with its own resources,
the mission will have no objection to it.
9.    Construction of Additional Rooms in CDPO Office-cum-godowns in Orissa.
Availability of space for such construction appears to be a problem in certain places and
therefore the project management proposes to construct the additional rooms in places
away from the main office-cum-godowns. Mission discouraged this move and
recommended relocating the same near the main offices as far as possible, and it was
agreed to by the state.
Implementation Completion Review
10.   Mission received, reviewed and commented on the draft contributions to the ICR
from the Orissa and Andhra Pradesh project authorities. The mission's main comment was
that the drafts were in the nature of descriptive reviews of progress in terms of physical
and financial targets and generally lacked a critical analysis of the specific areas of
successes and failures along with reasons for the same. The lessons learned portion and
how these will be used for future project options was also missing.



Appendix A
Page 3 of 6
11.   The reports were more in the nature of the usual status reports. Mission has shared
some samples of earlier contributions with the project authorities in both the states and
requested them to prepare their drafts accordingly and restrict the write-up to about ten
pages in each case.
12.   Mission held extensive discussions with the project staff and other experts in both
the states regaLrding the outcome of the project and the factors considered responsible for
success or failure. The present assessments will be fine tuned after the availability of the
endline evaluation findings expected by end December, 1997. Dr. Stuart Gillespie will be
responsible for drafting the Bank's contribution to the ICR, with the assistance of the
other members of the mission and make it available to the New Delhi Office of the Bank in
January, 1998 for review and comments. A first draft of the Bank's contribution will be
made available in February, 1998 to the Government of India and the State Governments
of Orissa and Andhra Pradesh for their review and comments, and after finalization will be
submitted to Bank headquarters by March, 1998 .
Key Factors affecting Project Implementation and Impact
13.   The specific nutrition and health impact objectives for project areas in Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa differ in accordance with the staff appraisal report (SAR). They are:
Andhra Pradesh      Orissa
Reduction in severe malnutrition (grade III
and IV) among children 6-36 months by percent    50                50
Increase in proportion of children 6-36 months
of age in norrmal and grade I status by percent  25                25
Contribute towards reduction in IMR from
project start level to                           60               100
Contribute to reduction in incidence of
low birth weight by percent                      30                20
14.   Project Lmpact. Regarding project impact, conclusive evidence of progress
towards reducing severe and moderate malnutrition among under-three year olds will only
emerge with the findings of the endline survey which will be available in April 1998. The
mid-term review had earlier been considered flawed with respect to child anthropometry.
Monitoring data however suggest an improving trend in Andhra Pradesh between 1991
and 1996 and a relatively unchanged situation in Orissa between 1994 and 1996 for which
period data are available. With regard to the infant mortality rate, Orissa has experienced a
sharp drop in the seven years of the project, particularly in rural areas, while the IMR in
Andhra Pradesh has changed little. It is not possible to delineate the contribution of this
project to these IMR trends.



Appendix A
Page 4 of 6
15.   Finally, data limitations preclude any definitive statement on the change in low
birth weight incidence, but there is some evidence that points to improvements in line with
the targets.
16.   Service Deliverv. In terms of service delivery, using 1996 mid-term survey data,
progress in both states has been limited with respect to most of the process objectives.
Only 1-2% of 0-3 year old children are regularly weighed, around 40% receive
supplementary food for an average of 16 days per month. 20-25% of young children were
completely immunized and 8% received semi-annual mega-doses of Vitamin A. Less than
50% children received semi-solid complementary foods from 6 months of age. With
regard to service delivery to pregnant and lactating women, 70-80% pregnant women
were registered, although only 29-38% were registered in the first 20 weeks. Most
registered pregnant women had however undergone an obstetrical and nutritional risk
assessment and the great majority had received tetanus toxoid immunization. Sustained
consumption of iron and folic acid tablets however was low, at 8-15% pregnant women. A
conclusive picture of progress will be gleaned from the forthcoming endline survey.
17.  IEC and Training. The differential in nutritional status between the two states
particularly the limited impact on moderate malnutrition is likely to be due to the apparent
non-performance of the EEC component in Orissa and the late start on EEC interim
strategy in Andhra Pradesh. Had the formative research studies been completed in both
the states in time and the EEC strategy developed and implemented in time in both the
states it could have resulted in better movements from moderate to grade I and normal
levels. Similarly for the training input. Had the training focused better on the needs of 0-3
years age group children and more particularly focused on the role of supervisors as in situ
trainers of Anganwadi workers to enable them to better respond to the specific needs of
the individual workers, the quality of service delivery would have improved resulting in
the achievement of better nutritional status of children covered under the project.
18.   Women's Empowerment. Mahila mandals have been formed in all 17,793 centrs in
Orissa. All these groups have been supported with funds either from the project or under
the IMY program for group formation, skill training or upgradation. More than 500
women's groups have matured into thrift and credit societies and regular income
generation activities have been taken up by these groups. The project in Andhra Pradesh
has successfully trained (through their pranganams) and provided tool kits to women and
involved them in the construction of Anganwadi centres.
19.   Monitoring and Evaluation. In Andhra Pradesh, a systematic review of the
monitoring system had been undertaken. An innovative pilot nutrition surveillance scheme
has been tested with the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN), and subsequently used in
the revision of the monitoring proformae for the forthcoming Woman and Child
Development Project. Andhra Pradesh has provided useful regular updates on progress
towards the key impact and process objectives. In contrast, in Orissa, monitoring has been
relatively weak and little use is made of monitoring data to improve project
implementation at any level. MIS is virtually non-existent.



Appendix A
Page 5 of 6
20.   Operational Research. Several operational research projects were planned for
ICDS-I. Most of these have been seriously delayed - so much so that their findings can
only be used for future projects. Some studies e.g. the therapeutic food supplementation
trials have still not been completed. Where research has been completed, some attempt has
been made to use the findings to improve the project though this is not clear in all cases.
The quality of the Operational Research studies, however, has been generally poor. It is
essential that whatever findings are still found useful from the many delayed studies are
used in the general ICDS in Orissa and in the ICDS component of the proposed APER
project. The lack of an explicit communication strategy (due to delayed formative research
and qualitative field trials) has probably seriously limited the potential of the project to
improving caring behaviours and practices. Without a thrust on inter-personal
communications, it will be difficult to make a sustained dent on moderate malnutrition in
particular.
21.   Better Targeting on the Most Vulnerable. In both the states, the geographic and
socio-econornic targeting on the most vulnerable communities especially the tribals has
been a very significant achievement of the project. The opening of regular anganwadi
centres and mini anganwadi centres in the inaccessible tribal areas has resulted in reaching
the benefits of service delivery to the indigenous populations which otherwise would not
have received the same.
22.   Ca acit& BuildiLng. The project authorities in both the states are agreed on the fact
that the project has resulted in substantial capacity building in terms of planning for certain
crucial components like training, IEC, and MIS. Both the states have plans to build on
these gains. While Orissa proposes to do this as part of their general ICDS program,
Andhra Pradesh will do this under the proposed APER project's ICDS component as well
as in their general ICDS program.
23.   Infravtructural Base. The commitment of both the states to improving the
nutritional and health status of women and children has in fact resulted in the perceptible
infrastructural and capacity base for the delivery of such services. The enthusiasm to
sustain these gains is encouraging. If the lessons learnt are used in improving program
performance in future, that would result in substantial nutritional gains for the women and
children of the two states.
24.   Comments on the performance of the Bank will be included in the draft ICR. The
project authorities generally felt that the Bank's review missions were useful in gearing up
the implementation machinery for faster and better performance. However, procedures of
recruitment and procurement seemed to bog down the pace of implementation to a great
deal. These issues need to be addressed in future projects.
25.   The experience gained in this project has informed the preparation processes of the
proposed WCD and APER projects.



Appendix A
Page 6 of 6
26.   Conclusions
* The implementation of the project was judged by the mission as fair in Orissa and very
good in Andhra Pradesh, though a definitive judgement on the overall impact of the
project will have to await the findings of the endline evaluation.
* The progress of completion of civil works was found very good in Andhra Pradesh,
but not so in Orissa where the completion will depend upon the project's making
extraordinary efforts to complete them before closing date.
* Practically no communication strategy has been implemented in Orissa which is
evident from the absence of any improvement to moderate malnutrition while the
component has made some start in Andhra Pradesh though belated and interim. The
lesson learned is that procedural delays noticed in development of communication
strategy should have been avoided through a better understanding and appreciation of
the procurement plans.
* Almost all the operational research studies have been delayed. Some of them were not
completed (e.g. therapeutic studies). The quality of these studies have generally been
poor. Better procurement planning and better assessmemnt processes of the agencies
entrusted with research assignments are called for.
- The project has been successful in the creation of a wide infrastructure of service
delivery centres and trained personnel although the quality of training has not been
upto the mark.
- The project has been quite successful in both the states in the establishment of service
delivery centres in remote and inaccessible tribal areas thereby taking the benefits of
the project to the indigenous people who otherwise would not have been so covered.
Next Steps
27.   The project authorities in both the states are requested to pursue the expeditious
completion of the endline evaluations for the project and to revise their contributions to
the ICR. The mission, on its part, will prepare and present its ICR contribution for review
and comment by GOI, the project authorities, the State Governments, and Bank
management as per the time table indicated earlier in this aide-memoire.
28.   The mission would like to commend the project authorities in Orissa and Andhra
Pradesh for all the efforts in the implementation of this project.
New Delhi
November 26, 1997



Appendix B
Page I of 18
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEG]RATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES (ICDS 1) PROJECT
(Cr. 2173-IN)
Government of Andhra Pradesh
Borrower's Evaluation
Introduction
1.    Andhra Pradesh (AP) has a population of 66.35 million (1991 census) with a large
majority of 73.2% living in rural areas in 29,400 villages and the balance are Schedule
Caste (14.9%) and Scheduled Tribes 5.9%. According to the 1991 census overall literacy
in the state is 37.4% as compared with average of 52.1% in the country. Female literacy
as in many other states in the country is 33.7% and male literacy is 56.2%. The sex ratio
of females per 1000 males is 973.
2.    The ICDS program was sanctioned by the Department of Women and Child
Development in the year 1975 in Andhra Pradesh. By 1990, ICDS projects were covered
in 126 blocks in all 23 districts. The World Bank ICDS project was sanctioned during the
year 1990-91 for a period of six years covering 110 blocks in 13 districts in a phased
manner. The blocks covered yearwise under the World Bank ICDS project are given
below:
Year        Old       New      Total
1990-91     20        20        40
1991-92     24        23        47
1992-93     -         23        23
Total       44        66       100
3.    A total of Rs. 159.4 crores has been sanctioned for implementation of various
schemes under World Bank ICDS project. Given below are the yearwise details of
amount sanctioned and expenditure incurred during project period, i.e., 1990-91 up to
December 31, 1997:



ADnendix B
Page 2 of 18
Amount      Released    Budget Sanctioned
Year       as per EFC    by GOI         by GOAP          Expenditure
1990-91      9.72          5.00             -             2.20
1991-92     26.40         28.00           25.57          21.49
1992-93     32.85         14.00           24.73           16.26
1993-94     22.66         15.00           21.04           17.62
1994-95     20.55         16.10           27.57           19.49
1995-96     18.61         23.00           27.62           18.33
1996-97     28.61         31.07           26.83          30.96
1997-98       -           17.58           33.94          32.94*
Total       159.40       149.79           187.00         159.40
(including state share
of Rs.9.61 crores)
* Estimated expenditure by December 31, 1997
4.    The World Bank Assisted ICDS project is being implemented to improve Nutrition
and Health status of children under 6 years of age with special emphasis on children 0-3
years, and pregnant and nursing women with broad ICDS objectives for overall child
development. Specific Nutrition and Health impact objectives of project areas in AP are
given below:
i)    Reduction in severe malnutrition by 50%;
ii)   Increase in proportion of Normal and Grade I by 25%;
iii)   Reduction in incidence of low birth weight by 30%; and
iv)   Reduction in IMR from present level to 60.
Reasons for Success of the Project
5.    The Nodal Department at the state level is the Department of Women
Development and Child Welfare in A.P. A separate cell was also established at Secretariat
for speedy process of proposals relating to ICDS implementation. Project Management
Unit was established during 1991.
6.    The State of Andhra Pradesh has initiated a number of policies and programmes
which have resulted in significant improvement in the situation of women and children to
follow World Summit for Children held in September 1990 and the National Plan of
Action by Department of Women & Child Development, GOI in August 1992. The State
Programme of Action was released in May 1994 which identified major goals and specific
goals to achieve by 2000 AD covering child health, maternal health, nutrition, education,
girl child and adolescent girls. Andhra Pradesh State Action Plan for Women was also
released in 1994 to integrate women at all levels into the mainstream of development and



Appendix B
Page 3 of 18
economic activity by 2000 AD. These activities taken up by State Government have
contributed aL lot for the success of ICDS project implementation.
7.    To monitor the progress of World Bank ICDS project an Empowered Committee
has been constituted with all the Secretaries related to ICDS implementation as members
under the chairmanship of Chief Secretary. The meetings were conducted from time to
time during t:he project period to accelerate the progress of implementation of World Bank
ICDS project, and to coordinate the activities of other departments towards ICDS
objectives and also to monitor the activities. A State Level Coordination Committee with
all the departments related to implementation activities on Women and Children was also
formulated.
8.    Regular monitoring of programme implementation was possible due to regular
monthly review meetings conducted by the Director and Project Director with District
level officers. It enabled us to give regular instructions to the field functionaries and to get
feedback. Regional Review meetings conducted by Secretary and Director quarterly also
gave the opportunity to give clear instructions to field functionaries and facilitated two-
way exchange of information which led to quick decisions and solutions to the problems.
Regular monthly meetings at district level, project level and at sector level also enabled the
entire administrative set-up to monitor the programme effectively.
9.    Various studies conducted during the project period like the Baseline study at the
time of initiation helped the project to identify the priority issues Operations Research
studies on work routines, supervision, referral services, joint coordination and
management information were also conducted. Knowledge attitudes and practices (KAP)
study was conducted for finalization of Communications strategy. To streamline the
monitoring system in ICDS, Nutrition Surveillance system was undertaken by NIN in AP
Orientation training on reporting systems were conducted to all field functionaries from
Programme Officers level to AWW level for a period of one year. The final report will be
presented during December 1997.
10.   The quality of services at field level is taken care of by periodical job course,
refresher course and orientation training programmes which provided them with
strengthened capabilities like improved communication skills to perform their job well.
For conduct of training two middle level training centres and 48 AWTCs were set up.
The CDPOs were trained at NIPCCD. The need to strengthen the service delivery in
ICDS with focus on reaching the most needy i.e. 0-36 months, pregnant and lactating
women was identified through training need assessment study conducted by PMU. Based
on the needs identified DTTs have been formed in all 13 West Bengal districts.
11.   The Early Childhood Education programme being conducted at Anganwadi
Centres aims to provide a learning environment for the promotion of social, emotional,
cognitive physical and aesthetic development of the child through joyful play way method
contributing to universalization of primary school education especially of girl children.
Pre-school play material has been supplied to all AWCs. Supply of print material audio-



ADDendix B
Page 4 of 18
video cassettes under CHEER programme improved the attendance in pre-school classes.
Standard Curriculum for ECE activities was also developed in collaboration with AMS.
12.   Supply of Medicines to AWCs, Sub-centres, PHCs contributed for better utility of
ICDS services in the community. Better coordination with Health functionaries helped in
utilisation of medicines which also contributed for better coverage of immunisation both
for children and pregnant women.
13.   Communication cell was set up in Project Management Unit which played a crucial
role in stimulating the demands for project services, increasing community participation
and then by slowly owning the programme by the community. The communication
strategies adopted were organising community education/awareness activities like well
baby shows, exhibitions, folk performances, printing of material like posters, flip books,
calendars, new letter development and multiplication of audio and video programmes to
deliver ICDS messages, etc.
14.   Around 10,500 Self help women groups have been formed in all 110 projects.
Around 4020 groups have been benefited by the activity. Women groups in AP have
taken active role to popularise the services of ICDS. Provision for skill training and
supply of tool kit enabled sustainability of the programme.
15.   Training to women groups in masonry/construction is a landmark in providing
economic empowerment to women in AP. Some of the AWC buildings planned during
later part of implementation of the project were constructed by women.
16.   Adolescent Girls-I Scheme aimed to improve the health and nutritional status and
overall development of future mothers. It provided in-house training to three girls per
AWC through delivery of ICDS services and provision of non-formal education. Around
87,000 girls per year were benefited over six years in the project.
17.   Adolescent Girls-II Scheme, a vocational-cum-production scheme, was
implemented in 14 selected blocks up to 1995-96 and was extended to all 110 projects as
it was identified as a felt need. Altogether 35,000 girls were trained under this scheme
over a period of six years.
18.   Good infrastructure to the project has been provided by sanctioning construction
of a total number of 4150 AWCs covering 20% of the functioning AWCs. A total number
of 73 office-cum-godown and 1630 handpumps are also sanctioned in the project
buildings have been constructed with the help of construction agencies like AP State
Housing Corporation Ltd., AP Industrial Infrastructural Corporation and Tribal Welfare
Department.



Appendix B
Page 5 of 18
Degree of Achievement of Project Objectives
Impact Objectives
19.   Reduction in severe malnutrition by 50%. The percentage of severe
malnutrition Grade III and IV was 8% durilng 1990-91 as per NIN study. Severe
malnutrition percentage of children 0-3 years over project period is given below:
1991     1992      1993     1994      1995     1996  1997
7.57     5.06      3.98     2.59      1.95     1.61  1.10'
The percentage of severe malnutrition was 7.57 in the year 1991 has come down
to 1.10 by 1997. The percentage of reduction is 86 over a period of 7 years which means
the degree of achievement of the objective is much better than the goal set.
20.   Increase in proportion of Normal and Grade I by 25%. The percentage of
Normal and Grade I was 57% during 1990-91 as per NIN study. The percentage of
Normal & Grade-I children below three years during project period is given below:
1991     1992      1993     1994     1995      1996  1997
60.49    68.33    69.56    70.76    73.62    75.57 74.451
The percentage of Normal and Grade I had gone up to 74.45 during 1997 from
60.49 during 1991. The percentage of increase accounts to 23%.
21.   Reduction of Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) from present level to 60. A
positive trend has been obtained in the basic indicator of child health, i.e. IMR, over the
project period. According,to NFHS (1992) IMR is 71 per 1000 live births. The Mid
Term Evaluation (1996) findings say that the IMR is 62.4 per 1000 live births.
Information available from Nutritional Surveillance System conducted by NIN in AP
ICDS projects says that the average IMR is about 40 per 1000 live births.
1992        1996         1996        1997
NFHS        MTE          MPR         NSS
712         623          55          40'
23.   Reduction in incidence of low birth weight by 30%. National survey indicates
that the mean birth weights in India range from 2.49 to 2.97 kgs, with about 30% new
boms being less than 2.5 Kg. (1991). Mid term evaluation says out of 17% institutional
deliveries accounts to 24% (1996) whereas NSS conduct by NIN in project areas says that
it is around 7.29% which indicates reduction of 3/4th approximately as against 1/3rd (30%
reduction) objective set for. However this information pertains to pregnant mothers
registered in AWCs.



Appendix B
Page 6 of 18
Process Objectives
Objective (%) Achievement ()
SAR (1990)       (1997)
*   Early registration of pregnant women          50              383
*   Total registration of pregnant women          80               80
*   Obstetrical and Nutritional risk assessment
of those registered                           100
*   Tetanus Toxoid immunisation of pregnant
women                                        90            90/86'
*   Consumption of Iron and Folic Acid tabs. for
at least 12 weeks by pregnant women          60           467/643
*   Administration of post-partum to attend the
deliveries                                   80
*   Food Supplementation for at least 20 weeks
to registered pregnant women with inadequate
nutritional status                           80               90
*   Immunization (UIP-6)                          90          90/66.54
*   Vit. 'A' megadose (1,00,000-2,00,000)         80              524
*   Regular Growth Monitoring more than 9
times in a year of children 0-3 years        80               57
3   Supplementation of monitored children 0-3
years with Gr. II-IV malnutrition            90              100
3   Completed referral severely malnourished
children Gr. III and IV or non-responding
children -3 yrs. to VHN/MPWF and PHC         80
*   Administration of Vit. 'A' megadose semi-
annually to children 3-5 years of age        80               52
*   Preschool attendance (more than 80% of
working days)                                80               95
*   Routine deparatisation of monitored children
in heavily infected communities as determined
by parasite surveys                          90
*   Household use of oral dehydration in the last
incidence of diarrhoea in the target group   60               35
*   Treatment of pneumonia by MPWF/AWW
with co-trimaxazole in case of Acute
Respiratory Infection (ARI)                  30               35
*   Additional feeds of local weaning foods
initiated by 6 months in infants             60               473



Apoendix B
Page 7 of 18
Plan for Project's Future Operations
*     Adolescent Girl Scheme and Income Generating Activities (IGA) for women was
an appropriate policy initiative and needs to be sustained in future.
*     The positive experiences of ICDS I will be the basis to reach new heights under
APER ICDS II.
Source:
I  Nutritional Surveillance System by NIN in AP 1996-97
2  National Family Health Survey 1992
3  Mid-Term Evaluation conducted in ICDS projects 1996
4  Multi-Indicator Coverage Evaluation Survey 1995-96 by UNICEF



Appendix B
Page 8 of 18
INDIA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES (ICDS I) PROJECT
(Cr. 2173-IN)
Government of Orissa
Borrower's Evaluation
Introduction
1.    In Orissa, 229 ICDS projects in 223 blocks and 6 urban areas have became
operational. Out of these projects, 191 are World Bank-assisted ICDS projects. These
191 projects were covered in a phased manner in 1990-91 (107), 1991-92 (42), and 1992-
93 (42). The project coverage in different areas is as follows:
Rural   -    74
Tribal  -   117
Total   -   191
Special Features of World Bank Project
2.    The special features of the project are:
i)    Enrichment of the existing ICDS schemes;
ii)    Supply of additional medicines, referral funds, and delivery kits;
iii)   Supply of communication materials to AWCs/Projects/Districts and State
Headquarters;
iv)   Installation of hand pumps for supply of safe drinking water and construction of
CDPO offices and AWCs;
v)    Training of ICDS personnel at all levels including joint training of ICDS and
Health functionaries;
vi)   Supply of Early Childhood Education materials and supporting innovative training;
and
vii)   Providing a revolving fund for mopeds to support mobility of Supervisors.
Innovative Schemes of the World Bank Project
3.    The innovative schemes under the project are:
i)    Community Mobilization;
ii)    Women's Integrated Learning for Life (WILL);
iii)   Scheme for Adolescent Girls (AG);
iv)   Income Generation Scheme (IGS);
v)    Nutrition Rehabilitation Centre (NRC); and



Appendix B
Page 9 of 18
vi)   Therapeutic Food Supplementation
The World Bank Project envisaged to achieve the following impact objective over six
years of the project period from 1990-91 to 1996-97:
Impact Objectives                      Target          Achievement
i)    Reduction in severe malnutrition of   50%          30% (as compared
Grade III and IV among children under             with National Family
3 years of age                                    Health Survey
(NFHS)., 1993)
ii)   Increase in proportion of children below    25%    4.5 % (taking
3 years of age in Normal and Grade I              National Institute of
status                                            Nutrition as the base)
iii)   Reduction of IMR from base level to  100/1000    95/1000
iv)   Reduction in incidence of low birth   20%          23%
weight babies
4.    The achievements are based on the mid-term evaluation (MTE) study conducted
during 1996. In the area of malnutrition, the project has two goals: malnutrition of Grade
III and IV was to be reduced by 50% and proportion of children in normal and Grade I
status had to be increased by 25%. By comparing the MTE estimates with the NIN base-
line, there has not been much progress. Apart from the base line of NIN, the NFHS 1993
is another source with which the nutrition status of children as per the MTE was
compared for this purpose. The MTE measure was converted to NFHS standards. This
comparison revealed that the proportion of severely under-nourished children has come
down by around 30% from 29.8% among Scheduled Tribes to 21.5% in the MTE. In case
of Orissa, the comparison of Scheduled Tribes estimates of NFHS with MTE is valid
because of the high proportion of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the project
area.
5.   In the area of low birth weight babies the achievement is absolutely on target. The
achievement on reduction of Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) was absolutely in consonance
with the set project goal. Looking at the SRS figure on IMR, in the year 1975 the IMR
was 149 and in the year 1990, it came down to a level of 122 which means a reduction of
27 over a period of 14 years. But in the year 1996 this has come down to 95. Thus from
1990 to 1996 there was a reduction of 27 in the IMR. Incidentally, this period of 1990-
1996 coincides with World Bank project period. Since ICDS is an integrated approach
for improvement of health and nutrition through a package of services, it may reasonably
be concluded that the ICDS scheme is a major contributing factor for the sharp decline in
the IMR.



Appendix B
Page 10 of 18
Process Objectives
6.    The project had set some process objectives in the implementation of the ICDS
program. The achievement in the field of process objectives is given below:
Process Objectives                      Target       Achievement
(according to
MTE findings)
i) Total registration of pregnant women          80%           71%
ii) Early registration of pregnant women         50%           29%
iii) Obstetrical and nutritional risk
assessment of these registered               100%          61%
iv) T.T. immunisation of pregnant women          80%           71%
v) Consumption of iron and folic acid tablets    60%           15%
for a tleast 12 weeks for pregnant women
vi) Food supplementation for at least 16 weeks   90%           22.6%
of registered lactating women with
malnutrition in pregnancy
vii) Delivery attended by Doctors/Nurse/                       26%
Mid wife/Trained Dai
viii)Mothers given PNC check up                                32%
ix) Mothers with complication referred                          4%
Child Care
i) Immunisation of children                      85%          21%
Process     (complete
objective    immunisation)
MTE findings
Colostrum Feeding                                             50%
As per the NIN study data 1990. The
incidence of colostrum feeding was 26%.
Thus the communications and nutrition
and health education has had a definite impact
Additional feeds of local weaning                50%          48%
food initiated by 6 months
The goal has been nearly met



Appendix B
Page 11 of 18
Growth Monitoring
i) Regular growth monitoring of 0-3 years       80%          2.2 %
children (9 times a year)
ii) Weighed at birth                             -           8%
iii) Weighed within one month of birth                       52%
iv) Children estimated to be in Grade III and    -           12%
IV (Severe malnutrition)
v) Vitamin - A mega-dose semi-annually          80%          21%
children 6 to 35 months
vi) Children 36-71 months                       70%          8%
The Proportion of Children receiving Iron and Folic Acid Tablet
i) Children 0-35 months                                      8%
ii) Children (36-71 months)                                  11%
Supplementary Feeding
Children 6-35 months
i) Children receiving supplementary food                     42%
Children 36-71 months
i) Receives supplement                           -           33 %
ii) Average days of feeding                       25         17
Treatment Given for Fever/Cough
i) Children 0-35 months                                      71 %
ii) Children 36-71 months                        -           74 %
The Proportion of Children given ORT
i) 0-35 months    50%   32%
ii) 36-71 months                                50%          45 %
7.    Thus the MTE finding reveals that the ICDS project had a positive impact in the
area of reduction of IMR, reduction of low birth weight babies, reduction of severe
malnutrition early/total registration of pregnancy, TT immunization of mother, colostrum
feeding, knowledge of ORT, local weaning food, etc. Nevertheless, in state like Orissa
there is miles to go in the area of health, nutrition care of children and mothers.



Appendix B
Page 12 of 18
Infrastructure Development
8.    With the World Bank funds 140 CDPO office buildings, 90 additional godown
buildings, 3892 Anganwadi Centres (AWCs) buildings have been constructed in the
project area. Besides, 5292 hand pumps have been installed in the premises of AWC
building. Apart from this, the State Government have taken up large number of buildings
out of state resources, Employment Assurance Schemes (EAS) and Jawahar Rojgar Yojna
(JRY) funds.
Other Innovative Schemes
9.    Under the referral scheme 243410 children and 103362 pregnant and nursing
mothers have been benefitted during the project period.
10.  In the adoloscent girls training progamm 271635 girls have been trained in literacy,
health, hygiene child care etc. In order to prepare them as resource persons for the
community and to face the challenge of motherhood in future, women's integrated
learning for life which has been implemented in 14 projects and has benefitted 34357
number of adult women by providing them training in literacy and numeracy skill, training
on health, hygiene, sanitation and safe motherhood.
11.   Through the income generating schemes, funds to the tune of Rs.778.74 lakhs has
been released. 17259 number of Mahila Mandals have been benefitted. The intemal
evaluation of the scheme reveals that the average earning of the women groups from the
Income Generating Scheme is about Rs. 150/- to Rs.200/- per month.
Innovation under Monitoring and Information Systems (MIS)
12.   The Project management unit has a computer system. All the ICDS reports and
returns have been computerised at the state level and the data are being analyzed for better
monitoring. For strengthening the MIS following steps have been taken:
i)    Reports are flowing from the project level to the PMU. These are channeled
through the District Program Officers in order to strengthen the district level
monitoring system;
ii)    The Statistical Assistants of the projects and the District ICDS Cells were given
training on statistical techniques of systematic collection, compilation,
representation, analysis and interpretation of data with reference to the ICDS
Scheme. The software on Child Development Project Officers (CDPOs) Monthly
Progress Report (MPR) was installed at the district level and the Program Officers
were asked to computerize the ICDS MPR at district level with the help of District
Unit of National Informatic Centre (NIC). In order to streamline the monitoring
in the financial matter a software was developed by the statistics and monitoring
cell of the Project Management Unit (PMU) with the help of officers of NIC. The



ApDendix B
Page 13 of 18
software has provision of generating project level, district level and state level
report;
iii)   The Statistical Asstistants of the district ICDS Cells were trained on data entry
and report generation in these two softwares (software for CDPOs MPR and
software for financial MPR);
iv)   Impact indicators and process indicators relating to the objectives were analysed
and feedback given to the districts and projects with the help of softwares on
CDPOs MPR; and
v)    Nutrition trend analysis of children in 0-3 years of age group was done and the
feedback given to the field level.
Training
13.   As a part, of the human resources development program, different job courses,
refresher course,s orientation, joint training of medical and ICDS staff were conducted
during the project period. The achievements are given in the attached Statement.
Communicationi
14.   The commnunication cell is the mouth-piece of the project in order to create the
awareness of the facilities, services and their benefits etc. The communication cell has
taken the following steps:
i)    The campaign captioned "Campaign CHILDREN" has been launched covering all
the project areas to create awareness on delivery of services under ICDS schemes;
ii)    The CHEER programme captioned "KALIKA" was broadcast through All India
Radio. 4058 AWCs were provided with two-in-one sets to receive the program;
iii)   Anganwadi news-letter was published and circulated in all the AWCs as a media of
communication; and
iv)   The communication cell prepared camera ready (proto type) communication
materials like posters, banners, leaflets, booklets, brochures and wall paintings
which were designed and developed. The popular news letter "Anganwadi" was
distributed to the AWCs. The training manual for District Training Teams (DTTs)
training booklet and folders for campaign children were designed, printed and
distributecd by the communication cell. State level workshop and district level
workshop on traditional media were also organized. Field visits were undertaken
to monitor the ongoing communication activities like exhibitions, baby shows,
Nutrition and Health Education (NHED) sessions, etc. Besides, retransating of
original Hindi/English version of State Action Plan for Children 2000 and State



Appendix B
Page 14 of 18
Policy for Disabled Children, was done. Manual for preparation and use of
community growth chart, adolescent girls instructor kits, growth monitoring
manual were also prepared.
Studies
15.   With World bank assistance, a good number of studies by external agencies and
the staff of the PMU have been conducted. Based on the studies some interventions have
been taken up and these studies will work as a guide in future as ICDS is going to be
universalized in the state.
Constraints
16.   Procedural delay in purchase of medicine, equipment and instruments and huge
vacancy of Supervisors with a case being subjudice in Hon'ble High Court for a long
period are some of the major constraints of the project implementation. A large number of
buildings (1600) AWC buildings, 50 CDPO office buildings, 90 addlitional godown
buildings were sanctioned at a later stage (March 1997 to August 1997) and as a result
difficulty was faced in their completion.
Sustainability of the Project
17.   The project period was over on December 31, 1997. Under the project a big
infrastructure has been created. In the budget there is provision for maintenance of
normal activities under ICDS out of central assistance. But for innovative schemes like
IGA, WILL, Referrals, adolescent girls' training there is no such provision. As regards
the staff of PMU, the Government of India have been moved for continuance of the post
of Project Coordinator (PC), Supervisor-cum-DEOs, Chowkidars and Peons under
Central ICDS Plan. A reply is yet to be received from GOI. It is felt necessary to
establish the PMU consisting of PC, Research Advisor, Communications Adviser,
Assistant Directors, and Research Officer, Statistical Investigators, Senior Assistants,
Accountants, Stenographers, Drivers and Chowkidars.
Conclusion
18.   The Mid-Term Evaluation reveals that the Word Bank project has been able to
achieve the impact objectives such as reduction of IMR, reduction of severely
malnourished children in 0-3 years age group, reduction of low birth weight babies.
Besides, many of the process indicators have been achieved and awareness in the area of
health, nutrition, care of children and mothers have been generated in the rural and tribal
areas. The sharp decline in the IMR during the project period also indicated positive
impact of the ICDS program in the State. The schemes like training of adolescent girls,
referrals, WILL, IGA have contributed for the development of women and children in the
far flung rural and tribal areas of the state.



Appendix B
Page 15 of 18
19.   In the area of health and nutrition of children and mothers, a lot more has to be
done in the state to sustain the impact of the World Bank project. Nevertheless, the
typical features of the state, characterized by high concentration of Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes, low level of female literacy, high level of IMR and high level of severe
and moderate malnutrition justified for special thrust in the ICDS program, to maintain the
tempo of achievement of the World Bank project. In view of these the sanction of a
second World Bank project for the state of Orissa merits consideration.



Appendix B
Page 16 of 18
Statement
KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key Implementation Indicators                  Estimated          Actual
in SAR/President's Report
A      Expansion of New Areas
1      Establish new blocks/ICDS Project            122                122
2      Establish Dist. ICDS Cell                     17                 17
3      Setting of Anganwadis                      17793              17793
4      Appointment of new Supervisor                444                299
(84 new blocks)
B.     Improved Coverage
1.     TT Immunisation                               88                 71  (as per MTE)
2.     Immunization                                  85                 21
3.     Regular growth monitoring                     80                  2     -do-
68 (as per MPR)
4.     Referrals                                     80             103362  Mothers
243410  Children
5.     Regular pre-school attendance                 60                 80  (as per MPR)
C.     Other Civil Works
1.     Block office/warehouse                       140                140
2.     AW Construction                             3892               3892
3.     Additional Godown in 90 CDPO offices          90                 90
4.     Handpumps                                   1146 LWS           1146  ]5292
4146 RD            4146  ]
D.     Maternal and Nutritional Rehabilitation       25                 25
Centers
E.     Pre-school Education Kits                      -              14155  Sets
F.     Therapeutic Supplementation                26726  C           26726  C
560 M              560  M
Community Mobilization
1.     Establish Mahila Mandals                   17793              17793
2.     Income generating grants released to        6800              17259
women's groups
3.     WILL classes operating in Aws                720               1212
4.     Adolescent girls training                      -             271635  3 days
248417  5 one day



Appendix B
Page 17 of 18
Training
1.     Establishment of anganwadi training
centers                                       26                 22
2.     Organization and training of District
Training Teams (DTTs)                         16                 11
Pre-Service Training for New Staff
1.     Anganwadi workers                          17793               17676
2.     Anganwadi helper                           17766               17201
3.     Supervisor                                  1046                 901
4.     Addl. Supervisor (Community Mobilization)     33                  29
5.     Child Development Project Officer            191                 191
Refresher Training
1.     Child Development Project Officers           191                 113
(8 days every 3rd year)
2.     Supervisors (8 days every second year)       901                 835
3.     AWWs (12 days every second year)           17667               13146
4.     AWWs (8 days every second year)            17201                8546
Joint Training
1.     CDPOs and MOs                            191/939             197/893
2.     Supervisor and Lady Health Visitor      1046/415             801/271
3.     AWWs and ANMs                         18351/3655          13494/4583
4.     Helpers and TBAs                     18351/18351         12836/10988
5.     Nutrition management training of             975                 745
Medical Officer
6.     Trainers training                            374                 281
7.     Training of DSWOs/TOs/ADSWOs/                118                  61
SSWOs
8.     Helpers training (84 new projects)          7800                7403
9.     Pre-job training of AWWs                    4000                3165
(69 old projects)
Orientation Training
1.     CDPOs                                         96                  29
2.     Supervisors                                 1046                 961
3.     AWWs                                       17793               17558
4.     AW Helpers                                  8000                2537
5.     Mahila Mandal (President & Secretary)      15560               10137
6.     Reorientation training of Helpers           9000                8688
Communication
1.     Radio/TV                                 14/4580             14/4580
2.     Audio Cassettes                            22900               22900
3.     Toys                                       17793  Sets         17793  sets
4.     DTT                                             1 Set              1 set
5.     Computer                                        1 Set              1 set



ADendix B
Page 18 of 18
Procurement
1.     Weighing scale                             21877  Sets        21877  sets
2.     Vehicles                                     187                 126
3.     AW articles                                  191  proj.          191 proj.
4.     Typewriter/Duplicator                         153                153
5.     Folk instrument                               191 proj.          191 prj.



