Dacmwnt of
The World Bank
FOR omCAL USE OLY
Rqouat No. P-6326-GA
PEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
-                 0F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTRlNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN IIE AM)OUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$5.2 MLION
TO THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
JUNE 10, 1994
This document has a restricted distibution nd way be usd by recipiet only in the perfomaace of
their offlcWi duties. Its content may not otherwie be dbclosed withou Wold Bank authorizatio.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 12, 1994)
Cufrency Unit                                CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                                         CFAF 587
CFAF I million                               US$1704
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADL               =      Libreville Airport (Adroport de Libreville)
AIRGABON          =      Civil Aviation Company (Compagie AMienne Nationale)
ASECNA            =      Agency for Air Navigaion Safety
(Agence pour la SdcuritW de la Navigation Adrienne)
CGC               =      Shippers' Council (Conseil Gabonais des Chagus)
CNI               =      Coastal Transport Company (Compagnie de Navigation 1t6rieure)
ERL               =      Economic Recovery Loan (Projet d!Aide A la Relance Econorique)
GDP               =      Gross Domnestic Product (Produit Int6rieer Brut)
MEC               =      Ministry of Equipment and Construction
(Minisoire de I'Equipement et de Ia Construction)
MEPRSPP           =      Minist of Economy, Planning, Pubolic Sector Restructring and
Privaization
(Mnist6re de l'Economie, de la Planification, du Redressement du
Secteur Parapublic et de la Privatisation)
MHCU              =      Ministry of Housing, Cadastre and Urban Planning
(Ministre c  'lHabitat4 du Cadastre et de lUrbanisme)
MMMP              =      Mstry of Merchant Shipping and Fisheries (Minist6re de la Marine
Marchande et de la PNce)
MTTPN             =      Ministry of Transport, Toursm and National Parks (Ministbre des
Transports, du Tourisme et des Parcs Natonaux)
MUNICIPALlTY             Municipality of Libreville (Municpalt de Libreville)
OCTRA                    National Gabonese Railway Company
(Office du Chomin de Fer Transgabonais)
OPRAG             =      Port Authority (Office des Ports et des Rades du Gabon)
SNAT              =      National Stevedoring -and Transit Company
(Societe Nationale d'Acconage et de Transit)
SONATRAM          -      National Shippmg Line (Societe Nationale de Transport Maritime)
UDEAC             =      Ce"tral Africa Customs and Economnic Union
(Union Douartire et Econamique de l'Afrique Centrale)
FISCAL YEAR
Jamnary 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GABONESE REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Gabonese Rlepublic
Main beneficiaries:         Ministry of Economy, Planning, Public Sector Restructring, and
Privatization
Mistry of Equipment and Construction
Ministry of Transport, Tounism and National Parks
Ministry of Merchant Shipping and Fisheries
Transport Sector Public Ent-mrises
Minstry of Housing, Cadastu and Urban Planning
Municipality of Libreville
Amount:                      US$5.2 nillion equivalent
Terms:                       Standard IBRD terms with a maturity of 15 years including a five-year
grace period.
Financing Plan:
_US$ million
IBRD                      5.2
Other Donors              1.3
Govenment                 1.8
Total                     8.3
Economic Rate of Return,    Not Applicable
Poverty Category:           Progran of Targeted Interventions
Staff Appraisal Report:     None
Map:                        IBRD 25809
This document has a resuicted diW on and may be used by recdpis  oy i. te eow drmancfthe
cfflcal duties Its content may not othevi be disclosed witht Wodd Es k mahriaion.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THIE GABONESE REPUBLIC
FOR A TRANSPORT SECTOR TECNINCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and reconnmendation on a
proposed loan to the Gabonese Republic for the equivalent of US$5.2 million. The proposed loan
would have a maturity of 15 years, including a five-year grace period, at the standard variable
interest rate. It would help finance a transport sector technical assistance project.
2.    Country Background. After several years of economic growth, Gabon has suffered
economic difficulties since 1985. During 1985 and 1986, Gabon's nominal GDP fell 38 percent,
while Government revenues dropped 58 percent; public investment was cut by 69 percent, and the
public and publicly guaranteed debt doubled in US dollar terms, to US$2 bi}lion. Additional
resources from the petroleum sector have somewhat alleviated the budget deficit since 1989, but
the economic difficulties are expected to last for some time.
3.    Although, in 1992, Gabon devised a strategy to support sustainable growth, so far, the
country has been unable: (it) to restore internal and external balances; and (b) to diversify its oil-
based economy, and thus to reduce its vulnerability to oil sector fluctuations. The new strategy
aimed to reorient the state's role toward management of the economy, pulling it out of economic
operations and focusing instead on creating a flexible incentive framework for fostering private
sector growth. The January 1994 realignment of the parity of the CFAF (from CFAF 50 to CFAF
100 for 1 French franc) provides a new Gpportunity to implement the strategy, thanks to the
important gains in competitiveness the realignment brings about. An efficient transport sector is
therefore essential to ensure that these gains in competitiveness translate into increases in
employment and productive activity throughout the economy. The Economic Recovery Loan
(ERL, Report P-6361 -GA dated May 31, 1994), will support Gabon in its economic refom
following the CFAF devaluation.
4.    Transport Sector Issues. While key to the Gabonese economy, the transport sector
represents a heavy drain on public finance--a drain in 1990 of about US$ 10 million, excluding
civil works. That same year, the sector received about US$43 million in subsidies. Between 1980
and 1990, investments in the transport and public woiAs sector were US$345 million,
representing on average about half of tLe annual pubiic investment program. Poor performance
stems primarily from the public enterprises. The informal sector receives no subsidies and
contributes positively to the economy. In 1991, the transport sector contributed US$750 million
to GDP, or about 14 percent, and about 7 percent of totai value adoed, mainly in salaries (80
percent of value added), suggesting a tendency to overstaffing.
5.    Public enterprises dominate tile transport sector, but do little to promote the development
of a modem economy. They rely heavily on direct or indirect State subsidies. Their management is
not filly held accountable for results. Management and investment decisions are often based on
technical criteria rather than on financial or ec aomical criteria, without regard to the enterprises'
ability to service their debt. Between 1987 and 1991, accumulated deficits amounted to US$235



2
million for the railway company, US$36 million for the national airline, and US$31 million for the
national shipping line. Other public enterprises in the sector include the public coastal transport
company which is bankrupt; the shippers' council; and the Libreville airport management company
with a private majority shareholder.
6.    Management in the sector should improve, and sector development should be based on a
coherent strategy. Technical ministries (Ministry of Equipment and Construction-MEC, Ministry
of Transport and National Parks-MTTPN, Ministry of Merchant Shipping and Fisheries-MMM")
have thus far failed to promote efficiency, to lower tariffs, and to strive for the optimal allocation
of public resources to the sector. Although the sector is heavily regulated and protected, some
ministries are considering further regulation, without assessing its impact on the economy. High
port, port handling, and road tariffs increase local and impor. prices significantly. Technical
ministries ar;. generally uncoordinated, and technical skills of ministry staff need to be
strengthened. In addition, technical ministries often promote investments which are not based on
econonfic justification and considerations of sustainability. Sector investment plans are often at
odds with one another because of a lack of overall coordination.
7.    Urban Sector Issues. About 73 percent of Gabonese live in urban areas, where a weak
urban management makes life difficult. In Libreville, municipal resources are poorly allocated,
with 90 percent of them going for salaries. As a consequence urban roads are badly maintained,
and the main arteries are congested during rush hours. Liv1ng conditions are harsh in high density
areas and slums, wheie the poor suffer from lack of infrastructure, periodic floods, and soil
erosion. Secondary cities lack basic infrastructure, and existing infrastructure lacks maintenance.
in addition, unemployment is growing in urban areas because of the macroeconomic imbalances,
with an unemployment rate estimated at 18 percent of households' chiefs. Unskilled people and
young qualified people looking for their first job make up the ranks of the unemployed.
8.    Project Objectives. The project would be an integral part of the Government's overalI
strategy following the adjustment of the CFA franc. The project responds to the importance of
the transport sector within the overall economy, emphasized in the Country Assistance Strategy
for Gabon, which is part of the Economic Recovery Loan (Report P-6361-GA dated May 31,
1994). The project objectives are: (a) strengthen the institutional management capacity of the
Borrower's transport and urban sectors; (b) establish a transport sector strategy and an investment
plan, including the promotion of improved sector efficiency, increased competition, reduction of
transport costs, and the decrease in subsidies to public enterprises in the transport sector; (c)
prepare the transport sector restructuring plan, (d) establisL an urban sector development strategy
and an investment plan aimed at improving urban investment planing, urban budgeting,
management of existing infrastructure in Libreville, and urban land tenure system; and (e) execute
an urban infratructure improvement program in Libreville using labor-based methods.
9.    Project Description.  The project will consist of: (a) policy support, institutional
development activities and preparation of investment plans, including: (i) studies to prepare
transport and urban sector strategies and their implementation; (u) workshops to discuss the
studies' recommendations and facititate the decision-making process; (iii) training related to
sudies to strengthen mistries' capacity to manage the sectors; and (iv) focused short-term
technical assistance to provide support to the sector ministries and the project coordinator to



3
manage the sectors' resuturing process, to improve human resources management, to
coordinate training with project activities, and to monitor project execution; (b) execution of a
pilot operation to test the use of labor-based methods in urban civil works; and (c) equipment and
financing of incremental operating costs related to Project management.
10.   Project Iuplementation.   The Ministly of Economy, Planning, Public Sector
Restructuring and Privatization will be responsible for project execution and implementation and
for coordination with the Comnmittee for Public Sector Restructuring. MEC wi}l be responsible
for the road maintenance and construction project activities. MTTPN will be responsible for the
road transport, civil aviation and railway project activities. MMhIP wil be responsible for the
river and matitime sector project activities. The Ministry of Housing, Cadastre and Urban
Planning (MHCU) will be responsible for the urban management project activities. The
Municipality of Libreville will be responsible for the pilot operation.
11.   Project Sustainability.  The project would help devise strategies for sustainable
development of the transport sector. Training and workshops carried out under the project will
increase the sustainability of strategy implementation through improved sector management. The
project will be the first step m preparing further operations that would consist of a sectoral
adjustment operation in the transport sector and investment projects in the transport and urban
sectors.
12.   Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement. The Bank's 1988 Transport Sector
Strategy Note highlighted: (a) inbalances between subsectors that were due, to inadequate
planning and setting of priorities; and (b) overreliance on inefficient public enterprises, which
drain huge resources from the state. Government efforts have failed to remedy these deficiencies.
Bank experience suggests a long-term approach based on a sector strategy and an investment plan
consistent with the strategy.
13.   Two Bank-financed operations are relevant: ,a) a Road Maintenance Project (Ln. 3046-
GA of 1989, US$30 million), 40 percent of it used for technical assistance and training; and (b) a
Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 3114-GA of 1990, US$5 million) aimed at strengthening the
Ministry of Planning dunng the adjustment period. Inportant conditions for the success of a-
technical assistance loan are the competence and the commitment of local staff in charge of
project implementation. Because of a lack of local managerial staff the Gabonese administration
and public enterprise managers rely heavily on expatriates in long-term positions without
preparing their replacement. These two projects did not manage to correct this shortconmng.
Thus, to ensure the internaltion of technical assistance expertise and the sustainability of the
transfer of knowledge, special attention will be given under the proposed project to appointing to
appropriate positions competent local staff to whom the foreign expertise can be transferred.
14.   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The project is consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy which has been prepared in conjunction with the ERL and discussed by the Executive
Directors on June 21, 1994. At the Government's request, the Bank will act as a catalyst through
the proposed project to make sector management more consistent, to help prepare a realistic
public mvestment program, and to ensure better donor coordination in support of this approach.
On the basis of the Government's 1992 policy declaration on public enterprise restructuring, some



4
initial actions have already been taken to prepare for the restructuring of transport public
enterprises, particularly in the port, railway, civil aviation, and shipping companies. These initial
efforts will be pursued and intensified under the project.
15.   Agreed Actions. During negotiations, the Bank and the Government agreed on the
following: (a) project objectives; (b) use of participatory methodologies in preparing sectoral
strategies; (c) list of performance indicators; (d) procurement, disbursement, accounting and
reporting procedures; (e) content of the project and implementation schedule; (f) mid-term review
about one year after project effectiveness, (g) outline of the Implementation Manual; (h) content
of the environmental mitigation plan; (i) organization of training activities and methodology for
preparing training plans; and () project costs and annual budgeting of the local counterpart.
Conditions of effectiveness are: (a) appointment of a coordinator acceptable to the Bank;
(b) opening of two project ac'xunts in commercial banks, where the Government would deposit
the equivalent of US$160,000 and US$170,000, one account to be used to finance studies, the
other to finance ihe pilot operation; (c) opening of two special accounts in commercial banks, into
each of which the Bank would deposit US$250,000; (d) selection of an auditor acceptable to the
Bank; (e) execution of the subsidiary grant agreement with the Libreville Municipality; (f)
recruitment of an accounting firm; (g) preparation of standard bidding documents for goods and
consultants; and (h) adoption of the lIrmplementation Manual, including the Manual of Procedures
for the execution of the pilot operation.
16.   Environmental Aspects. The project will review environmental issues in the transport
and urban sectors. The engineering design of works carried out urider the pilot operation will be
reviewed to ensure their consistency with standards for protection of the environment, in
accordance with the mitigation plan prepared during appraisal. The project will also prepare a
plan of action to improve road safety. It will include training and seminars to sensitize the actors
in the transport and urban sectors to environmental considerations in the design, implementation,
and monitoring of transport and urban projects, plans and policies.
17. Program Objective Categories. Poverty Alleviation. The pilot operation to pave urban
roads using labor-based methods will contribute to the development of employment generation
activities. Private Sector Development. The project will identify the extent to which operations
currently carried out by public enterprises and the administration could be more efficiently carried
out by private operators. The pilot operation will promote the development of local small and
medium-size contractors.
18.   Project Benefits. Benefits expected from the project are: (a) better sector management
through strengthened capacity of local staff, better coordination among ministries, and better
resource allocation through implementation of a rational investment planning process; (b)
acceleration of public enterprise restructuring, leading to increased efficiency and productivity,
and a smaller drain on public finance; and (c) identification of cost-effective ways of improving
employment -creation in the country.
19.   Risks. The main project risk is slow execution, which may be caused by a lack of full
Govermnent commitment and a reluctance by some public enterprises to carry out restructuring
studies. However, tere are important forces in the Government that support preparation and



S
implementation of a coherent sector strategy, and the project will support them while seeking the
concurrence of concerned ministries in the preparation of the proposed new sector strategy.
Overall Government commitment to the strategy will be encouraged through seminars and
training activities organized during the project. The Governments continued commitment,
especially in critical subsectors such as railway, maritime and urban transport, will be assessed at
the time of the project's nid-term review to decide: to continue support to the project through
firther restructuring and preinvestment studies, and to envisage new Bank operations in the
transport and urban sectors; or to cancel project components that failed to make significant
progress, and to continue support to project components. which have been satisfactorily
implemented; or, in a worse case scenario, to cancel the entire project and stop Bank involvem( nt
in the transport and urban sectors.
20.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the articles
of agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 10, 1994



6
Schedule A
Page 1 of I
GABONESE REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Components                               Local   Foreign    Total   Percent of
Cost     Cost      Cost    Base Cost
1. Works                                         0.41      1.20     1.61        24
2. Goods                                         0.00      0.10     0.10         1
3. Consulting Services
(a) Support to the preparation of strategies     0.12      0.62     0.74        11
(b) Institutional Development                    0.23      1.73      1.96       29
(c) Project preparation and support to implementation    0.30  0.88  1.18       18
for transport and urban sectors
(d) Support to the execution of works            0.11      0.16     0.27        4
Subtotal                                         0.76      3.40     4.16        62
4.Training and Seminars                          0.32      0.40     0.72        11
5. Operating Costs                               0.05      0.05     0.10         1
Base Costs                                       1.54      5.15    -6.69        100
Physical Contingencies                           0.13      0.42     0.55
Price Contingencies                              0.74      0.32      1.06
TOTAL                                            2.41  ,   5.89     8.30
Note: Components may not add up to total because of rounding.
Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Sources              Local -         Foreign            Total
IBRD                        0.45              4.71             5.16
Government                  1.72              0.15              1.87
Other Donors                0.24              1.G3              1.27
TOTAL                       2.41              5.89             8.30



7
-       ~~Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
GABONESE REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Procurement Methods
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Components                            ICB    LCO    Other   NBF    Total
1. Works                                     0.00    1.67    0.00    0.49    2.16
(0.00)  (1.27)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.27)
2. Goods                                     0.06    0.06    0.00-   0.00    0.12
(0.06)  (0.06)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.12)
3. Consulting Services
(a) Support to the peparation of strategies  0.00    0.00    0.89    0.00    0.89
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.71)  (0.00)  (0.71)
(b) Institutional Development               0.00    0.00    1.68    0.58    2.26
(0.00)  (0.00)  (1.36)  (0.00)  (1.36)
(c) Project preparation and support to      0.00    0.00    1.12    0.32    1.44
implementation for transport and urban sectors  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.84)  (0.00)  (0.84)
(d) Support to the executionof works        0.00    0.00    0.37    0.00    0.37
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.37)  (0.00)  (0.37)
4. Tramiing and Seminrs                      0.00    0.00    0.92    0.00    0.92
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.46)  (0.00)  (0.46)
5. Operating costs                           0.00    0.00    0.14    0.00    0.14
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.07)  .0.00   (0.07)
TOTAL                                        0.06    1.73    5.22    1.39    8.30
(0.06)  (1.33)  (3.81)  (0.00)  (5.20)
Note: IBRD contribution is in parenthsis. ICB is intentional com ve biddig LCB is local bidding,
and NBF is not-World Bank finaced.



Schedtle B
Page 2 of 2
GABONESE REPUBLW
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENTS
B. Disbtrsemem by Category
(US$ million equivaent)
Category                                        Amount of Loan  Percent of Expen
to be Financed
1. Works                                             1.00                75
2. Goods                                            0.10                100
3. Consuling Seices
(a) Support to the preparation of strategies       0.60                80
(b) Isttuional Development                         1.00                80
(c) Projectpreparationandsupportto                 0.64                80
implementation for transport and urban sectors
(fd) Support to the implementation of Part E       0.16                80
4. Training and Semiinars                            0.40                50
5. Opeating Costs                                   0.05                 50
6. Refunding of PPF                                 0.55
7. Unallocated                                      0.70
TOTAL                                                5.20
C. Estimated Bank Disbursement Schedule
(US$ illion equivalent)
IBRD FiscalY  r
1995         1996         1997
Annual           1.78          2.78         0.64
Cuwulative       1.78          4.56         5.20



9
Schedule C
Page Iol1
GABONESE REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
a) Time taken to prepare:                 14 months
b) Prepared by:                          Government and IBRDO
c) First Preparation Mission:             January 1993
d) Appraisal Mission:                    March 1994
e) Date of Negotiations:                 May 1994
f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:        September 1994
g) List of relevant PCRs/PPARs:          None
C. .
This Memorandum and Recommendation of the President was prepared on the basis of the
appraisal mission consisting of Jean-Noel Guillossou (Task- Manager, Transport Economist,
AFIIN); Jean-Luc Aka-Adjo (Financial Analyst, AF11N); Emmanuel Joussellin (Research
Assistant, AF1IN); Jean-Claude Vichet (Urban Transport Specialist, AFTES); Karim-
Jacques Budin (Railway Specialist, TWUTD); Michel Audige (Port Specialist, AFTES);
Jean-Paul Desgranges (Civil Aviation Specialist, TWUTD); Ann Castle (Public Enterprise
Restructuring Specialist, PSD); and Patrick Canel (Municipal Finance Specialist, AF31N).
Mr. Snorri Hallgrimsson (AFTES) is Lead Advisor. Mr. Jacques L. Cellier (LAI IN) is Peer
Reviewer. Mr. Alberto Hart (AFIIN) is the Division Chief. Mr. Olivier Lafourcade (AFI)
is the Departnent Director.



10
Schedule D
Page 1 of 3
GABONESE REPUBLIC
TRAN SPORT SECTOR TECHNCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GABON
Summary Statement of Loans and IDA Credits
(as of December 31, 1993)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellation)
Loan or          Fiscal  Borrower   Purpose                    Bank      IDA    Undis-   Closing Date
Credit No.       Year                                                            bursed
Loans
7 Loans closed                                                  117.00
L30460-GAB    1989   GABON          Road Maintainance            30.00            2.42  12/31/94 (R)
L31140-GAB    1990   GABON          Tech. Assistance              5.00            0.23   12131/93 (R)
L35060-GAB    1993   GABON          Foresty/Environment         22.5Q            22.1   06i30/98
TOTAL                                                             57.50            24.82
TOTAL *                    174.50
of which repaid             71.98
TOTAL held by Bank         102.52
& IDA
Amount sold                 29.24
of which repaid             29.24
List of Closed SALs and Secals
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellation)
Loan or          Fiscal  Bc'rrower   Purpose                    Bank      IDA    Undis-   Closing Date
Credit No.       Year                                                             bursed
L29330-GAB       1988   GABON         SAL I                     50.00                0.00  06130/90 (R)
* Total approved, repayments, and outstanding balance represent both active and inactive loans and credits.
(R) indicates formally revised Closing Date.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical values, all others are market values.
T'he signing, effective, and closing dates are based on the Loan Department official data and are not taken from the Task Budget
file.



if
Schedule D
Page 2 of 3
Status of Baink Portfolio
There is no major issue in the portfolio. The fiscal 1994 portfolio consists of two ongoing
pioJects. One, the Road Maintenance Project, is expected to be closed in December 1994; the
second, the Forestry and Environment Project, became effective in September 1993. The
situation of the projects is the following:
(a)   Road Maintenance Project: An action plan was prepared by the Government and
approved by the Bank, which justified extending the closing date by one year until
December 1994.
(b)   Forestry and Environment Project: The project is just starting. Overall project
status is satisfactory. Preliminary studies and training of key personnel have
begun. A work program for fiscal 1994 for each project component has been
prepared by the Govemment and approved by the Bank.



12
Schedule D
Page 3 of 3
GABONESE REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GABON
Summary of IFC Investments
(as of December 31, 1993)
Original Gross Commitments
US$ million
Fiscal Year    Obligor        Type of Business                      Loan       Equity   Total
1988          SPE            Okoume Veneer                                4.2               4.2a
1988          Comilog         Mining                                     32.0             32 .0b
1989          Shell Gabon     Petroleum                                 160.0             160.0O
1989          Elf Gabon       Petroleum                                  10.0              10.0
1991          Comilog II      Mining                                      9.0               9.0
Total gross commitments                   215.2             215.2
Less repayments and cancellations         174.6            174.6'
Net commitments held by IFC                40.6              40.6
a Fully cancelled.
b US$5 million cancelled.
c Includes a US$110 million participation.
d Includes the sale of US$11 0 million participation



GABONESE REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
SECTION A: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
I. Country Background
A. Backgound and Economic Developments
1.    Gabon is sparsely populated with an estimated population of just over one million,
(growing at 2.4 percent a year) in an area of 267,000 square kilometers. It is rich in natural
resources (oil, manganese, uranium, and forests) and enjoys one of the highest levels of per
capita GDP in Sub-Saharan Africa, an estinmated US$3,600 post-devaluation. It has an educated
workforce and a developing basic infrastructure.
2.    The economy is dominated by the oil sector, which accounts for one-third of GDP, close
to half of Government revenue, over half of gross investment, and over three-quarters of
merchandise exports. Consequently, fluctuations in the oil sector impact on the rest of the
economy. This dependency on oil is amplified by the Government's over-indebtedness and by
the country's lack of competitiveness (a consequence of high labor costs following the
investment booms of the mid-1970s and early 1980s).
3.    Since 1986, when the price of crude oil fell 50 percent, Gabon has suffered
macroeconomic and financial difficulties. The contraction in Government revenue led to a
massive reduction in public investment and an ensuing contraction of non-oil GDP as well. Real
non-oil GDP growth has been negative, averaging -1.1 percent a year from 1985 to 1993.
Employment in the formal sector has been hit hard by the economic downturn. In 1992,
permanent salaried employment in the modem sector was 26 percent below its 1985 level. The
severe contraction of employment in the modem sector as a whole hides an even deeper
reduction of employment in the private and public segments of this sector of 41 percent, partly
compensated by an 11 percent expansion of employment in the civil service.
4.    Despite an increase in the volume of crude oil production in 1989 when Rabi oil field
came on-stm, geneating additional revenue and allowing a reduction in the budget deficit, the
Government had litfle room to maneuver to stabilize the economy because of heavy internal and
extemal debt servicing requirements. External arrears reached US$1.1 billion (CFAF 316 billion
at the pre-devaluation rate) and domestic arrears US$0.8 billion (CFAF 250 billion) at the end of
1993. Public and publicly guaranteed external debt outstanding at the end of 1993 amounted to
US$3.3 billion, or 92 percent of projected 1994 GDP.
5.    This situation makes it impossible for the state to continue in its traditional role of
locomotive of the Gabonese economy through its public investment program. A fundamental



14
change of strategy is needed. As the new policy adopted following the devaluation of the
regional monetary unit, the CFA franc, demonstrates, the Government has embarked on a change
of direction and is laying the foundations of a strategy based on a redefinition of the roles of the
state and the private sector in the economy. This redefinition implies: (a) the disengagement of
the state from direct intervention in productive sectors: (h) a strengthening of its responsibilities
as the provider of public goods and of an institutional tramework conducive to the development
of efficient markets. and (c) a greater role for competition and market mechanisms as the main
regulators of economic activity. This strategy requires restoring competitiveness. and thie
devaluation gets this process off to a good start. Accompanying measures and structural reforms
are needed to ensure that the adjustment of the nominal exchange rate translates into a real
depreciation of -he exchange rate, and to eliminate the excess costs of predevaluation
protectionist trade policy.
B.   Devaluation and the Government's Economic and Social Program
6.    On January 12, 1994, Gabon, and the other African members of the franc zone devalued
their currency, from CFAF 50 to the French franc to CFAF 100 to the French franc. Following
the devaluation, Gabon requested the assistance of the IMF and the Bank. The Government
signed a Letter of Intent outlining its program for a 12-month period, and an IMF stand-by
arrangement was approved on March 30, 1994.
7.    The objective of the program is to preserve the gains in competitiveness resulting from
the devaluation by implementing a coherent set of accompanying measures.  The key
accompanying measures have been designed to help contain increases in costs by: (a) capping
increases in public sector wage costs at 10 percent and giving appropriate signals to social
partners to guide wage negotiations in the private sector; (b) reducing indirect taxes on petroleum
products sold domestically to maintain the pump price unchanged until a new system of indirect
taxation based on value added taxes is put in place in March 1995; (c) reducing average customs
duties and simplifying the tariff structure; and (d) administering prices for a limited period of
time on a short list of sensitive products.
8.    The program is expected to generate non-oil GDP growth of 3.5 percent a year over the
medium term following a 3.4 percent contraction in 1994, and to eliminate all external arrears
over the 12-month period covered by the IMF stand-by. To ensure sustainability, the financial
position of the Goveirnent has to be restored. Budgetary measures included in the program,
which is supported by the Bank and the IMF, are expected to generate a moderate increase in the
primary surplus (excludes interest payments) of the central Government in 1994, followed by a
further significant improvement in 1995 due to an anticipated recovery of the price of crude oil
on world markets. The programmed primary surplus would increase from 0.6 percent of non-oil
GDP in 1993 to 4.3 percent in 1994 and 14 percent in 1995 and 1996. Residual borrowing
requirements for 1994, after debt relief under the Paris Club and the London Club arrangements,
are estimated at CFAF 184 billion (US$305 million). In the next three years, the budgetary
surpluses are expected to be sufficient to reimburse any short-term loans that may be negotiated
to cover the residual 1994 financing requirements.



Is
C.   The Bank's Assistance Strategy
9.    The Government has expressed its readiness to implement longer-term structural reforms
to promote efficient markets regulated by competition rather than intervention and to introduce
social measures to shield the most vulnerable groups froin some of the harsher effects of the
adjustment policy. The development strategy based on the redefinition of the role of the state
and the restoration of competitiveness requires reforms: (a) to strengthen competition; (b) to
improve the efficiency of the key energy and transportation sectors: (c) to disengage the state
from productive activities (through privatization and restructuring of public enterprises); and (d)
to strengthen the Government's capacity to install and maintain an efficient regulatory
framework.
10.   These reforms still need to be given concrete forn, and an Economic Recovery Loan,
presented to the Board in June 1994, will support their impllementation. Ongoing economic and
sector work, including the preparation of an economic men orandum, and agricultural, transport,
and urban sector strategies, would articulate the need for further structural reforms, which might
be supported by sectoral adjustment operations.
11.   At US$102 million, Bank exposure in Gabon is moderate. Rigorous implementation of
the initial phases of the adjustment program following the devaluation, by demonstrating
Government commitment, would justify Pn expansion of Bank lending in Gabon. Priority
sectors for Bank intervention are: (a) transportation, because of its importance in a market
economy; (b) agriculture, because of the large number of low-income hous&holds drawing a
livelihood from agriculture and because of the potential for expansion in this sector generated by
the devaluation; (c) human reseurces development, because it is essential to the Bank objective
of long-term poverty reduction; and (d) urban infrastructure, because of the needs resulting from
large-scale urban irmnigration.
11. Transport Sector Issues and Priorities
A. Sector Institutions
12.   Policies and investment plans prepared for the transport sector are often at odds since
there is little coordination between the Ministry of Economy, Planning, Public Sector
Restructuring and Privatization (MEPRSPP) and the technical ministries (Ministry of Equipment
and Construction-MEC, Ministry of Transport, Tourism and National Parks-MTTPN, and
Ministry of Merchant Shipping and Fisheries-MMMP). In addition, investments envisaged by
technical ministries often compete uneconomically. Every year, MEPRSPP defines the sector
policy and prepares the investment plan for the following three years. Technical ministries are
reluctant to limit their investment plans to the resources available according to macroeconomic
constraints. Their priorities often differ from those established by MEPRSPP, and they
sometimes execute investments that have not been agreed on by MEPRSPP. For example, MEC



16
is preparing the extension of the Franceville airport, although the Loi Programme envisages
rehabilitation of other airports, but not Franceville. For its part, the Loi Programme does not take
into account the competition between the road paving program being implemented by MEC, and
the airport rehabilitation program. Meanwhile, MTTPN envisages an airport rehabilitation
program much more expansive than that of the Loi Programme.
13.    Technical ministries manage the sector administratively, but do little to promote sector
performance and efficiency. The sector is heavily regulated (as described below), especially in
the maritime and road sectors. There is little competition. Official transport tariffs are
established, but they are not based on actual costs. The result is a small number of overprotected
operators providing expensive services. Despite numerous barriers, informal operators are
gradually moving into the sector, a reaction to unsatisfactory conditions and management in the
sector.
B. Impact of the Transport Sector on Public Finance
14.    In 1992, Government revenues from  road transport activities exceeded the losses of
tasport sector public enterprises (Table 1).  The road subsector generated profits of about
CFAF 22 billion (equivalent to 6.7 percent of total Governmnent revenues), despite the shortfall in
maintenance including routine maintenance, periodic maintenance and rehabilitation, estimated
at CFAF 6.4 billion, which is not financed under the budget. Public enterprises in the sector
generated total losses of about CFAF 18 billion (equivalent to 5.2 percent of total Government
expenditures). Subsidies received by the public enterprises exceeded taxes by CFAF 1.4 billion.
Table 1: Overall Financial Performance of the Transport Sector, 1992
(CFAF billion)
Transport Sector Public Enterprises
ADL    Air  SNAT  SONA- CNI   OCTRA  OPRAG  CGC  Subtotal  Roads  Total
Gabon         TRAM
Total Revenues      3.9   42.2   5.4    2.2    0.9    33.3      7.7    1.1   96.7    37.1   133.8
Total Expenditwes   4.0   43.6   5.7    4.9    1.0    46.5      7.7    0.9   114.3    8.7   123.0
NetProfit(Loss)     (0.1)  (1.4)  (0.3)   (2.7)   0.1   (13.2)    0,0    0.2   (17.6)   28.4   10.8
Shortfall of                                                                           6.4    6.4
Maintenance                                                                            22.0    4.4
Net Profit (Loss)
Corporate Taxes     0.04    0.28  025    0.03    0.03   0.13    0.04   0.00   0.80
Opeating Subsidies  0.00    0.00  0.00 -  0.00    0.18   2.00    0.00   0.00   2.18
Subtotal            0.04    0.28  0.25   0.03   (0.15)  (1.87)   0.04   0.00   (1.38)
Numbers in parenthesis are negative.



17
15.    The drain of public enterprises on public finance is enormous:
(a)    Overall debts of the public enterprises to the state exceed state arrears by about
CFAF 3.2 billion. The largest -debtor is OCTRA, the railway company, which
owes the state CFAF 9 billion. The Government, for its part, owes Air Gabon
CFAF 6.4 billion, mainly for civil service travel in excess of contracted amounts.
(b)    Arrears of transport sector public enterprises to other state enterprises outside the
sector and to institutional creditors amount to CFAF 7.8 billion, most of it due to
the social security system.
(c)    State subsidies for investment and equipment, as well as for operating subsidies,
have totaled about CFAF 400 billion during the past ten years, accounting for 40
percent of the public investment in the transport sector and 20 percent of overall
public investment.
16.    After devaluation, the overall deficit of transport sector public enterprises is estimated at
CFAF 59 billion, assuming that tariffs remain constant, OCTRA's responsibility being for 80
percent of it. To balance revenues and expenditures in the sector, tariffs would need to be
increased 30 to 40 percent for most of the enterprises, and as much as 140 percent for the
National Shipping Line (SONATRAM) and OCTRA (Table 2). An increase of that magnitude
would seriously hamper the competitiveness of local export products such as logs and timber and
manganese, which are transported by rail or via the national shipping line. Although actions
should be taken in all public enterprises to reduce their operating costs and the need for tariff
increase, changes are needed most urgently in the maritime and railway subsectors, to overcome
the huge deficits that cannot be covered by tariff increases.
Table 2: Overall Financial Performance of the Transport Sector Public Enterprises after
Devaluation
(CFAF billion)
Transport Sector Public Enterprises
AD    Air  SNAT   SONA- CNI  OCTRA  OPRAG   COC  Total
L    Gabon         TRAM
Total Revenues           3.0  68.3   5.5    8 4    1.0   33.3 . 8.5    1.6  124.6
Total Expenditures       3.8  70.7   7.5    8.l   12    80.3    10.8   1.2   183.6
Net Profit (Losses)     (0.8)  (2.4)   (2.0)  (4.7)  (0.2)  (47.0)   (2.3)   0.4  (59.0)
Tariff Increase Necessary to
Balance Revenues and     28    35     37    13g    29    141        28     0
Expenditures (/)



18
C. Railways
17.   The railway sector needs to be restructured, and the involvement of private actors in
railway operations should be encouraged. Since it started operations in 1982, OCTRA has
accumulated CFAF 148 billion in deficits on its books. Operating subsidies totaled CFAF 19
billion between 1987 and 1991, and state allocations for equity and investment subsidies amount
to about CFAF 700 billion. Several attempts have failed to reform the institutional framework, to
improve the company's management, and reduce the drain on public finance.
18.   The crux of the problem for OCTRA is its lack of autonomy. State involvement in
decision making has created management instability and has resulted in weak administrative
management instead of efficient commercial management. OCTRA also suffers from a history
of poor investment policy decisions (non standardized equipment; inadequate maintenance
installations, telecommunications, and signaling equipment; excess stock of some types of
rolling equipment). The state's decision not to involve OCTRA in contractual negotiations with
COMILOG, the mining company, has contributed to OCTRA's financial deterioration.
COMILOG operates its own equipment to transport 1.3 million tons of manganese, along
OCTRA 's rails. OCTRA claims that the toll COMILOG pays for using the railway
infrastructure does not cover OCTRA's costs. The toll amount was negotiated directly between
COMILOG and the state without input from OCTRA.
19.   To increase the autonomy of railway operations, private management should be
introduced. Although several alternatives might be considered for achieving this objective, the
recommended alternative would be to:
(a)   transform OCTRA into a holding company, which would be the principal owner
of the rolling equipment and infrastructure assets;
(b)   create a private company involving COMILOG, the forestry companies, and
financial investors to manage and maintain the railway infrastructure, and operate
freight transport services; and
(c)   create a separate company to operate passenger services, which would subcontract
traction of trains to the freight company.
To be successful, financial and employment restructuring would need to be carried out along
with the management reforms.
20. A second alternative would be to separate mining transport from other freight transport,
and then- to select the major- shareholder of the freight transport company through international
competitive bidding. Alternatives (such as a management contract with a private operator) that
would not ensure full autonomy of management, full commitment of the operator, and resolution
of the problem of the relationship with COMILOG should be discarded. (An analysis of the
various altematives and of the implementation arrangements of the recommended alternative is
available in the project files.)



'9
21.   During a transition period and as a first step in restructuring OCTRA, the Government is
considering the establishment of a department within OCTRA to manage log and timber
transport, which accounts for about 70 percent of rail transport excluding manganese. The new
department would receive technical asssi.tance from private forestry companies, collect its own
revenues, have separate accounts, and pay a fee to OCTRA for leasing the equipment and using
the railway track. The forestry companies would provide the funds for rehdbilitating equipment
in need of major overhaul. Although this proposal does not address all the problems of rail
transport, it would be a positive step. It would bestow the Government's political blessing on
restructuring, following several years of reluctance, and would demonstate the feasibility of
private management and the benefits to be expected from such involvement. It would also set
the stage for extending the experiment to the entire railway company.
D. Maritime Transport
22.   SONATRAM, the Shipping Line. The national shipping line has been bankrupt for
several years. Suggested alternative arrangements for the future of maritime transport in Gabon
include these:
(a)   SONATRAM could establish a joint-venture with a foreign partner. To increase
competition, only foreign companies that are not already heavily involved in the
Gabonese maritime market, should be considered. Right now, the major foreign
company in maritime transport in Glabon is a shareholder in SONATRAM and has
a voice in managing the company, an unsatisfactory anangement that creates
conflicts of interest between the two companies and a situation of quasi-monopoly
that benefits the foreign firm. The recently signed partnership agreement between
the two companies is not expected to improve SONATRAM's financial situation
in any lasting way, but would merely allow SONATRAM to survive a little longer
because of the increase in equity included in the agrement. The agreement says
nothing about increasing efficiency, decreasing costs, or taking other measures to
save the company. In contrast, the joint-venture proposed here would prepare the
company to operate in a more competitive environment in the future.
(b)   As long as the UNCTAD Code of Conduct, which distributes traffic between the
national company, shipping lines of partner countries, and outsiders, is applied,
SONATRAM could cease to be a maritime transport operator and instead could
collect traffic rights for the sale of its share of traffic to other operators. As a
consequence of such a decision, SONATRAM would have to reduce its size
significantly, sell its two ships, and stop chartering ships. The level of traffic
rights would have to be reduced substantially as well.



20
(c)   Private local companies could be allowed to operate in Gabon on the 40 percent
share of maritime transport allowed under the UNCTAD Code of Conduct. This
alternative could help local maritime operators prepare for a future, more
competitive environment.
23.   The 1992 by-law instituted to reinforce the application of the Code of Conduct in Gabon,
is not expected to help SONATRAM become an efficient maritime operator any more than is the
recent partners' agreement signed with SONATRAM's foreign partner. The revenues generated
under the by-law would automatically accrue to SONATRAM. Such a subsidy is uneconomical
and unjustified in view of the company's past poor performance. According to the by-law, when
SONATRAM is unable to transport freight, SONATRAM and other shipping lines will
negotiate an agreement for the retrocession of traffic rights on lines operated by SONATRAM.
This arrangement represents a clear case of conflict of interest between SONATRAM and its
forei3n partner and also distorts competition a:nong maritime operators. Official tariffs, from
which SONATRAM collects 40 percent, are applied for the retrocession on lines not operated by
SONATRAM.
24.   SNAT, the Stevedoring Company. The stevedoring company is protected by a dipole
shared with a private foreign firm--the major stevedore in Gabon, and a shareholder and partner
of the national shipping line--and by high tariffs that are not based on actual costs of operations.
SNAT is also a road transport operator and applies official tariffs at about ten times costs.
Tariffs are so high that port handling and transport within Gabon are as expensive as maritime
transport between Gabon and Europe.
25.   Several alternatives may be considered for increasing competition and decreasing costs:
(a)   SNAT could be privatized. The Government is currently considering !.Ls option,
although it has not yet determined the distribution of equity between the state and
the private operator. The proposed majority shareholder would be the company
that is now the second stevedore in Gabon, an arrangement that would maintain
the dipole in the stevedoring market. Another recommended option would be to
create a joint venture with a minor stevedore, to increase competition.
(b)   SNAT and SONATRAM could be joined into a single entity, an option only if
SONATRAM continues as a maritime operator.
(c)   The sector could be liberalized, a move that would help develop a local
stevedoring industry.
26.   CGC, the Shippers' Council. The role of the shippers' council should be reconsidered.
The council generates costs without providing commensurate services for the Gabonese
economy. Currently, it negotiates freight rates with shipping lines and distributes freight
according to the 40/40/20 rule implemented under the UNCTAD Code of Conduct. Several
decrees in 1992.strengthened CGC's role and specified tariffs collected by CGC. Those revenues
amounted to about CFAF 1.1 billion in 1991.



21
27.   The only uaeful function of a shippers' council is to assist small shippers' to negotiate
freight rates with shipping lines. Except for bulk products and logs and timber, most shippers'
are scattered and would not be -able to negotiate discounted rates for small quantities on their
own. But if small shippers' consider such a council to be of value to thet, they should be
allowed to create their own organization for that purpose.
E. Ports
28.   OPRAG, the national port authority, is more an adnministrative than a commercial entity.
Its role should be to promote efficiency and responsive performance in port activities. OPRAG
manages the deep-sea ports of Owendo, some 25 km from Libreville, and Port-Gentil, and two
secondary ports in Libreville and Port-Gentil that are used for coastal transport. Port handling is
carried out by two firms, one private and one semipublic. Although OPRAG revenues are higher
than other ports along the African coast, its performance is not better. Both deep-sea ports are
unsatisfactorily maintained, with required rehabilitation works estimated at CFAF 2 billion.
OPRAG's management information system is weak. It has no analytical accounting, and its
statistical information is poor and cannot be used to monitor efficiency and productivity. Tariffs
are not based on actual costs.
29.   Broad-based reform is required to improve port management and performance, to reduce
costs, and to obtain reasonable productivity from the resources invested in the port and the
revenues collected by OPRAG. Some options to consider:
(a)   Clarification of relationships between the port authority and the state, to define the
responsibilities for the ownership of assets, investment decision, and debt
servicing.
(b)   Greater involvement of private operators in port activities. Operations that are still
being carried out by the port should instead be contracted out. Thus, for example,
dredging activities that are contracted out to a private operator, should not revert
to the port authority, as presently envisaged.
(c)   More autonomous and accountable port management. Separating the management
of the deep-sea and secondary ports would help achieve autonomy and
accountability through greater transparency, elimination of cross-subsidies, and
introduction of consistency between investments and level of activity.
F. Civil Aviation
30.   Relationships between the national airline and the state need to be redefined. Because of
the state's involvement in the management of the company, Air Gabon lacks autonomy in its
investnent decisions. The company was forced to buy a Fokker 100 which is inappropriate for
regional transport, and so decided to lease (and then buy) a Boeing 727, which is more suited for



22
regional transport and less expensive to operate. But the company now has to depreciate two
planes, instead of one, causing its financial situation to deteriorate. In 1991 the company decided
to sell a cargo plane that had proved unprofitable, but the state refused to let the plane go even
though the sales agreement had been signed. The plane has remained unused in the airport
parking area since then, and Air Gabon had to pay a penalty for reneging its contract. Air Gabon
has operated two Fokker 28 owned by the state but has stopped paying the lease because of
Govenmment arrears to the company.
31.   The responsibility for contracting the servicing of secondary airports to a small local
company and for financing the contract is unclear. Air Gabon received a subsidy of CFAF 350
million for public service obligations in 1989, 1990, and 1991. No subsidy has been allocated
since then, and the state has questioned the contract between Air Gabon and the airport servicing
company.
32.   Air Gabon benefits from a captive market. Each year, the Government signs a sole-
source contract with Air Gabon for civil servants' air travel, ensuring a minimum level of
passen,er travel without competition.  However, a major cause of Air Gabon's inancial
difficulties is air travel by civil servants beyond the contracted levels and without additional
payments from the Government.
33.   Although financial results in 1991 showed an improvement, the situation remains fragile.
The CFAF devaluation increases expenditures in foreign currency, and the depreciation of assets
should increase allowances to include the Boeing 727 and the two ATR72 which would replace
the F28. On the other hand, revenues are not likely to increase at the same pace. State arrears
will continue to increase if the state continues to withhold the subsidy for public service of
secondary airports.
G. Road Infrastructure
34.   Road maintenance and construction have been a priority of the Government only since
1991. Between 1980 and 1990, roads received only 10 percent of overall public investment,
compared with 36 percent for the railway. Of a road network of 7,800 km, only 460 km (6
percent) were paved. Earth roads were in poor condition and almost unpassable during the rainy
season. Road traffic volumes were low, and air, rail, and coastal transport developed instead.
35.   Road Maintenance. In 1990, the Govermnent began to implement a Road Maintenance
Project financed by the World Bank and the African Development Bank. Priority was given to
rehabilitation of main links and to re-establishing routine and periodic maintenance capacity.
Rehabilitation works, amounting to slightly more than half of the planned expenditures for the
three-year project, were all carried out under contract. Routine and periodic maintenance was
done through the Government's force account organization. It was orig nally planned that all
maintenance works carried out after completion of the project, would be the responsibility of the
force account organization.



23
36.   The contracted rehabilitation work progressed satisfactorily.  Maintenance works by
contract covered 464 km of paved road and 1,137 km of gravel roads. Regravelling covered
another 447 km, and spot repairs of asphalt surfaces 45 km. Sixteen major bridges were also
repaired. Maintenance works met 88 percent of the target road length on paved roads and 67
percent on paved roads, while bridge repairs exceeded targets by 10 percent.
37.   The Covernment's force account maintenance capability has improved remarkably. Work
planning is good, and execution is also good in most cases. Strict supervision has reduced misuse
of equipment and supplies, and continuous monitoring permits quick adjustments in work
programs Works got off to a slow start in 1991, but in 1993 total work output slightly exceeded
planned output. There are, however, variations in output rate between 65 percent and 130
percent for individual work items, indicating a combination of uncertainty in planning and some
unsuitability of work methods and management. Despite this real progress, it is clear that no
force account organization could match the efficiency of contracting out most types of
maintenance works. Force account operations should concentrate on routine maintenance and
some periodic maintenance, leaving the remaining periodic maintenance and all rehabilitation
works to be carried out under contract.
38.   A five-year rolling program of maintenance works will be established through the ongoing
Road Maintenance Project. A Road Fund is envisaged to stabilize maintenance funding. The
fund will be fuly or partially financed through road user fees and its use restricted to programmed
road, maintenance works. Initially, the maintenance program would provide routine and periodic
maintenance of 5,600 km of priority roads. The annual cost of this program would be about
CFAF 16 billion initially, including routine and periodic maintenance of the priority network, and
rehabilitation of 3,000 km of earth roads and 455 km of paved roads.
39.   Road Upgrading.  In 1993, the Goverrnent decided to launch a road upgrading
program, which would continue the upgrading effort begun under the Road Maintenance Project.
Some 1,800 km of main roads would be upgraded from laterite surface to bituminous surface
standards, with substantially improved drainage. The program will cost from CFAF 170 million
to 250 million per km depending on the structure of the road. Completing the work within seven
years as planned by the Government would require a minimum of CFAF 44 billion a year, which,
when added to the budget requirements for road maintenance, would largely exceed the financing
capacity of CFAF 40 billion per year (CFAF 30 billion before devaluation) estimated by the
Ministry of Planning, a capacity that itself depends on the willingness of financing agencies to
commit funds to road infrastructure works. The rolling program of maintenance activities would
include the change in standards of the road sections upgraded under the program. The upgrading
program makes the introduction of measures to stabilize the flow of funds for routine and periodic
maintenance even more urgent. An assessment of the environmental effects of the upgrading
program would also be carried out under the Road Maintenance Project.



24
H. Road Transport
40.   Road Transport Taxation. The transport industry has-been heavily taxed, but measures
taken following the devaluation should relieve the tax burden.  These measures inrclude
stabilization of the price of petroleum products at the predevaluation price and a lowering of
import duties under the newly implemented fiscal system of the Central Africa Customs and
Economic Union (UDEAC). Before devaluation, taxes ard duties accounted for 50 to 60 percent
of vehicle operating costs. excluding taxes on revenues. Total state revenues from the sector,
which amounted to CFAF 37 billion in 1992, should decrease by_CFAF 10 billion in 1994 under
the tax system implemented temporarily after devaluation. Taxes on petroleum products would
account for 44 percent and customs duties for 39 percent of state revenue from the sector.
41.   Interurban Transport. Until 1990, the poor condition of the interurban road network
kept interurban transport underdeveloped. Since then traffic has increased significantly, although
remaining low in absolute terms. Official tariffs for urban transport of goods between the ports
and the cities of Libreville and Port Gentil are above actual costs in most cases. Official tariffs
for transporting cement range from CFAF 300 per ton per kilometer between the port of Owendo
and Libreville to CFAF 53 per ton per kilometer on an interurban road. Official tariffs peak at
CFAF 400 per ton per kilometer for goods of frequent consumption and CFAF 564 for rebars
and corrugated iron. Informal operators propose a tariff of CFAF 40 per ton per kilometer.
Although most of the regulation in the sector, such as regulation related to transport zones,
remains unapplied, official tariffs are used as a reference price, resulting in generally high tariffs.
As a consequence, informal operators tend to develop for the transport of low-value goods that
cannot afford high transport costs. Informal transport operators rely on old trucks in poor
condition and do not pay all road transport taxes.
42.   Urban Transport. The strategy in urban transport should aim to increase competition
among existing private operators, to promote the introduction of larger buses, and to improve
coordination among institutions involved in urban transport. The Government's plan for a new
urban transport company in Libreville should be abandoned. Although initially the project was
to be privately funded and managed, the Government is now considering creating a semipublic
company, with monopolies on several bus routes and tax exemptions. Three unsuccessful
experiences with public transport in Gabon suggest scrapping the project in favor of continuing
use of private operators, which are efficient, able to adjust to changes in demand, and pay taxes.
43.   The issue of student transport in Libreville requires special attention. This free public
service is provided by the state-owned "Regie des transports scolaires," which operates as an
administrative department and uses the buses of the former public bus company. This public
service is unsustainable. The annual subsidy required is a heavy drain on the public finance,
while the buses used are not maintained and the bus fleet is rapidly disappearing.
44.   Measures are also needed to improve traffic conditions in Libreville. These measures
include implementation of a traffic plan, improved traffic management, creation of new parking
areas, and road maintenance.



25
I. Transport Sector Priorities
45. - Although all transport subsectors require actions to-improve their performance, the
following deserve prioritY:
e  Restructure the railway company. The plan that is ultimately selected for restructuring
the company should involve private partners and must be sustainable (see paras. 19-21).
The company is the single largest drain on state resources in the transport sector. It lacks
autonomy, efficiency, and accountability. Inadequate maintenance of equipment and
infrastructure threatens a loss of assets and futurc costly rehabilitation works. The
transport of manganese is subsidized through uneconomically low tariffs. The company
received technical assistance over several years to improve its operations and
management, but many recommnendations were not implemented and improvements that
were introduced were abandoned once the foreign experts left.
a  Increase competition in the maritime sector. Increasing competition should reduce the
high overall costs in the maritime transport chain, which hamper the competitiveness of
exports and significantly increase the prices of imports. Official port and transit tariffs are
not based on actual costs. There are only a few operators, private and parastatal, at each
step of the transport chain, creating quasi-oligopoly conditions. The recent partnership
agreement between SONATRAM, the national shipping line which has been bankrupt for
several years, and a foreign shipping line is not expected to improve the company's
performance, while creating a situation of conflict of interest between the two shipping
lines. Although protected by the UNCTAD's Code of Conduct, SONATRAM has been
unable to perform satisfactorily or to make itself financially viable. The negative impact
on the economy of operating a bankrupt shipping line is aggravated by the cost of
protecting SONATRAM. The shippers' council, CGC, which monitors the application of
the Code, collected about CFAF I billion in 1992 without actually creating any value
added in the national economy. Alternatives for increasing competition in the maritime
sector are presented in paras. 22 and 25.
* Sustain road maintenance. Sufficient resources should be allocated to road maintenance
to sustain efforts carried out since 1991 to improve maintenance and to protect future
investments. The Government has given a high priority to road infrastructure since 1991
and has maintained this priority in its 1993-95 program of public investment. Results
have been impressive. During this period, the focus was on rehabilitation and earth roads
because of the poor condition of the road network, and on the preparation of a program to
pave 1,800 km of roads. The proposed program should be designed carefully, taking local
technical and financial capacity into account to avoid jeopardizing investments. already
made in maintenance and to prevent costly future rehabilitation works in the future. Road
works should not come at the expense of resources needed for maintenance.



26
111. Urban Sector Issues and Piorities
A. Sector Issues
46.   About 73 percent of Gabonese live in urban areas, where a weak urban management
makes life difficult. In Libreville, municipal resources are poorly allocated, with 90 percent of
them going for salaries. As a consequence, urban roads are badly maintained, and the main
arteries are congested during rush hours. Living conditions are harsh in high density areas and
slums, where the poor suffer from lack of infrastructure, periodic floods, and soil erosion.
'Secondary cities lack basic infrastructure, and existing infrastructure lacks maintenance. In
addition, unemployment is growing in urban aeas because of the macroeconomic imbalances,
with an unemployment rate estimated at 18 percent of households' chiefs. Unskilled people and
young qualified people looking for their first job make up the ranks of the unemployed.
B. Sector Priorities
47.   Better urban management and better coordination between institutions could result in
substantial improvements in urban conditions.  More of the resources collected by the
Municipality of Libreville should be allocated to urban management, a change that should occur
before any broadening of the resource base or any increase in tax rates. The promotion of local
small- and medium-size enterprises and of labor-based methods for executing civil works in
urban areas would help to address rising problems of infrastructure maintenance and
unemployment.
IV. Detailed Project Description
A. Objectives
48.   The project would be an integral part of the Government's overall strategy following the
adjustment of the CFA franc. The project responds to the importance of the transport sector
within the overall economy, emphasized in the Country Assistance Strategy for Gabon,. The
project objectives are: (a) strengthen the institutional management capacity of the Borrower's
transport and urban sectors; (b) establish a transport sector strategy and an investment plan,
including the promotion of improved sector efficiency, increased competition, reduction of
transport costs, and the decrease in subsidies to public enterprises in the transport sector; (c)
prepare the transport sector restructuring plan; (d) establish an urban sector development strategy
and an investment plan aimed at improving urban investment planning, urban budgeting,
management of existing infrastructure in Libreville, and the urban land tenure system; and (e)
execute an urban infrastructure improvement program in Libreville using labor-based methods.



2-7
49.   In addition to supporting the Government's macroeconomic policies, the project would
aim to strengthen management capacity in the sectors by encouraging wide participation of
Govermment, public sector entities, the private sector, and the international donor community in
setting the sectoral strategies, and by providing institutional and technical support on decision--
making to sectoral authorities, as requested, through seminars and targeted studies. The overall
objectives of the project and the methods for strengthening sectoral management were agreed
during negotiations. Key project activities and timing targets are provided in Schedule 1.
B. Setting Sector Strategies
50.   Sector strategies would be set during a series of seminars:
(a)   At the beginning of the project, the seminars would combine brainstorming and
training. Recognized national and international authorities would be called on to
participate. After an initial diagnostic phase of comparing sector management in
Gabon with developments in this field worldwide, the seminars would move to a
discussion of how the sector operates in Gabon. The outcome would be a set of
recommendations that should either reinforce the activities proposed in the project
or lead to their reorientation.
(b)   During project implementation, seminars would discuss the recommendations of
specific studies under the project and the steps to be taken, the status of the
project and the directions in which it should be moving, and preparation of
sectoral strategies to be incorporated in a Government declaration of policy for the
transport and urban sectors at the end of the project.
C. Support to the Transport Sector
51.   Institutional Support. Project activities would assist the Government to analyze the
roles of ministries in the transport sector, revise sector regulations, set up human resources
management systems to increase efficiency and enhance competencies, and train ministry
personnel in planning and programming and in identifying ways of improving sector
performance. The sectoral oversight ministries would receive technical support in their efforts to
achieve these objectives and to implement and monitor the project through targeted short-term
periodic technical assistance.
52.   Railways. Restructuring options for the railways are well known, and no additional
studies are needed. The Government acknowledged during appraisal the need for an immediate
decision on the restructuring and requested Bank support to assist in implementing the
restructuring. A decision by the Government on a short-term restructuring option, which has to
be taken at the highest political level, is expected soon (see para. 21 above). This option for a
separate departnent to manage logs and timber transport is acceptable to the Bank as a first step



28
toward implementation of one of the options recommended by the Bank for the long term. The
project would include short-term technical, financial, and legal assistance to finalize the details
of the restructuring plan for the railway sector and initiate its implementation, assuming that the
fnal restructuring option decided by the Government improves efficiency, reduces subsidies, and
therefore is satisfactory to the Bank.
53.   Transit and Maritime Transport.  Project activities would include assistance in
preparing the restructuring of the national maritime transport sector, with a view to reducing its
burden on the economy through the following means:
(a)   A review of the international transport chain. An action plan of priority measures
would be prepared to facilitate operation and reduce the costs of these routes. The
review would be based on a cost analysis of the principal products (manganese,
timber, imports) that are now penalized by the deficiencies of the transport chain.
(b)   Establishment of a management information system within SONATRAM and the
Shippers' Council. The system would provide the basic elements for preparing a
national maritime transport strategy, improving management of human and
financial resources, and collecting and processing statistical information on the
performance of the companies involved. The project would follow up with studies
needed to prepare for implementation of the strategy.
(c)   Definition of the role of the CGC, in cooperation with national shippers'. A
seminar involving all concerned parties will assess the assistance needs of small-
scale shipping agents and make recommendations on the negotiation of freight
rates and the allocation of cargoes, functions currently carried out by CGC. The
seminar would follow up on a June 1992 seminar in Cotonou, which underlined
the need for a new view of shippers& councils that takes into account regional and
global developments in maritime transport.
(d)   Privatization of the national stevedoring and transit company, SNAT. Project
activities would include assistance to the Government in defining a strategy for
privatizing the national stevedoring and transit company.
54.   River Transport and Inland Shipping. The project would help redefine the role of
CNI, the inland shipping company. To help the Government clarify and carry out its strategy for
the subsector, various options for institutional and commercial development would be examined,
including privatizafion through ownership transfer to the company's staff.
55.   Ports. Project activities would help to clarify relations between the state and the port
authority with regard to decision making on investments, amortization and debt servicing, and
other management matters. The project would also help to generate proposals for institutional
restructuring and prepare operational and financial viability studies.



29
56.   Civil Aviation. In the initial phase, the project would assist in developing an institutional
framework for civil aviation administration that would help ensure efficient operation of priority
airports and help define modalities for the manageinent of these airports. Proposals for the
institutional framework will be discussed during a national seminar. In a subsequent phase, the
project would assist in developing an air transport policy at the national. regional, and
intemational levels that included a clear statement on the future role of Air Gabon.
57.   Road Infrastructure.  Seven studies addressing road maintenance issues will be
financed through the ongoing Road Maintenance Project: (a) multiannual road maintenance
programming; (b) privatization of road maintenance; (c) human resources management; (d)
preparation of a training plan; (e) preparation of guidelines for protecting the envirorunent along
roads under construction in forested areas; (f) restructuring of the equipment department; and (g)
implementation of a road fund. To complement these studies, the proposed Technical Assistance
Project would also finance annual seminars on road maintenance organization and management,
the preparation of a program of earth road rehabilitation, and feasibility studies for a program of
road paving.
58.   Road Transport. The project would include the following activities: (a) a review of
road transport regulation and of the role of the Ministry of Transport that incorporates the
concerns of operators in the subsector; (b) preparation of an action plan to improve road safety;
and (c) preparation of an urban transport strategy, including schoolchildren and students
transport, and definition of the institutional setup of the urban transport sector. The project will
include seminars on the organization and management of the road transport sector, and on
proposals for the urban transport institutions in Libreville.
59.   The Environment.  Project activities would include drawing up a statement on
environmental issues in the sector and assisting in drafting guidelines on protection of the
environment in sector operations and investments.  (Project activities are detailed in the
Mitigation Plan in Schedule 4.) The Environmental Mitigation Plan was agreed upon by the
Government during negotiations. The issues likely to be identified relate to dredging in the port
and other port operations and investments, maritime transport, airport operations and
investments, railroad operations and investrnents, and road maintenance and construction. The
project would include seminars to train staff in technical ministries and transport public
enterprises on environmental issues in port and maritime transport, road safety, and road
maintenance and construction and on integration of environmental concerns in the design,
implementation, and monitoring of transport projects, plans, and policies.
D.    Support to the Urban Sector
60.   Institutional Support. This project component would have the following objectives:
(a) to make urban development priorities an integral part of the national macroeconomic and
budget decision making process; (b) to identify institutional, financial, and technical measures
for improving urban management, particularly in Libreville; (c) to strengthen the oversight



30
ministry's capacity to manage sectoral studies; and (d) to prepare an urban infrastructure
investment program. This institutional support would be provided through focused missions by
experts, round table conferences. and discussion workshops orn project related themes.
61.   Urban Management. The project would include four urban sector studies: (a) an urban
investment strategy, to rationalize urban investment budgetary choices; (b) municipal finances
and management, to define an action plan for increasing the productivitv of local municipal
services in Libreville; (c) infrastructure management in Libreville, to establish institutional and
financial frameworks for the maintenance of disposal and surface drainage networks and an
investment program aimed at improving city traffic; and (d) urban land management. to define
the conditions and modalities for public and private sector interventions in existing and planned
residential zones, and to define appropriate least-cost tools and methods for generating improved
information on land occupancy for fiscal purposes.
62.   Pilot Employment Creation Operation. The objective of the pilot operation would be
to assess the feasibility of carrying out infrastructure rehabilitation in the poorer areas of
Libreville using labor-intensive methods that provide employment for laborers unskilled or
semiskilled and minimize the need for heavy equipment. Additional objectives would be to
create a municipal capacity for the design, implementation, and management of construction
works; to identify any technical deficiencies of contractors, with a view to designing remedial
training; and to establish a mechanism for local community participation and ownership of this
type of operation.
63.   The pilot operation would include: (a) preliminary and detailed design of rehabilitation
works for all urban roads in the Avea district of Libreville; (b) targeted technical assistance
activities to help the Municipality to carry out this operation; (c) infrastructure improvement
works in the Avea district, including street and drainage rehabilitation on about three kilometers,
upgrading of public lighting, and development of pedestrian crossings and crossroads.; and
(d) promoting participation in these works among neighborhood residents and monitoring their
impact on employment.
64. The Environment. An environmental component will assess environmental conditions in
the urban sector. The seminars dealing with the urban sector strategy will review the conclusions
of this assessment. Guidelines will be prepared for inclusion of environmental considerations in
sector operations and investments. Staff of the Ministry of Urban Planning and Municipality of
Libreville will be trained in integrating environmental concerns in the design, implementation,
and monitoring of urban projects, plans and policies.
65. As indicated in the Environmental Mitigation Plan agreed a summary environmental
assessment will be included in the detailed design study of the pilot operation, based on the
methodology prepared during appraisal (available in project files). Selection criteria have been
set in light of possible environmental concerns, so no major adverse environmental impact is
anticipated. The projected works will not entail any resettlement of residents. The works will
keep to the existing road design, which is compatible with a standard road lay-out. The sole
exception would be in one discreet section that would have to be one-lane road. Drainage wvorks



31
under the project will be limited since much of the drainage infrastructure, albeit inefficient and
deteriorating, is already in place. Project activities will allow these earlier investments in
drainage infrastructure to yield a positive return for the first time. Procedures for monitoring the
environmental impact of the pilot operation will be defined in the summary environmental
assessment.
E. Technical Assistance, Training, and Seminars
66.   The project would finance 172 person-months of consulting services for policy support,
institutional development, and project preparation at a total cost of about US$3.3 million (Table
3). Consulting services would consist of studies (148 person-months) and short-term missions
(24 person-months). The project coordinator, the Ministry of Urban Planning, and the
Municipality of Libreville would receive, at their request, periodic institutional support through
short-term missions of experts to assist in the management of their component.
Table 3: Person-months by Type of Technical Assistance and Subsector
Subsector                   Policy     Institutional    Project             Bank
Support    Development    Preparation    Total  Share
Railway                         0.0            11.0            7.5   18.5   14.8
Shipping and Ports              0.0            27.0            7.5   34.5   27.6
Civil Aviation and Airports     9.0            18.0           12.0   39.0   31.2
Road Transport                  9.0             4.0            0.0   13.0   10.4
Road Infiastructure             0.0            21.0           30.0   51.5   12.0
Transport Sector Management     0.0            20.0            0.0   20.0   16.4
Urban Sector Management        42.5             8.5           26.5   77.5   60.0
Total                          60.5           109.5           83.5  254.0  172.4
67.   Performance of technical assistance will be reviewed to determine how well consultants
were able to transfer skills and know-how to their counterparts and to strengthen the local
agencies to which they were assigned. During negotiations, the Governnent agreed that the
agencies would designate, before the start of major consulting assignments, qualified
counterparts acceptable to the Bank, who should remain in post until the completion of the
activity. These counterparts will be responsible for preparing seminars related to project
activities and for presenting papers on the conclusions and recommendations of studies. Terms of
reference would detail tasks to be carried out by the counterpart staff as part of their training.
Consultants' proposals should include the time necessary to train counterparts during execution
of studies, and the corresponding budget.
68.   The list of studies to be financed by the project was agreed at negotialions. (A list of
studies is provided in Schedule 2.) The list would be regularly reviewed and updated, if
necessary in the course of Bank supervision missions and in the light of study results already
known of developments in the sector. The terms of reference of 27 studies were prepared during



32
appraisal, are available in the project's files, and will be included in the Project Implementation
Manual. These studies will be carried out during the first period of project execution before mid-
term  review  (see paras. 97 and 98) and will relate to policy support and institutional
development. Further studies to be carried out after mid-term review would Prepare for
implementation of -restructuring decisions in transport sector public enterprises, and would
include feasibility and detailed engineering studies. Their terms of reference will be prepared
during project execution.
69.   Five seminars would be held in the maritime. civil aviation, road infrastructure, road
transport and urban subsectors at the beginning of the project. Thirteen seminars would be held
during project execution. (The list of seminars is provided in Schedule 2.) Specific terms of
reference were prepared for the seminar on the role of the shippers' council. The objectives of
other seminars were included in the terms of reference of related studies financed by the project,
as described-below. The total cost of seminars is estimated at US$164,000.
70.   At project start, training would be provided on Bank procedures and project management
for staff in charge of project execution and on sector management for technical ministry staff
through seminars that encourage discussion of transport and urban sector issues. Thereafter,
training programs will be prepared with the assistance of the institutional support provided to the
project coordinator, the Ministry of Urban Planning and the Municipality of Libreville. (A
methodology for preparing training plans is provided in Schedule 3.) The total cost of training,
excluding training through seminars, is estimated at US$164,000.



33
SECTION B: PROJECT COSTS AND ADMINISTRATION
Z. Project Costs
71.   Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies, net of taxes and duties.
are estimated at US$8.3 million, witlh a foreign exchange component of US$5.9 million or 71
percent. The Government would bear the cost. estimated at US$ 1.0 million, of taxes and duties
levied on imported goods and consultinig services. Detailed project costs are attached to this
section as Schedule 5. A summary breakdown of the costs of the various components is given
below:
Table 4: Estimated Project Costs
Component                                     Total Costs
(US$S'000)
Pilot Operation                                 2,156
Equipment                                         118
Railway Transport                                 384
Maritime Transport and Ports                      964
Civil Aviation and Airports                       863
Road Transport                                    432
Road Infrastructure                              1,247
Transport Sector Management                       739
Urban Management                                1,259
Operating Costs                                   138
Total                                           8,303
11. Procurement
72.   General Procurement Arrangements. During negotiations, the Govermment agreed to
follow the procurement procedures and arrangements described below.
Procurement of Civil Works
73.   Procurement Procedures. The major objective of the pilot operation is to test the use of
labor-based methods and to demonstrate their impact on employment generation and the
development of local small and medium-size contractors. Therefore, procurement procedures
will be as follows:
(a)    Works may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.



34
(b)   For fixed-price contracts. the invitation to bid shall provide that, when contract
award is delayed beyond the original bid validitv period, the successful bidder's
bid price will be increased for each week of delay by a predisclosed correction
factor acceptable to the Bank. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in
the bid evaluation.
74.   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions:
(a)   W ith respect to: (i) each contract awarded during the first twelve months afer
Effective Date (ii) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more;
and (iii) contracts for wvhich less than four acceptable bids have been received, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the Special
Accounts. such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contracts, required to be fumished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d). shall be furrished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account managed by the Municipality in respect of
such contracts.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the Special
Account managed by the Municipality, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contracts together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3,
shall be fumished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to contracts on
account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure.
Procurement of Goods
75.   International Competitive Bidding. Except as provided in paragraph 77 below, goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the
Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original
bid validity period, the successful bidderes bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local



3S
currency componetnt of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)   In the procuremnent of goods in accordance w ith this paragraph. thie Borrower shall
use the relevant standard bidding documents issuied by thc Bank with such
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary or the
purposes of the Project. W!here no relevant standard bidding doecuments have been
issued ty the Bank. the Borrowter shall use bidding documents based otn other
internati-mall) recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
76.   To the extent practicable. contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more.
77.   Other Procurement Procedures:
(a)   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of SI0,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $40.000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding. advertised locally, in accoraance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $20,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines. in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
78.   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods to be awarded according to the procedures
set forth in paragraph 75 and 77 above, but the latter limited to the first twelve
months after the Effective Date, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of a Special Account. such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract. required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 -(d), shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the
making of the first payment out of such Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the prcceding paragraph, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special Account,
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conforned copies of the
contract, together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence



3f
to be furnished showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures..
(c)   The provisions of the prcceding subparagraph (bi shall not applv to contracts on
account of which withdrawals are to be maa, on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
79.   Modification of Waiver of the Terms and Conditions of Contracts. Before agreeing
to any material modification or waiver of the terms and coniditions of a contract that would
increase its cost by more than 10 percent of the (original price (10 pcrcent would be specified for
the purpose of para. 4 of Appendix I to the Bank's (Guidelines). the Borrowver should inform the
Bank of the proposed modification and reasons thereof.
Employment of Consultants
80.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower agreed to employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants will be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower
will employ such consultants under contracts using the standard forn of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower will
use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
81.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 80, the provisions of the Consultants
Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts will not apply to: (a) contracts for
the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent each.
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review will not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for
suc.h contracts; (b)- single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment
of consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments
to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $25,000
equivalent or above.
III. Disbursements
82.   To facilitate disbursements and to ensure that finds are available on time to finance the
costs of services and works to be provided under the project, the Government agreed to establish
two Special Accounts in commercial bai'ks on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The
two Special Accounts will be managed by the Municipality of Libreville for the pilot urban civil
works component and by the Ministry of Planning for all other components. The opening of the



3-
Special Accounts is a condition of loan effectiveness. The authorized amount of each Special
Account is US$250,000; requests for replenishing the accounts will be submitted to the Bank
monthlv or at such intervals as the Bank shall specifv.
83.   To ensure the timely provision of countetpart funds by the Government. two Project
Accounts will be opened in commercial banks. As a coniditionz of loan efftre iveness, the
Government agreed to deposit an initial amount of US$170,000 equivalent iin he Project
Account to be managed by the Municipality of Libreville and US$100,000 equivalent in the
Project Account to be managed by MEPRSPP. The subsidiary agreement between the
Municipality and the Government specifies the procedures for replenishing the Pr*ject Account
of the Municipality.
84.   Disbursements will be made against standard Bank documentation, except for contracts
of less than US$30,000 equivalent for which certified statements of expenditure would be used.
These statements of expenditure will be subject to review by supervision missions and periodic
financial audits. The minimum application size for payments directly from the loan account will
be US$30,000.
IV. Accounting and Auditing
85.   Accounting. The two executing agencies, MEPRSPP and the Municipality of Libreville,
agreed to maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accord:ance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, ill
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereo MEPRSPP will be responsible for preparing consolidated
accounts for the whole project. Aso  9ndition of loan effectiveness, a qualified accounting firm,
acceptable to the Bank, will be recruited to establish a computerized accounting system for the
project and give periodic support to the project accountant.
86.   Auditing.  The selection of the auditors is a condition of loan effectiveness. During
negotiations, the Government agreed that the Borrower and the Municipality would:
(a)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph 85 for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with intemational auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)   finnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
-scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(c)   furnish to the Bank such other infornation conceming said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request; and



3S
(d)    have the records and accounts of the Special Accounts audited in accordance with
paragraphs (a) through (c) above: (i) every four months during the first twelve
- -    months after the Effective Date; (ii) everv six months during the second twelve
months after the 1Jffective Date: and (iii) thereafter. annually until the completion
of the Project: and furnish such audits to the Bank at the latest u-ithin two months
following the end ol the period audited.
87.   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the l oan Account were
made on the basis of statements of expenditure. the Borrower shlall:
(a)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 85, records and
accounts reflectint. such expenditures:
(b)    retain. until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of
the Special Account wvas made. all records (contracts. orders. invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(c)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records: and
(d)    ensure that such records and accounts are inzluded in the perioldic audits referred
to in paragraph 86 abov-e and that the report uf such audits contains a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during the period preceding such audit, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.



39
SECTION C: IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
1. Organization and Managenient
88.   Fhe project would be coordinated bv MEPRSPP. MTTPN, MMMP, MEC and MHCU
would be responsible for the execution of project components in their respective subsectors.
MEPRSPP would be responsible for activities covering more than one transport subsector.
Activities related to the restructuring of public enterprises would be carried out in coordination
with the Committee for Public Sector Restructuring. The Municipality of Libreville would be
the executing agency of the pilot urban civil works component. A detailed description of the
implementation of pilot civil works component is provided in Schedule 6.
89.   The appointment by the Government of a project coordinator acceptable to the Bank is a
condition of loan effectiveness. The terms of reference of the project coordinator were agreed
during appraisal. The coordinator will be responsible for the administrative and financial
coordination and management of the project. The coordinator will: (a) ensure that procurement
documentation sent to the Bank complies with the directives and legal agreements; (b) monitor
project execution and, jointly with the supervisors of the various components in the technical
ministries, review progress in implementing the project, compliance with the implementation
schedule, updating requirements, and implementation issues; and (c) make arrangements for
Bank supervision missions and for mid-term review. The project coordinator will be supported
by an accountant, a secretary, and a clerk. The project will provide the goods necessary for
project management and will finance incremental operating costs--trips, communications,
maintenance of computers, and salaries of support staff under contract--that would not have been
incurred by the Borrowerts administration or the Municipality of Libreville in the absence of the
project.
90.   A Project Implementation Manual will be prepared to help the project coordinator
implement and monitor the project. The manual would include -" proiect procedures agreed
with the Bank, standard bidding documents for goods and consultants, the list of consulting
services to be procured, detailed project costs, the terms of reference of the studies and support
services to be carried out, standard forms for progress reports, agreed monitoring indicators, the
annual work programs, and the Manual of Procedures to be prepared by the Municipality of
Libreville to govern implementation of the pilot operation. An outline of the implementation
manual was agreed during negotiations, and the manual should be completed before loan
effectiveness.
11. Implementation Schedule
91.   During negotiations, the Government agreed on the implementation schedule of the
project as attached to this section, as Schedule 7. It was prepared on the assumption that the loan



40
would become effective in September 1994 and that the studies and other project activities would
start in November 1994. The project would be executed over a 30-month period and would be
closed on September 31, 1997.
92.  lThe pro ect coordinator should:
(a)   establish. with-in three months afiter the Effective Date, a short list of experienced
consultants. acceptable to the Bank. qualified to carry out services under the
Project: and
(b)   furnish to the Bank at yearly intervals a program of seminars -workshops and
training for the next twelve months. acceptable to the Bank.
93.   The Borrower should prepare and furnish to the Bank within two years after the Effective
Date:
(a)   a medium- and long-term  transport sector strategy, acceptable to the Bank,
reflecting, inter alia, the views of the administration, donors active in the sector,
and of representatives of the public and private- sector, to enhance: (i) the
economic efficiency, (ii) transparency in management, and (iii) a reduction in
transport sector public subsidies: and
(b)   an urban sector strategy, acceptable to the Bank, reflecting, inter alia, the views of
the administration, donors active in the sector, of the Municipality, and of
representatives of the public and private sector, to improve: (i) urban
management, (ii) investment planning and programming, and (iii) urban service
and infrastructure efficiency.
III. Reporting and Monitoring
94.   During negotiations, the Government agreed on the content and timing of progress
reports. A standard form of progress report was prepared during appraisal. The final form would
be included in the Project Implementation Manual. Progress reports would be prepared quarterly
and in advance of each Bank supervision mission. The reports would review progress on
financial execution and studies and would provide the monitoring indicators (see Schedule 8) for
gauging progress in achieving project objectives. MEPRSPP would submit an Implementation
-Completion Report to the Bank no later than six months after the closing date of the project.



41
IV. Supervision Plan
95.   Bank staff input into the supervision of the project would take the following form:
(a)   Project launch workshop. The workshop would be held during the first Bank
supervision mission. Bank procedures and the Project Implementation Manual
would be discussed in detail and presented to the executing agencies.
(b)   Portfolio management. Procurement documents. terms of reference and reports
(progress, final, studies, financial statements) would be reviewed at Bank
headquarters.
(c)   Field supervision. Missions wvould review the progress of technical assistance and
studies in the three broad project areas of policy support. institutional
development, and project preparation and implementation. Missions would
monitor the impact of project activities and discuss action plans for implementing
study recomniendations.
(d)   Participation in project activities. To the extent possible, Bank staff in charge of
project supervision would participate in seminars to be carried out during project
execution.
96.   A proposed supervision plan for the 1995-1997 Bank fiscal years is attached to this
section, as Schedule 9.
V. Mid-term Review
97.   No later than November 30, 1995, the project coordinator would convene a workshop to
review progress at midway through project execution. The workshop would be attended by
representatives of ministries, public enterprises, the Bank supervision  mission, and
representatives of donor agencies active in the sector. The review process would include
progress in meeting project objectives, amounts and adequacy of local counterpart funding,
mechanisms to improve project implementation, and action programs to implement study
recommendations. The workshop would also assess progress in the restructuring of railways.
During negotiations, the Government agreed on the principle and objectives of the mid-termn
review.
98.   The mid-term  review would provide an opportunity for the Bank to assess the
Government's continued commitment to the project's objectives. The critical elements of the
assessment would relate to: (a) the use of participatory methodologies for involving all public
and private stakeholders in preparing transport and urban sector strategies; (b) the option taken to
restructure the railway company and its consistency with the macroeconomic framework; and (c)



42
the Government's strategy for urban and maritime transport development. Based on the
assessment in critical subsectors such as railway, maritime, and urban transport. the Bank will
decide whether:  (a) to provide continued support to the project, through further studies on
restructuring and investment, and to consider new Bank operations in the transport and urban
sectors; (b) to cancel some components that wvere not satisfactorily implemented while
continuing to support others; or (c) to cancel the entire project and stop Bank involvement in the
transport and urban sectors.



GABONESE REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SECTION A: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Scbedule 1: Key Project Activities
Govemnment Objectives         Project Component Activitics        Expected Results/mpact                    T'iming Tatgets           Responsible Agency
Strengthen transport sector   Analysis of the roles of ministries in   Proposed new organization of sector  06/30/1                    MFitRSPP
management.                   the transport sector,               ministries.
Preparation and execution of training   Training of technical staff who will be  06/30197              M11TPN, MMMP,
programs.                          responsible for the implementation of action                         MEC
plans defined during project execution.
Assistance in defining procedures    Implementation of improved procedurcs for    06/30/96              MTTPN, MMMI',
for improving human resources      human resources management.                                         MEC
management.
Define ways to increase       Preparation of a transport sector   Preparation of action plans defining      06/30/97                  MEPRSPP, M iTPN.
transport sector efficiency,  strategy.                           regulatory and institutional measures                               MMMII, MEC
develop competition, decrease                                     necessary to achieve Govemment objectives.
transport costs, and reduce the
drain of state resources caused
by transport public enterprises.                                                                                                                                         X
Strengthen programming and    Preparation of investment and       Public Investment Plan for thc transport and    09/30197            MlE.lRSPIP, MrlTPN,
planning capacity.            development plans.                  urban sectors.                                                      MMMP, MIC, MIICLJ
Improve urban sector          Preparation of an urban sector      Preparation of action plans defining      06131)96                  MI ICU,
management (urban investment  strategy.                           regulatory and institutional measures
planning, urban budgeting,                                        necessary to achieve Govemmcnt objectives.
management of infrastructure in
Libreville, urban land tenure
system)
Prepare restructuring of public    Restructuring studies and support to    Preparation of action plans including  Railway: i0O1/96   MT-rPN
enterprises in the transport  implementation of restructuring     restructuring, privatization, and liquidation.    Port: 06/30/96    MMMP
sector.                       measures.                                                                     Shipping sector: 06101/96   MMMP
Civil aviation: 03/31/96  MITPN
Support the employment        Execution of a pilot operation in   Definition of the institutional framework  12/31/96                 Municipality of
generation policy through the    Libreville.                      needed for sustainable development of local                         Libreville
use of labor-based methods in                                     small and medium-size enterprises for the
urban civil works.            _                                   execution of labor-based works.           _    M
MMMP: Ministty of Merchant Shipping and Fisheries; MTTN: Ministry of Transport, Tourism and National Parks; MEC: Ministry of                                      O l
Equipment and Construction, MEPRSPP: Ministry of Planning, Economy, Restructuring of Public Sector, and Privatization; MHCU:Ministry of
Housing, Cadastre, and Urban Planning.



44
Schedule 2
Page 1 of 2
GABONESE REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LIST OF STUDIES
Sector               Policy Support and Institutional Development Studiesa
Railway             -Support to restructuring of OCTRA
Shipping and ports    -Maritime traffic study
-Institutional and financial study of the development of Gabonese ports
-Study of the environmental issues generated by port and shipping activities
-Study of the international chain of transport
-Design of a management information system for the maritime sector
-Development of CNI
-Preparation for privatization of SNAT
Civil aviation       -Support to airports and civil aviation authorities
-Development of air transport in Gabon
Road transport      -Assistance in the preparation and implementation of a road safety policy
-Study of the road transport industry
-Institutional organization of urban transport in Libreville
-Funds flow analysis of urban transport in Libreville
-Action plan for school bus network
Road infrastructure    -Multiannual programming
-Privatization of road maintenance
-Human resources matiagement
-Training plan
-Road environment in forested areas
-Equipment department restructuring
-Establishment of a road fund
Transport sector     -Institutional support to the ministries of the ti-ansport sector
management          -Implementation of a project accounting system
-Project audits
Urban management    -Municipal finance and management
-Urban land tenure system
-Infrastructure management in Libreville                  .
-Strateg- for urban investment
.__________________ -Engineering study of the pilot operation
aThese studies would be carried out during the first period of project execution before the mid-term
review.



45
Schedule 2
Page 2 of 2
GABONESE REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LIST OF STUDIES
Sector                Transport Public Enterprises Restructuring and Project Preparation Studies
Railwav              -Infrastructure and equipment rehabilitation plan
Shipping and ports    -Feasibilitv of the investment plan
Civil aviation        -Airport engineering studies
Road infrastructure   -Detailed design of the road maintenance program
j____________________  -Feasibility study of the pavement of priority roads
Urban management    -Preparation of a labor-based works program
bThese would be carried out during the second period of project execution after the mid-term review.
LIST OF SEMINARS
Sector               Seminars
Shipping and ports    -Sector organization and managemc
-Role of the shippers' council
-International chain of transport
-Maritime sector management system
-Port environment
Civil aviation       -Sector organization and management
._______ _  -Airport development policy
Road transport       -Sector organization and management
-Road transport industry
-Urban transport institutions
-Road safety
Road infrastructure    -Road maintenance organization and management
-Human resources management
-Privatization of road maintenance
-Road environument in forest areas
Transport sector     -Project launch workshop
management           -Integration of environmental concerns in the design, implementation, and
_________ _ .monitoring    of transport projects, plans and policies
Urban management    -Urban sector review
-Use of labor-based methods
-Integration of environment in the design, implementation, and monitoring of urban
.____ .projects, plans, and policies



46
Schedule 3
Page I of 2
GABONESE REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TRAINING PROGRAM
1.    Training Seminars. These seminars w;ill be organized at proiect start. After an
initial diagnostic phase of comparinig sector management in Gabon witlh developments in
this field worldwide, the seminars wvill move to discussion of how the sector operates in
Gabon. The outcome wvould be a set of recommendations that should either reinforce the
activities proposed in the project or lead to their reorientation. The seminars' themes are
the follow.ing:
(a)   maritime transport: international legislation. maritime economics, port
economics;
(b)   air transport: international legislation, civil aviation and airport economics;
and
(c)   road transport: road transport administration, urban transport policies, road
safety.
2.    If justified, the following themes will be considered:
(a)   administrative management: administrative services' organization, human
resources management, management information systems;
(b)   external financing of development projects; and
(c)   management of enterprises.
3.    Participation of Local Counterparts in Studies. Training activities should aim.
at making trained staff capable of using in their position the experience gained through
participation in studies. This objective will be included in the terms of reference of
consultants. Training will be carried out either through the execution of specifi,z tasks by
the local counterparts according to terms of reference, or through more formal training
carried out by the consultants to explain the methodology and tasks carried out under the
study. A report will be prepared by the counterparts for tasks executed by them.
Consultants' proposals should include the time necessary to train counterparts during
execution of studies, and the corresponding budget. Training efficiency will be assessed
during the discussions and seminars held during project execution, where counterparts
will have to present conclusions and recommendations of studies. Counterparts will also
have to prepare summaries of studies. The project coordinator will monlitor resources
allocated to training.



4-
Schedule 3
Page 2 of 2
4:    Other Training Activities. These activities will include:
(a)    At project start. Traininga of ministry staff in charge of project execution
on project management.- A seminar will present procurement,
disbursemetit accounting. monitoring and reporting procedures for Bank
protjects.
(b)    During the first six months of project execution. Ministry staff in charge
of preparing investment decisions wvill be trained on planning and
programming.
5.    Preparation of Training Plans. During project execution, training plans will be
prepared annually by the consultants which will provide institutional support to the sector
ministries. Training activities should aim at increased staff productivity and ability to
deliver services. Training will be defined after identifying tasks and responsibilities that
ministry staff or group of staff are not able to execute or fulfill because of lack of
competencies. The training program should be designed to respond to:
(a)   Individual staff needs. Such training activities should be limited because
of their cost and the difficulty of clearly identifying training requirements
and priorities.
(b)    Group needs. This maximizes the productivity of resources invested in the
program. and should be the priority.
6.    Training sites should be first in the country of the Borrower, either on the work
site, or in local training centers. When training requirements cannot be achieved in the
country, training should be considered in a regional training center, and, as a last resort,
in another continent. In the latter case, it should be clearly demonstrated that the training
is in accordance with project objectives, and does not interfere with work execution and
responsibilities of trained staff during project execution.
7.    Training plans will be prepared for one year, and submitted to the Bank as well as
their cost, for no-objection at least one month before they start. Per diem will be paid on
the basis of UNDP tariffs. The Government will bear the balance in excess with actual
expenditures.



4A
Schedule 4
Page I of 2
(xAllO.NESE REPUBLIC'
4' Vt Sl? tRT S1'ECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROiECT
EN- X RON NENTAL  I1TIGATION PLAN
i. 'Transport Sectoi' Coiiaponevit
1.     1 the trainrsport sector component w-ill assess the environmental situation  in the
transport sector and liell) prepare guidelines for inclutsioni of environmental considerations in
sector opetations and invvestmncts. The following activities have been identified as possibly
having an adN erse impact on cnmironiiient:
(a) Port dredging. operationis and investments:
(b) NIaritime transport:
(c} Airport operations and investments:
(d) Railway operations and investments:
(e) Road maintenance and investments: and
(f) Road safetv
2.    Terms of reference of the environmental assessment have been prepared specifically
for activities (a), (b) and (e). Terms of reference for the preparation of a road safety policy
were also prepared. The terms of reference of the sector development perspective studies for
activities (c) include a reference to the preparation of environmental assessment. All terms of
reference are available in the prcject files. Conclusions of the environmental assessments will
be presented and discussed during seminars to be organized during project execution. Several
seminars wil also be held to train the staff of ministries and transport public enterprises on
awareness of environmental issues in port and maritime transport, road safety. and road
maintenance and construction and on integration of environmental considerations in the
design, implementation. and monitoring of transport projects, plans, and policies.
11. Urban Sector Component
3.     Ihe urban sector component will assess the environmental situation in the urban
sector. This assessment will be examined during thle seminars organized to discuss the urban
sector strategy. Guidelines will be prepared for inclusion of envitonmental considerations in
sector operations and investments. The staff of MHCU and Libreville Municipality will be
trained in integrating environmental considerations in the design, implementation, and
monitoring of transport projects, plans, and policies.



;5.<leche'tin 4
Vave 2 ot' 2
11. Iabor-Ma.sed Pilot Opcratitnt
4.     Although no signiticant adverse imnpac oin the cnx ironnietit is aliiniii  i i     iiit
operation area. a sumnman enviroimental aSsessment Will hK ca-FiCd Or furiite title dIlailted
design study of the works financed under the piioI operotion. in c*rilihanc c '.ith tc' t netiolnai
environment code of August 26. 1P993),. 'the niethodolog  of the :WflflUi ozv!rOIimeiaJ
assessment is detailed in a document available in project fl,es. v%hikhh lis t,, Ile polntidi
primary  impacts of such  operation  andi their consequen:txs on  lnatural and  humtnatn
environments. The document summarizes mitigationt measures to ,be Conlsidered belore.
during, and after execution of the works. In additioni. reporting reqLirelllents, arc detai,lied I'o
each step of the environmental assessment.
5.     The following criteria, w-hich were used in selectinig the pilot operation site. cxplain
why no significant adverse impact on the environment is expected in the pilot opcration:
(a)    No resettlement should be required. The project wvill keep to the existing  road
design, which authorizes a standard profile for all road sections but one. On
that section, which is independent of the others, the transversal profile will be
reduced to one way, and traffic will be authorized in one direction onh.
(b)    The drainage works requested for the operation should be limited. especially
below the site. Drainage infrastructure exists alreadv. but it is useless and
deteriorating because of lack of maintenance. By, rehabilitating the drainage
system, the project will increase the return on this investment. Thich hlas been
zero.



GABONESE REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SECTION B: PROJECT COSTS AND ADMINISTRATION
SCHEDULE 5: DETAILED COSTS ESTIMATE
.____________________________iI~I             CFXVO   .                      us$.000                       CFA I00
| P i Con   l                                 I Person   Ldcal |Foreign |  Total|  Local |ForeIgn |  Tota1   Local  1 ForeIgn o w   F               Local |Foreign    To
gmeCW su Icln ontingecnies
I WORKS                                             -       235,242   705.726   940,969       401      1,202     1,603   390,702   874,995  1,265,697     666      1,491     2,1%
2cOODS                                                            0    52,700    58,700         0       100       100         0    69,095    69,095          0       1is       118
3. CONSULTANCIES
a)P9 Lcyuwppo t                                      60.5    70,264   363,290   435,554       120       622       742   110,623   410,942   521,565        18i       700       889
b)S ItitiacaW Devetopmnat                           110.0  135,421  1,018,034 1,153,455      231      1,734     1,965   201.173 1 122,552 1.323.725       343     1,912     2,255
c) tqo!co preparation and implawntation appoit for the  59.5   145,928   347,319   693,247    249       932      1,181   233,929   618,138   852,068       399     1.053      1.452
"md  tbnseam.
d Suppot to wotks cxecution                          24.0   95,760    64,453   160,213        163       110       273   144,231    72,040   216,271        246     122.7       368
4. TRAINING AND SEMINARS                                    189,895   232,746   422,640       324       397       720   287,514   257,144   544,658        490       43S2      928      o
. OPERATING COSTS                                    -       29,350    29,350    58,700        50        50       100    46,678    34,223    80,901         30        528      131
TOTAL                                               254.0  901.860 3.021.618 3.923.4?77      136       5,148     6,684 1,414,249 3.459,130 4,273,979     2 410     5.893     8 303
Labrbaed Pitot Oration                                      235,242   705.726   940,969       401      1,202     1,603   390,702   874.995 1,265,697       666     1,491     2,156
Cnpulal                                                           0 a58,700    58,700           0       100        100         0    69,095    69,095         0       118      -118
Rsaiway                                              18.5   19,547   175,924   195,471         33       300       333    30,039   196,100   226,139         51       334       385
Shipping MOd Potts                                   34.5   92.805   383,252   476.057        158       653       811   140!495   425.661   566.156        239       725       964
Civil Aviionud Aiports                               39.0   56,352   375,093   431,44'         96       639       735    87.153   420,860   508,0 12 _     148       717       865
Road T5nspor1                                        13.0    51.891   IS5,907   207,798        B8       2666      354    79,506   173,826   253,392        135       296       432
Road IUiasbucUte                                     51.5   96,914   530,589   627,503        165       9041    1,069   144,709   586,708   731,417        247     1,000     1,246
Tnhsmport Sectr Mfanasan                             20.0   113,643   230,339   343.982       194       392 _     586   178,152   255,605   433,757        303       435       739
UtMb nagpiat                                         77.5  206,116   376,737   5822853        351       642       993   317,416   421,998   739,414        541       719     1,260
Operating Coats                               _              29,350    293.O   58,7001         50        50o    _o - 46,6781  34,223    80,901             8g         52       132
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                             -
12minCo                                                                                                                                                         59- 19
< &



51
Schedule 6
Page I of 2
GABONESE REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PILOT URBAN CIVIL WORKS COMPONENT
1. Objectives
I.    This component is intended to assess the feasibility, of carrving out infrastructure
rehabilitation in the poorer quarters of Librexille using methods and technologies (for instance,
cement blocks) that maximize the use of unskilled and semiskilled labor in construction work
and minimize the need for heavy equipment.
2.    Complementary objectives would be: (a) to create a municipal capacity for the design,
implementation, and management of these kinds of works: (b) to identify possible technical
deficiencies of contracting firms so that remedial action could be taken; and (c) to define a
mechanism for participation, including financial participation, in ownership of these operations
by neighborhood communities.
3.    The component would include: (a) preliminary and detailed design studies of
rehabilitation works on roads in the Avea district of Libreville; (b) targeted technical assistance
activities to help the Municipality carry out the operation; (c) neighborhood infrastructure
improvement works, consisting of street and gutter rehabilitation over about 3 kilometers,
upgrading of public lighting, and the development of pedestrian walkways and crossings; (d)
supervision of works; (e) outreach and neighborhood participation in these works; and (f)
continuous monitoring of their impact on employment.
II. Agreements to be Reached
4.    In addition to the Loan Agreement to be signed between Gabon and the World Bank, a
project agreement would specify that the Government, as Borrower, will repay the lender the
funds that would be placed at the disposal of Libreville Municipality (at no charge) to carry out
this component of the pilot operation. A subsidiary agreement between the Municipality and the
Government would specify the responsibilities of each party and the Goverrnent's oversight and
supervision of the funds that would be placed at the Municipality's disposal by the World Bank
(frequency of technical and financial audits, information on disbursements and time elapsed
before payment of contractors, frequency and content of progress reports, and so on). The
signing .of an agreement satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
III. Implementation
5.    The Libreville Municipality would be the executing agency for this pilot operation. It
would manage contracts and funds associated with the operation and the World Bank. The
World Bank would deposit the funds directly into a Special Account; the Government would
deposit its part into a Project Account at a local commercial bank accessible only to the



52
Schedule 6
Page 2 of 2
Municipality. The Municipality would use the account to pay for work contracted under the pilot
operation (studies, works and technical assistance) -   -
6.    Works Contracts. As executing agency, the Municipality would be responsible for
dividing component works into lots within an estimated cost of CFAF 40 million to CFAF 70
million, for soliciting bids and signing contracts, and for paying contracting companies during
implementation of works (within no more than 15 days from the date of signature by the chief
engineer).
7.    The invitations to bid would be open to all companies and would be locally advertised.
Bidding documents would specify post-qualification criteria. The company selected for any
given lot would be the lowest responsive bidder among those that met the post-qualification
criteria.
8.   The chief engineer would prepare, for the Municipality, the technical evaluation of bids.
An internal commission would be responsible for contract awards. Bids would be opened
publicly in the hour following the deadline for bid submission; the meetings for contr.ct awards
would be public. Minutes of the bid opening proceedings would be copied to the Government
and to the World Bank.
9.   Model bidding documents would be used. Documentation would be subject to review by
the World Bank before invitations to bid were made.
10.   Contracts for Studies and Technical Assistance to the Municipality.  Detailed
engineering studies and supervision of works contracts will be let after competition in
accordance with World Bank guidelines for employment of consultants under World Bank
financed projects.
IV. Outreach And Socio-Economic Impact
11.   The Municipality would contract with a suitably qualified NGO to manage outreach
activities for the pilot operation. A list of prequalified NGOs would be drawn up after
international advertisement. The Municipality would then invite proposals from a short list of
preselected NGOs, in accordance with World Bank guidelines.
12.  The objectives of this component would be to inform neighborhood groups about the
pilot operation works so that they understand its benefits and are not unduly inconvenienced or
disposed to disrupt its operations. The, NGO would also review the operations, organization, and
recruitment methods of the companies working on the pilot operation; evaluate their impact on
employment creation (what kind of jobs, for what period); identify areas of weakness in the
technical, financial, and administrative management of these companies; and prepare suitable
courses for remedial training. After implementation of the pilot operation, the NGO would
conduct surveys to establish beneficiaries' willingness to participate in such operations, to
identify possible channels for future participation in similar operations, and to recommend
smilar works for the future.



GABONESE REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Start of Activity                 End'of Activity
Railways                                                                                                       _        ___
Port and Maritime Transport
*   Training and seminar on sector management and organization                              Effectiveness                     6 months after effectiveness
*   Traffie flow study                                                                      Effectiveness                     6 months after effectiveness
*'  Management infonnation system in the maritime sector, and seminar                       Effectiveness                     Mid-term review
*   Study of the international chain of transport, and seminar                              Effectiveness                     Mid-term review
*   Institutional and finaneial study of OPRAG                                              Effectiveness                     12 months after effectiveness
*   Development of CNI                                                                      Effectiveness                     12 months after effectiveness
*   Prepartion for privatization of SNAT                                                    Effectiveness                      12 months after effectiveness
*   Study and seminar on the environmental issues generated by port and shipping activities  Effectiveness                     12 months afet cflctieness
*   Seminar on the role of the Shippers Council                                             Effectiveness                     6 months after effectiveness
Civii Aviation and Airports
*   Training and seminar on sector management and organization                              Effectiveness                     6 months after effectiveness
*   Support to airports and civil aviation authorities, and seminar                         June 1994 (PPF)                   Mid-tenn review
*   Development of air transport in Gabon                                                   6 months after'start of the study on    12 months aflerstart of the study
airpor sector development
Road Transport
*   Training and seminar on sector management and organization                              Effcctivericss                    6 months aftcr clccnvcncss
*   Study of the road transport industry, and seminar                                       6 months after effcctiveness      Mid-term review
*   Road safety study                                                                       Mid-term review                   9 months after start of the study
*   Seminar on road safety                                                                  6 months after completion of the  Annual seminar -
*   Funds flow analysis of urban transport in Libreville                                    study                             6 months after start of the study
*   Institutional organization of urban transport in Libreville, and seminar                June 1994 (PPF)                   6 months after start of the study
*   Action plan for school children and students transport                                  Junt 1994 (PPF)                   6 months afRer start of the study
June 1994 (PPF)                   __'
Road Infrastructure
*   Training and seminar on sector management and organization                              January 1995                      every year
*   Multiannual programming of road mantenance                                              June 1994                         December 1994
*   Human resources management, and seminar                                                June 1994                          December 1994
*   Privatization of road maintenance, and seminar                                          June 1994                         December 1994
*   Prepamtion of a training plan                                                           June 1994                         Deccmber 1994
*   Road environment in forested areas                                                      June 1994                         December 1994
*   Restructring of the department of civil works equipment                                 June 1994                         December 1994
*   Establishnent of a road fund                                                            June 1994                         December 1994
Tasport Sector Management
*   Institational support to the ministries in the transport sector                         June 1994 (PPF)                   Project closure
*   Implementation of the accounting system                                                 June 1994 (PPF)                   Project effectiveness
*   Project audits                                                                          June 1994                         6 months afler project closure
*   Semnuar on integration of environmental coneems in the design, implementation, and      Effectivcness                     6 months after pro ject closure
monitoring of transport projects. plans and policies                                        ,             ._-_,_-
5ve2
_ 



GABONESE REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Start of Activity                  End of Activity
Urban Management
*   Engineering study of the pilot operation                                                   June 1994 (PPF)                     IftTectiveness
*   Technical assistance to the Municipality for the execution of pilot operation              June 1994 (PPF)                     Effectiveness
*   Ncighborhood outreach and monitoring of the impact of thc pilot operation on employment    Effectiveness                       I S months after elfectiveness
*   Seminar or, labor-based methods                                                            Effectiveness                       6 months after effectiveness
*   Execution of the pilot operation                                                           Effectiveness                       I S months after eflctivencss
*   Supervision of the works execution                                                         Effectivcness                       18 months aflcr eflcvtivcnwss
*   Urban finance and managemcnt                                                               Eftectiveness                       6 months after effectiveness
*    Land tenure management                                                                    12 months after effectiveness       18 months after effectiveness
*   Infrastructure management in Libreville                                                    12 months after eflectiveness       18 months after efkcctiveness
*   Strategy for urban investment                                                              Effectivencss                       6 months after cltcctiveness
*   Institutional support to the Ministry of Urban Planning                                    Iffectiveness                       Mid-term review
O   Traffic management study                                                                   June 1994 (PPI:)                    6 months atter effectiveness
*   Seminar of urban sector management                                                         12 months afler cffectiveness       Mid-terrn review
*   Scminar on integration of environmental concems in the design, implementation. and         Fffcctiveness                       omonths alctr effectiveness
_   monitoring of urban projects, plans and policies
O -r



55
Schedule 8
Page 1 of 2
GABONESE REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
General Objectives. The project will be regarded as successful if strategy papers are
prepared for the transport sector and fbr the urban sector, and if both are approved by the
Govemment before the end of project execution.
Local Involvement Methods. The project will be regarded as successful if seminars and
debates on sector operations in Gabon are organized during the first six months of project
execution, and if working groups are regularly organized to participate in the studies and
in project monitoring.
Results of the Studies. The project will be regarded as successful if the study outputs are
discussed and approved, during the implementation, by all the people involved.
Training during Implementation of the Studies. The project will be regarded as
successfil if the representatives of the Government selected to oversee implementation of
the studies have produced the required reports and have executed all the tasks they were
asked to do in the terms of reference of the studies.
Institutional Support. The project will be regarded as successful if:
(a) New texts redefining the roles of the sector supervisory ministries have
been prepared if necessary. These new texts would be based on the
experience of ministry staff and would have been discussed with the people
involved.
(b)   Human resources management methods have been designed to promote
proficiency and efficiency.
(c)   The staff of the nministries have been trained in planning and programming
methods, ministries are accountable for their budget according to these
methods and a draft public investment program for the transport sector has
been prepared using these methods.
Environment. The project will be regarded as successfil if the Environment Mitgation
Plan has been properly implemented: (a) environmental assessments in the transport and
urban sectors have been carried out and seminars held to discuss their conclusions; (b)
guidelines have been prepared for inclusion of environmental considerations in the design,
implementation, and monitoring of transport and urban projects; (c) concened staff of
ministries, transport public enterprises, and Libreville Muncipality were trained on
envronmental issues in transport and environment; and (d) the environmental impact of
the pilot operation was monitored and no major adverse impact was found.



56
Schedule 8
Page 2 of 2
Urban Works Pilot Operation.  The project will be regarded as successful if the
following execution periods are met:
(a)   less than six months for invitation to bid for the study, detailed design
study, final design, and preparation of the bidding documents for the
works;
(I,)  less than three months for the procurement of works;
(c)   from three, four to six months for work execution, depending on the size of
the package; and
(d)   less than fifteen days for payment of contractors.
Project Management. The project will be regarded as successfil if the Bank's
procurement procedures, disbursement, audits, and monitoring of the project are followed.



5-
Schedule 9
Page 1 of 2
GABONESE REPUBLIC
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Activity              Skill                           Staff-weeks
Headquarters Mission
1994      Project launch        Transport economist       6             3
Mission 1  workshop.             Financial analyst         1            2
Procurement.          Public enterprise specialist   1        2
Completion of terms of  Railway specialist      0.5
refrence of studies.  Shipping and port specialist  0.5       1
Preparation of the    Civil aviation specialist  0.5
labor-based pilot     Road engineer             0.5           1
operation.            Urban specialist          0.5           1
1995      Review of progress.   Transport econoniist      6             3
Mission I  Procurement.          Financial analyst         1
Participation in      Public enterprise specialist   I        I
seminars.             Railway specialist        I             I
Supervision of the    Shipping and port specialist  I
labor-based pilot     Civil aviation specialist  0.5
operation.            Road engineer             I             I
Urban specialist          0.5
1995      Revievw of progress.  Transport economist       6             3
Mission 2  Procurement.          Financial analyst         I             I
Participation in      Public enterprise specialist   I        I
seminr.               Railway specialist        0.5
Supervision of the    Shipping and port specialist  1         I
labor-based pilot     Civil aviation specialist  0.5          1
operation.            Road engineer             I             I
Urban specialist         0.5           1
1995      Review ofprogress.    Transport economist       6             3
Mission 3  Procurement.          Financial analyst         I             1
Participation in      Public enterprise specialist   1        1
seminars.             Railway specialist        2             1
Supervision of the    Shipping and port specialist  2         1
labor-based pilot     Civil aviation specialist  1            1
operation.            Road engineer             0.5           1
Urban specialist          1            1



58
Schedule 9
Page 2 of 2
Activity               Skill                             Staff-weeks
Headquarters Mission
1996      Review of progress.     Transport economist         6             3
Mission I  Procurement.           Financial analyst           I              I
Patticipation in       Public enterprise specialist   1           I
semniinars.            Railway specialist
Supervision of the     Shipping and port specialist  2
labor-based pilot      Civil aviation specialist   0.5            1
operation.             Road engineer               0.5
1996      Review of progress.     Transport economist         4             2
Mission 2  Participation in       Financial analyst           I              I
seminars.              Public enterprise specialist   1           1
Supervision of the     Railway specialist          0.5            1
labor-based pilot      Shipping and port specialist  1            1
operation.             Urban specialist            2              2
1996      Review of progress.     Transport economist         3             2
Mission 3                          Financial analyst          0.5
Public enterprise specialist   I          I
Railway specialist         0.5
Shipping and port specialist  0.5
1997      Review of progress.     Transport economist         2              2
Mission I                         Financial analyst           I
Shipping and port specialist  1           1



2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /
''y- 



; IIj,               _                     _                                                                              _       
.C   A   M   E  R  0   0   N
r~~~~~ 1                                                             Eebryn    Bilars             it oss es~ 
EQ AAE Q U A T O R I A LssoN
M               G U I N E A                                                                                   N
(RIO MUNI)                        I           N   .           $    A,,
f.f -i
CQc 0b0OCh%\f MZf---                                o     R    [t                          / ,                                            -  < 
Cop Ehieros         ,      510roluno4590'JMgoou-J
Cop 1sooocsoa.        ; K'Atogfirnoa                                                                  /                 t  ,               C)
ILlSt7EV L                                                         LoI(    g  f  .   U;JA
c)YIA     5k                                                )                                                                             t
L~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Lo.
0'~~~~ j*loss   ., m'                                  ,,    AImb                  A yes  .         Sso                                                                                        it .   S e-
Zqp~~oba.o;ntEW                    LaoskorrAl      i      7   .    > -'.~                    1                                                           &s,y1 ga 
(CONGO
OG       O  C7O   U   C Yf.;        Posgamost<                                                      K       D  UO    >        1f                   EAsissi
Mpndll ~         ~          Mios                          Pa o                do $It7 I[~                                *,
r                         MAR I / r . M f                                                                                                      s i a I  F  n
siRc*ere &     5[obombaM                                                                       /\ 
tDN7in  A R I  tr Af )/ 
Demoa- do
CSette    dC .e          .        Mounno        Th^d /               ,,. -
spG Cornsi.4   ' ,          !      m
=dc G %    .r
Ch...e de Com,bo                  Terbarrga
/N                              A <   S In r tocwoso9                                GABON
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL
M.Y-6,,0i'A                                                                  ASSISTANCE PROJECT
r> \. (1
f. mrp,y Roads                               RIrers
Roast' Pri-c;pofes                           R-e,eros
/                                  Other Roads                                  Swonps
Atuses Routes                                Macro,s
NOEP A                         IRA_                                                                                  RaIlroads. Coorplfr'tr                       Secsonoaiy hisrndosed Areas
CirjEo               AFRI 'CAN.                                                                                C e-n Do Fer, Achrers                       RegarnS lssondobles En Sofsors
I   REPuBC                                                                                      CLbioway                                   Forest Reserves ond Nataoncl Parks
(5MEFi5OS,               (        ,                                                                         FueicuR.frr.                                 Reser-es Forestiers Et Par-s Noaionous
-r <                                                                                       I-  X    Ritritm oiosot Aspossi              Regopo Capistls
-Guri(Jr^i$z+t  1__  tf                                                                               X   Ari,soport tsteo,,ro/iCl  CapColes Regrmaafes
Ct  b'-j           f,llo Gi.fJ + )ths, Aisosris                                                                                                   p   9Natianaf Capitsa
KCONGOt                                                                                        P~tuseArorrsNlo
Pa' Ports                                   _     Fronfiores Rerooai"es
r                                                                               ,                                                                                   KoMrso, pJ9 p,tG , ,GIdG'Trno 'rrlrntrtonlSoundesrLes
A                    e~~~~~~RtOM"srISm  a    2p   'po   p,  BP  ry   re ry 0,                     T--roreo  Pois-l-s                          Ffonrtirero  Natasafes,
r A' I           MIFLES b c    o       t        SO  do so        r6D
5            _showXt_n onehtsl mr;   n*treagpjtt eaOheptton*v                                 Pattncth;sS
_   _      _                       _        _       _        _ ,__                                                     ___C                                                                        00o  ,   \ I
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~~~1   C_         t,                                                                 1,5 A



