Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20726
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(37770; 3777A; 3777S; P2400)
ON A
IBRD LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.2 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GABON
FOR THE
TRANSPORT SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
August 14, 2000
Transport 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)
Currency Unit = CFA Francs BEAC (XAF)
IXAF = US$ 0.0015
US$ 1 = 681.73
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Robert Calderisi
Sector Manager/Director:    Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Andreas Schliessler



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 14
6. Sustainability                                                                     16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      18
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   21
9. Partner Comments                                                                   22
10. Additional Information                                                           23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed wiflwout
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P035595                                      Project Name: TRANSPORT SECTOR TA
Team Leader: Andreas Schliessler                         TL Unit: AFTT2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: August 14, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: TRANSPORT SECTOR TA                           LIC/TF Number: 37770; 3777A; 3777S;
P2400
Country/Department: GABON                                               Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: TU - Urban Transport; UU - Urban Development
Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 08/18/93                                 Effective: 06/23/95          06/23/95
Appraisal:  03/06/94                                 MTR:                       02/10/96
Approval:  07/07/94                               Closing: 09/30/97            03/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MIN.OF PLANNING
Other Partners: AfD - Agence Francaise de Developpement
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager:     Serge Michailof                           Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:      Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard               Alberto Harth
Team Leader at ICR:   Andreas Schliessler                     Jean-Noel Guillossou
ICR Primary Author:   Robert Fishbein; Andreas
Schliessler
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives as stated in the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President were
five-fold: (a) strengthen the institutional management capacity in the Borrower's transport and



urban sectors; (b) establish a transport sector strategy and an investment plan, including the
promotion of improved sector efficiency, increased competition, reduction of transport costs and
the decrease in subsidies to public enterprises in the transport sector; (c) prepare the urban sector
restructuring plan; (d) establish an urban sector development strategy and investment plan aimed
at improving urban investment planning, urban budgeting, management of existing infrastructure
in Libreville and urban land tenure system; and (e) execute an urban infrastructure improvement
program in Libreville using labor-based methods.
The project was conceived as an integral part of the Government's overall macroeconomic
strategy following the adjustment of the CFA franc. This strategy focused on reducing,
rationalizing and improving the efficiency of the public sector, while promoting privatization and
increasing competitiveness in the economy. In addition to supporting the Government's
macroeconomic policies, the project aimed to strengthen a broad range of capacities in the urban
and transport sectors by encouraging wide participation of Government, public sector entities, the
private sector and the international donor community in setting the sector strategies.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project objective remained valid and unchanged during its entire length. However,
the name of the project was changed from Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project
(PATRANS) to Project for the Adjustment and Planning of the Urban and Transport Sectors
(PAPSUT) to reflect its intervention and strategic goals in both the transport and urban sectors.
3.3 Original Components:
The project as defined in the Memorandum had the following major components:
-Setting Sector Strategies
-Support to the Transport Sector
-Support to the Urban Sector
-Technical Assistance, Training and Seminars
Setting Sector Strategies. Strategies for the transport and urban sectors were to be set through a
series of studies and participatory seminars. At the beginning of the project, the seminars would
combine brainstorming and training. The outcome would be a set of recommendations that should
either reinforce the activities proposed in the project or lead to their reorientation. During project
implementation, seminars would discuss the recommendations of specific studies (see transport
and urban components below) and prepare sector strategies to be incorporated in two separate
Govermnent policy declarations, for the transport and urban sectors, to be presented at the end of
the project.
Support to the Transport Sector. This component provided for: (a) institutional support; and
(b) a series of studies and participatory seminars on specific subsectors which would provide input
to the formulation of the strategy and investment programs in the following subsectors: (i)
railways; (ii) transit and maritime transport; (iii) river transport and inland shipping; (iv) civil
aviation; (v) road infrastructure; (vi) road transport; (vii) the environment. Institutional support
- 2 -



would, through studies and targeted technical assistance, assist the Government to analyze the
role of ministries, revise sector regulations, set up human resource management systems and train
ministry personnel in planning, programming and identifying ways to improve sector performance.
Support to the Urban Sector. This component aimed at making urban development priorities an
integral part of the national macroeconomic and budget decision making process; identifying
institutional, financial and technical measures for improving urban management, particularly in
Libreville; strengthening the oversight of the ministry's capacity to manage sector studies; and
preparing an urban infrastructure investment program. This would be accomplished through: (a)
institutional support, including focused technical assistance, round table conferences and
discussions; (b) four urban sector studies on: (i) urban investment strategy; (ii) municipal finance
and management; (iii) infrastructure management in Libreville; and (iv) urban land management;
(c) a pilot employment creation operation to assess the feasibility of rehabilitation of urban
infrastructure using labor-intensive methods; and (d) assessment of environmental conditions and
guidelines for mitigation measures.
Technical Assistance, Training and Seminars. The above components would be implemented
with the support of targeted short term technical assistance, consulting services, seminars and
training. A total of 27 studies and thirteen seminars were initially identified in the transport and
urban sectors. The studies would be carried out during the first period of project execution before
the mid-term review. Further studies to be carried out after the mid-term review would prepare
for decisions related to the restructuring on transport sector enterprises, and their terms of
reference would be prepared during project execution.
3.4 Revised Components:
Mid-term review. The basic components described above remained the same throughout the
project life. However, at the mid-term review, it was determined that the original structure of the
studies and support activities was too complex and needed more focus to achieve the basic
objective of defining sector strategies and investment plans. Accordingly, the programs for both
the transport and urban sectors were simplified, consolidated and focused. These changes were
documented in the Aide Memoire of April 11, 1996 and are briefly described below.
Refocused Transport Sector Support. The total number of studies was reduced and
consolidated. It was decided to add an Inter-modal Transport Master Plan, which would integrate
the results of the individual sub-sectoral studies. The Inter-modal Transport Master Plan would
provide an objective basis for: (i) modernizing and rationalizing management of the transport
sector; (ii) screening and prioritizing investments in the various sub-sectors; and (ii) preparing
specific project dossiers and cost estimates which would form part of the proposed investment
plan.
Refocused Urban Sector Support. Rather than carry out four separate studies, it was decided to
provide support to the development of the urban sector strategy through a single contract with a
qualified consulting firm, to be implemented in two phases. The first phase would provide a
diagnostic of the urban situation, validated through a national seminar. The output of the first
-3 -



phase would include an analysis of (i) the macroeconomic setting; (ii) municipal finance; (iii) the
relative roles of the central government, municipalities and the private sector; (iv) an initial
estimate of financing needs and sources; and (v) an estimate of the volume of works that could be
carried out by an implementation agency based on the AGETIP model. The second phase would
involve more detailed studies, as envisioned in the original component design, and would result in
specific action plans and priority public investments.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Relevance to CAS. The project objective was, and remains, directly relevant to the country's
unique resource endowments, its macro-economic reform program and the Bank's assistance
strategy. In particular, because of Gabon's natural resource wealth and relative financial
independence, the strategic role of the Bank has been less to provide investment resources and
more to support the development of appropriate policies and strategies to effectively implement
structural reforms. In this, the project design capitalized on the Bank's capacity to bring expertise,
coordinate donors and other international stakeholders, and assist in efforts to mobilize support
for the badly needed reforms in these two sectors.
Project design. The original project design, which included a large number of sub-sector studies,
soon turned out to be too complex. Furthermore, it did not explicitly provide for the overall
integration of individual sub-sector and thematic studies into overall sector strategies and
investment plans. This problem was addressed at the mid-term review, when the studies in both
sectors were consolidated and refocused.
Project start-up and logistical arrangements. It was assumed that the government would
provide for all the logistical support, including the establishment of a coordination office. This did
not happen in the early stages, and the project lost much time in actually getting started. In
addition, the Project Coordinator was totally unfamiliar with Bank procedures. Eventually, the
Project Coordinator took the initiative to establish an office outside the government buildings,
virtually at his own expense. Counterpart funding has been sluggish and became a chronic
problem after 1998.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Objective (a): Strengthen the institutional management capacity in the Borrower's
transport and urban sectors. This objective has been largely achieved on a number of fronts.
First, a transfer of knowledge and methodologies has occurred through the collaboration of the
various consultants with concerned ministries, municipalities and NGOs. Second, a number of
institutional mechanisms for more rational sector planning and management have been put in
place. These include the PAPSUT Steering Committee, the sub-sector working groups, the
Follow-up Committee for the Inter-modal Transport Master Plan (CIST) and the Inter-ministerial
Orientation for the follow-up of the Urban Sector Strategy (COS). Third, the participatory
processes introduced by the PAPSUT has set in motion a dynamic of inter-ministerial cooperation
that never existed in the past. The Transport Sector Roundtable in July 1998 was hailed as the
- 4 -



first formal donor coordination mechanism led by the authorities, and it is hoped that this will lead
to similar roundtables in other sectors (see Memorandum of the President of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development to the Executive Directors on a Country Assistance
Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Gabonese Republic, September 22, 1998, p. 18.) Even
though the formal training program that was planned as part of the project has only been partially
accomplished, it is generally acknowledged that the project has exposed the various actors in the
two sectors to new approaches and organizational tools; and much "learning by doing" has been
achieved. The continued participation in the transport and urban sectors of the professionals
involved should improve the efficiency of each sector in the future.
While the studies and sector strategies financed by the project define specific institutional reform
measures to strengthen the management capacity in these sectors, the extent to which these
measures will actually be taken remains to be seen. At the time of the ICR preparation, for
example, there are no concrete plans in the ministries of Equipment and Construction (MEC) nor
the Ministry of Transport to carry out the reorganization or training studies specified in the
Inter-modal Transport Master Plan. Also, there is little movement towards establishing an
independent funding mechanism for road maintenance, even though this was one of the important
policy measures identified (the latter issue has been previously discussed with the Directorate of
Roads, who repeatedly expressed hostility to the idea).
Finally, environmental assessment guidelines were not developed as planned for the transport or
the urban sectors. For the transport sector, the difficulties in arriving at a consensus for sector
management and fmance were in themselves so politically-charged and overwhelming, that
environmental dimensions took on minor importance. With respect to the urban sector, a similar
situation existed, however, urban environmental investments, such as potable water supply and
sanitation, form a part of the proposed action plan and strategy.
Objective (b): Establish a transport sector strategy and an investment plan, including the
promotion of improved sector efficiency, increased competition, reduction of transport
costs and the decrease in subsidies to public enterprises in the transport sector. This
objective was fully achieved, with the successful completion of the various modal studies, the
organizational studies on the technical ministries, the Inter-modal Transport Master Plan
(1998-2015), and the Government's Declaration of Transport Policy (adopted 15 April 1998), all
of which were presented to the Donors Roundtable in July 1998.
Objective (c): Prepare the urban sector restructuring plan. This objective can be considered
as largely achieved. The relevant subsector studies and the overall strategy document was
completed in March 2000. It will be submitted and vetted by an inter-ministerial committee,
including the municipalities, in July 2000. A national seminar on the final strategy and policy
declaration, which will include civil society and the donors, will be held in October 2000.
Objective (d): Establish an urban sector development strategy and investment plan aimed
at improving urban investment planning, urban budgeting, management of existing
infrastructure in Libreville and urban land tenure system. This objective can also be
considered largely achieved, for the same reasons which are stated for Objective (c).
- 5 -



Objective (e): Execute an urban infrastructure improvement program in Libreville using
labor-based methods. This objective has been fully achieved. The physical works of this pilot
project have been completed. It is clear that the works are a major improvement in living
conditions for the residents of the district of Avea, which is the location of the physical works. As
a pilot operation, this activity is considered a success by the Government and it has provided
valuable experience and lessons learned for the design of the Bank-financed follow-on project
(PROTOTIPPEE), which has become effective in early 2000.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Setting Sector StrategiesA strategy and investment program for the transport sector has been
completed and is articulated in the Inter-modal Transport Master Plan (1998-2015) and the
Declaration of the National Transport Policy, adopted by the Government in April 1998. An initial
draft strategy and investment program for the urban sector has been elaborated. It is currently
being synthesized and, together with the Urban Development Policy Declaration is expected to be
adopted by June 2000. Both strategies (transport and urban) have been carried out through the
participation of working groups, subsector seminars, and validated through national sector
workshops.
Support to the Transport Sector
Modal and institutional reform studies. Following the mid-term review of the project, the
original list of studies was consolidated and reduced from more than twenty to nine; these are
listed below. Two other studies concerning the privatization of SNAT and CNI were transferred
to the Privatization Secretariat.:
(a) Inter-modal Transport Master Plan (1998-2015), TECSULT - Canada
(b) Institutional Support to the Govt. Ministries related to the transport sector, BCEOM -
France
(c) International Transport Chain, SNG/BCEOM - Gabon - France
(d) Urban Transport Development, SYSTRA/SNGE - France/Gabon
(e) Support to the Development of Airports and Civil Aviation, TECSULT - Canada
(f) Development of a Air Transport Policy, GIBB - Great Britain
(g) Support to the Ports and Maritime Development, TERJSNGE - France/Gabon
(h) Road Transport and the Road Network, TECSULT - Canada
(i) Concessioning of OCTRA, MERCER/BNP - Great Britain-France (CFD co-financing).
In general, the studies are considered of high quality and well-executed. The Government has
noted the particularly high quality of studies (b), (d), (e), (f) and (g). The consultant managing the
Inter-modal Transport Master Plan encountered numerous difficulties in carrying out the work,
both internal and external, which led to delays of about one year in the completion of the final
output. With assistance from the transport sector facilitator, other consultants and the transport
coordinator, the consultant was finally able to produce the high-quality Inter-modal Transport
Master Plan (1998-2015) presented to the Transport Sector Roundtable in July 1998.
- 6 -



Preparation and adoption of the transport sector strategy. The preparation of the national
transport strategy began with an initial workshop, which defined the major macroeconomic issues
and objectives, and the outputs of the various modal studies, which themselves included subsector
workshops. These results were discussed at a second national workshop in April 1997, which led
to the drafting of the Government's Declaration of Transport Policy in January 1998, and its
formal adoption by the Council of Ministers on April 15, 1998. This declaration is fully consistent
with the elements of the Inter-modal Transport Master Plan, and embraces the basic principals of
inter-modal planning, rational programming and economic justification for investments. It also
reaffirms the disengagement of the Government in public enterprises and reinforces its role as
regulator and protector of consumer interests.
Inter-modal Transport Sector Master Plan (1998-2015). The production of this plan is
considered to be the crowning achievement of a long process that involved a wide range of
independent modal studies. The Master Plan successfully integrates the subsector action plans into
a coherent set of complementary actions and investments, accompanied by appropriate policy
reforms. The project was able to achieve consensus among a broad spectrum of stakeholders in
defining the strategy and presenting it to the donors. A Synthesis of the Master Plan was
produced by PAPSUT in October 1998, which provides a concise version of the principal
measures and investments to be undertaken during the initial plan period, 1998-2005.
Privatization of the Trans-Gabon Railway Company. The major achievement in this area was
the successful concessioning of the Trans-Gabon Railway Company (OCTRA). The PAPSUT was
responsible for the launching, overseeing and facilitating the process, which included preparation
of feasibility studies, social plans, the main concessioning contract and bidding documents. At that
point, the Privatization Secretariat (Finance Ministry, with representation from the ministries
including Transport) assumed responsibility, with input in the end from the Presidency,
COMILOG and its major shareholder, ERAMET. The Bank continued to play a key facilitation
role throughout. Delays were experienced due to organizational weaknesses of the consultant, as
well as the inexperience of the new Privatization Secretariat, which was put in place after the
commencement of PAPSUT. The concession agreement for the railway was signed in July 1999,
and the concessionnaire TRANSGABONAIS (TG) officially took control of operations on
December 28, 1999. This will very likely improve the efficiency of these transport services
However, it has also been noted that there have been no corresponding actions on regulatory
capacities in the railway sector, in particular the follow-up of the conditions of the concessioning
contract.
Other privatization/restructuring. With the Bank's agreement, responsibility for other
privatization operations was transferred to the Government's Privatization Secretariat. The
privatization and restructuring activities for the Port Authority (OPRAG) and the National
Forwarding Company (SNAT) are in process, through studies financed through the ongoing
Bank-financed privatization project. By December 31, 2000, the Privatization Secretariat aims to
complete the privatization strategy for the Ports and sell the State's participation in SNAT. Initial
audits and studies for the privatization/restructuring of Air Gabon have been completed by
Lufthansa consultants and are currently in the Prime Minister's office. Other
-7 -



privatization/restructuring activities include the National Shipping Line (SONATRAM, liquidation
in process); Inland Navigation Company (CNI, project is dormant, since the company has no
functioning equipment and actual operations); and the Urban Transit Company (SOGATRA,
ceased operations because of breakdown of almost entire fleet of 80 buses). In the case of the
latter, it should be noted that the creation of SOGATRA and its procurement of a fleet of buses
was in direct contradiction with the recommendations made in the institutional study for urban
transport, and against the repeated advice of Bank staff.
Support to the Urban Sector
Urban sector studies and Urban Strategy. At the time of the mid-term review of the. project it
was decided to consolidate the four original urban sector studies into a single consultant contract,
divided into two phases. However, the work done by the consultant which had been selected was
deemed inadequate (too general) by both PAPSUT and the Bank, and the contract was
subsequently annulled. The project staff then decided to re-establish a series of individual targeted
studies on specific issues, which would then be integrated into a sector strategy, similar to the
successful process engaged in the transport sector. The revised studies were successfully
implemented by a mix of specialized individual consultants and consulting firms, and included the
following:
(a) Urban Sanitation and Environment, AGNAME
(b) Urban Access and Movement, TRANSITEC
(c) Recovery of social and commercial infrastructure, URBAZIMBA
(d) Urban Extensions, NICOLAS
(e) Evolving Roles of the Public Sector in Urban Management, ONDO
(f) Urban Macroeconomic Framework, BARBIER
(g) Urban Environment and Peri-urban Agriculture, IAGU
(h) Harmonization of the Action Plans, BARBIER
(i) Organization of the Urban Network, OKANGA
(j) Action Plan for the Public Sector, URBASUISSE
Study (f) was used to integrate all the revised studies, including the original diagnostic, into a
draft Urban Strategy and investment plan in September 1999. This strategy, which includes
PROTOTIPPEE as one element, was discussed at a joint interministerial/municipality workshop in
October 1999. At that time, additional studies were proposed to complete the strategy (in
response to expressed needs of the participants):
(k) Housing Strategy, ARNAUD
(1) Strategy for Infrastructure Management, ICEA
(m) Strategy for Implementation of Decentralization, RCP-2A
(n) Pilot Study for Establishment of Urban Parcels, OLAVARRIETA
(o) Integration of Additional Studies and Finalization of the Urban Strategy and Policy
Declaration
-8 -



Studies (k), (1), (mi) and (n) were finalized at the end of February 2000. These last elements were
integrated into the final Urban Strategy and a draft Policy Declaration, which was completed in
March 2000. A joint inter-ministeriallmunicipality meeting will be held in July 2000 to finalize and
adopt the national Urban Strategy and Policy Declaration. This will be followed by a national
seminar on the subject in October 2000.
Labor-based pilot operation. This operation aimed to test an approach for targeted urban
infrastructure improvements through labor-intensive methods and local planning and execution. A
second objective was to create a municipal capacity to manage these types of works. It's physical
output was the paving (using paving stones) of 1.6 kilometers of urban roads, accompanied by
drainage structures, sidewalks, intersections, waste collection points and tree-planting. The pilot
operation   was  implemented  through   a   newly-created   Unit  for  Monitoring
Employment-Generating Urban Works, within the Municipality of Libreville. An NGO was
engaged to provide social planning and community participation. This operation generated
employment of 37,505 person-days.
Of the 3.1 kilometers which were originally planned, 1,6 km were actually executed, albeit with
some delays. The difficulties encountered (failure of 2 out of 7 contractors, delays in
implementation, the need to carry out numerous works which were not included in the original
plan, cost overruns and supervision problems) have been attributed to (i) the novel approach
which had so far not been tried in Gabon; and (ii) the limited physical and/or managerial capacity
of the local small and medium enterprises.
A visual inspection of the site in February 2000, at the occasion of the ICR preparation, indicated
that the paving stones are holding up well. There is however a clear need for routine maintenance
of the drains, which should be organized by the Municipality. Unfortunately, all the staff of the
municipality which were involved in this operation have by now left their jobs there, following the
election of a new Mayor, so there is little or no institutional memory at the municipality. The pilot
project did however prove the technical feasibility of the paving stones approach and has shown
that with training, there is a local SME capacity to carry out the works. Fortunately an
institutional memory will continue through PAPSUT and the PROTOTIPPEE. The relatively high
cost of the works (FCFA 500 million) is of some concern, however, it seems to be characteristic
of construction costs in Gabon, which has relatively high labor and material costs. During
PROTOTIPPEE, it would be useful to assess to what extent economies of scale could be
achieved in a larger-scale operation.
-9-



Technical Assistance, Seminars and Training
Transfer of knowledge. A good deal of knowledge transfer has occurred during the project,
through the interaction of numerous Gabonese Nationals with the consultants and the transport
facilitator working with the coordination unit and on the various subsector studies. While the
amount of knowledge transferred is difficult to quantify, it was mentioned by several members of
the government and the coordination unit as a significant benefit of the project.
Facilitators. Facilitators were engaged to provide occasional short-term assistance to the project'
s Transport and Urban Sector Coordinators, during the entire length of the project. In the case of
the transport sector, the facilitator proved invaluable in assisting the Government to pilot and
assemble the various studies and integrate them into a coherent national master plan. In the case
of the urban sector, initial support was less consistent in terms of time and inputs. In the later
stage of the project, a new urban facilitator was helpful in getting the revised set of studies
defined and accomplished, but stayed with the project for only a limited period of time. Currently,
in the very final phase of the project, one of the individual consultants is assisting the project unit
to integrate the studies and elaborate the urban strategy and policy declaration. Overall, the
concept of using seasoned professionals as facilitators proved to be good, especially if their
short-term input is provided on a regular basis from the beginning until the achievement of the
process.
Workshops and thematic seminars. A fundamental approach to strategy development has been
to engage the concerned stakeholders through the creation of working groups on specific issues
and the building of consensus through workshops and thematic seminars. This is repeatedly cited
by stakeholders in Gabon as one of the main benefits of the project. Many of the working group
activities involved meetings and informal workshops with the consultants. The following table lists
the formally-organized workshops.
- 10 -



List of Workshops and Thematic Seminars
Date         Title                                      Place         No. of
participant
s
19/12/96     Presentation of Intermodal Transport Master Plan  Libreville  100
13-14/1/97    Seminar on the Concept of AGETIP /        Libreville         80
PROTOTIPPEE (Seminar of N'Toum)
15/1/97      Seminar on the Development of Ports and    Libreville         65
Waterways in Gabon
15-22/l/97    Seminar on Origin-Destination Study organized    Libreville  30
by SYSTRA and SNGE
30/1/97      Seminar on Institutional Support to the Technical  Libreville  70
Ministries
17/2/97      Seminar on the International Transport Chain  Libreville      77
20-21/2/97    First national Workshop on the Urban Strategy    Libreville  170
26/2/97      Assessment of Intermodal Transport Master Plan  Libreville    56
5/3/97       Seminar on Urban Transport in Gabon        Libreville         30
25/3/97      Mini-seminar on Airports and Civil Aviation  Libreville       70
3-4/4/97     Second National Workshop on the Urban      Libreville        142
Strategy
18/4/97      Seminar on Aviation and Airport Systems Policies Libreville   45
22-23/4/97    Workshop on the Intermodal Transport Master    Libreville   120
Plan
28/4/97      Seminar on Strategy of Development of Urban  Libreville      120
Transport
9-10/6/97    Brainstorming Session on the Urban Strategy  Libreville        ?
Declaration
15-16/9/97    Seminar to Finalize Transport Policy Declaration   Port Gentil  30
18-19/9/97    Seminar to Present Transport Policy Declaration   Libreville  50
27/1/98      Seminar to Assess Transport Policy in Gabon  Libreville       40
16-17/7/98    Round Table Conference with Donors on the  Paris            42
Intermodal Transport Master Plan
19-20/1/99    Seminar to Present the Draft Urban Strategy of    Libreville
Gabon
30/11/99     Seminar to Disseminate the Strategy for the  Libreville      100
Intermodal Transport Master Plan
- 11 -



Training. Because of the intensity of the other project activities, the organization and
implementation of formal training activities has tended to be put on the back burner by the
Steering Committee. In spite of the fact that a training program was defined, which amounted to
FCFA 180 million for 50 trainees, only about 25 percent of the program was actually
implemented, in part due to a lack of local counterpart funds (50 percent of training costs were to
be covered by local counterpart funds). The table below summarizes the training activities actually
carried out.
Training and Study Tours
Date        Title                                       Place         No. of
participants
3-6/11/95    Study tour to AGETUR (Benin) on Urban Works  Cotonou          2
15-26/7/96   Course  on  Infrastructure  Project Financial Washingto
Analysis and Management                    n
20/11/96    Course on Concessioning of Railways         London             2
20-19/ /96    Studies for Transport Projects           Abidjan             2
4-9/ /97    Seminar on Airport Concessioning - US Civil   Banjul           2
Aviation
11-16/ /97    Seminar on Airport Concessioning - US Civil Abidjan          1
Aviation
13-14/9/97   Course on Concessioning of Railways in Africa    Abidjan      1
1997        AFRICATIP - Urban works management training  Banjul            2
19-20/11/97  Preparation course on Labor-based Works   Port Gentil
23-25/11/97  Preparation course on Labor-based Works    Franceville
26-31/1/98   AfricaCities:  Awareness,  Information  and Abidjan          11
Training   on   Decentralization  for  Local
Communities (11 Mayors)
4-6/11/98    Seminar on Road Financing                  Paris              2
Formation sur la methode de planification
participative (MARP)
12-13/4/99   Training  Seminar  on  Administration  and Abidjan            2
Accounting for Projects Financed by Intemational
Donors
17/6-13/7/99  English Language Training                Chicago             1
27/6-4/7/99  Training  Seminar on  Financing  Equipment, Paris             1
Maintenance and Training
25/6-12/7/98  Training in MARP Methodology             Libreville
12-25/7/99   Workshop on Performance Indicators        Abidjan             1
12-25/8/99   Workshop on ZOPP (Planning by Objectives)  Port Gentil       30
- 12 -



14-17/9/99   Workshop on ZOPP for Mayors on drainage     Port Gentil        30
Training  Seminar on  Environmental Impact Paris                1
Analysis
AdB training course on Contracting          Libreville          2
Economic and Financial Analysis of Projects Libreville          1
(European Union)
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Transport Sector
A common reference point. In Gabon, the Government's Transport Sector Policy Declaration
and the Inter-modal Transport Plan is recognized as the prime reference point for rational
transport planning and all investment decisions in the future. The impact of this has already been
felt following the Paris Roundtable Meeting in July 1998, with concrete expressions of interest by
the Kuwaiti Fund, the Islamic Development Bank and the European Investment Bank for
investments in the airport, aviation and port subsectors. Under PAPSUT, a final design study was
carried out for the inter-modal road/rail station at Melen and East Bypass of Libreville. This is a
clear example of the type of attractive investment that emerged from the Inter-modal Transport
Master Plan. Other actions consistent with the National Transport Plan include the concessioning
of the National Railway and privatization processes underway for SNAT and OPRAG in the ports
sector.
Introduction of planning methods and economic criteria. A second institutional development
impact is the introduction of multi-modal planning methodologies and the use of economic criteria
for selection of transport investments. Although the value of this approach is acknowledged and
accepted in principle by all the concerned ministries, in reality there have already been several
deviations from this basic approach: (i) the MEC has sought to sidetrack the basic list for road
investments, (ii) the creation by the Government of SOGATRA and the realted purchase of 80
buses ran counter to the basic recommendations of the urban transport study, (iii) the purchase by
the Government of tugboats for the port of Owendo, and (iv) the purchase of passenger trains by
OCTRA during the privatization process. However, it is also acknowledged that existence of the
Master Plan and the Policy Declaration means that these types of actions which are inconsistent
with both cannot be undertaken in the future without being seriously questioned. The implication
is that even if the Master Plan and its principles are not yet completely assimilated, they have at
least established a commonly accepted framework for this to progressively happen.
- 13 -



Institutional mechanism for sector planning. The creation of the Inter-ministerial Committee
for Follow-up of the Inter-modal Transport Master Plan (CIST) provides an institutional
framework for translating the Master Plan and Policy Declaration into action. This committee
however, was officially established only in November 1999, and it is too soon to tell what its
impact will be.
Urban Sector
A framework for consultation and collaboration. The Urban Sector Strategy lays out a
strategic vision and formula for the progressive redefinition of roles and for the reconciliation of
differences of the major institutions concerned, namely the Ministry of Urbanism, Ministry of
Interior and the Municipalities. The approach has been to define a series of "win-win" actions that
will reinforce the roles of each partner and respond to the service needs of the urban population.
This will be done in the context of a gradual introduction of targeted urban improvement
programs, which will be rooted in the practical application of the government's decentralization
program. Despite a series of "false starts" in the past (notably the difficulty in getting the Ministry
of Urbanism to participate), the basic elements of this strategy have finally been reviewed and are
accepted by the principal parties. With the momentum for decentralization picking up, the
PAPSUT is attempting to capitalize on the interest of the major parties concerned (Ministries of
Urbanism, Interior and Equipment, as well as the municipalities) to show concrete results for
urban improvement. The establishment of a forum, or platform for mutual collaboration will be
another PAPSUT "first" in creating institutional mechanisms for formulating and implementing
sector strategies.
Loss of institutional memory for municipal infrastructure development. The institutional
impact of the pilot operation for urban works has been limited, because the principal implementors
in the Municipality of Libreville left their posts following the election of a new mayor. However,
the operation itself stands as a model and source of information for the Bank-financed follow-on
urban development project (PROTOTIPPEE).
Institutional framework for sector planning. The creation of the Inter-ministerial Orientation
and Follow-up Committee for the Urban Strategy (C.O.S.) provides an institutional framework
for translating the Urban Strategy into action. As with the CIST, this committee however, was
officially established only in November 1999, and it is too soon to tell what its impact will be.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Fiscal crisis. During FY99, Gabon was confronted by the largest fiscal crisis in its history due to
the drop in oil and timber prices, which are its key exports. Compounding this problem was fiscal
mis-management through high levels of extra-budgetary spending. This had a negative impact
mainly because of the resulting shortage of local counterpart funds. To address this situation, the
Bank agreed to increase the disbursement percentages to allow for 100 percent financing of
certain categories of expenses, retroactive to April 1, 1999 (see also Counterpart funding and
- 14 -



Government fiscal management below).
Inconsistent quality of consultants. The poor performance of some of the consulting firms led
to delays in completing the studies and rendered more difficult an already challenging task of
bringing together a broad spectrum of stakeholders for policy and strategy development.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Counterpart funding. Project effectiveness and actual start-up was delayed for over a year, due
to: (i) the non-allocation of counterpart funding; and (ii) the failure of the Project Steering
Committee to establish the basic project logistics and institutional support. These problems cannot
be attributed to fiscal difficulties, since they occurred long before the general fiscal crisis of FY
99, at a time of strong fiscal performance. Throughout the life of the project, delayed and
sometimes insufficient allocation of counterpart funding affected to some degree the efficiency of
project implementation, and at times brought into question the Government's commitment to the
project. Counterpart funding continues to be a chronic problem in Gabon, as evidenced by the
15-month delay in effectiveness of PROTOTIPPEE due to the same problem.
Fiscal management and public investment climate. Since the Paris roundtable meeting with
donors, the government has failed to successfully implement reforms which had been agreed with
the IMF, including key audits of internal debt, public finance and management, regulatory reforms
and privatization. This has also led to a freeze in European Union programs. In addition, its failure
to honor debts with the African Development Bank (AfDB) has led to a freeze on AfDB
investments. The cumulative effect of this situation is an unfavorable climate for investment and
the implementation of the transport and urban sector master plans.
Commitment to public service reform. While there is a verbal agreement by the Government
officials on the need for reform, the institutional reforms called for in the Inter-modal Transport
Master Plan will only occur if there is additional prodding through the CIST and other endeavors.
In this connection, the existence of an Inter-ministerial Committee for Administrative Reform
(CIRA) and the Bank Project in Support of Privatization provide complementary institutional
frameworks within which the recommended reforms can be pursued.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project management by coordination office. Despite the funding and initial logistical problems,
the PAPSUT office was generally run with dedication and in a professional manner. Compliments
and praise have consistently been expressed by Govermment, municipal officials, donors and
consultants. Additionally, despite the shortcomings of some of the consultants, the technical
coordinators of the PAPSUT Unit for both the urban and transport sectors proved capable, with
assistance from the facilitators, to rectify the situation and pilot the revised studies and activities
to their successful conclusion.
Project coordination and oversight by Ministry of Plan. Once nominated, the General
Commissioner of Planning and Development, who is also the Chairman of the Project Steering
Committee, played an effective role in coordinating and arbitrating among the various technical
- 15 -



ministries. The General Commissioner exercised leadership in achieving a consensus on the
Inter-modal Transport Master Plan and the Urban Strategy. He reported regularly to the Minister
of Plan on the progress of the project, who in turn also reminded the various mninistries of their
obligations under the Transport Master Plan. The General Commissioner has also been
instrumental in establishing the Follow-up Committee for the Inter-modal Transport Master Plan
and the Inter-ministerial Orientation and Follow-up Committee for the Urban Strategy. However,
as noted, these committees have yet to accomplish much in terns of concrete follow-up actions.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project has remained the same throughout the project period. The original
Loan Agreement dated October 13, 1994 called for the Loan to finance 75 percent of
expenditures under category 1 (Works); 100 percent of expenditures under category 2 (Goods);
80 percent of expenditures under category 3 (Consultant Services); and 50 percent of
expenditures under categories 4 (Training and Seminars) and 50 percent of category 5
(Incremental Operating Costs). As a result of the government's fiscal crisis in 1999, the Bank
agreed to change the disbursement percentage to 100 percent for categories 3 and 4, with effect
of April 1, 1999. This allowed to continue and complete all consultant work, and to carry out
training and seminars; which would have otherwise been impossible for lack of counterpart funds.
The closing date for the project was extended three times - first by one year to September 1998,
then by another year to September 1999, and finally for six months to March 2000.
Two special accounts were opened. The first one was for all the activities related to sector
strategy development (A); and a second one to finance the labor-based urban works and
supervision costs (B). Following completion of the urban-based pilot project in November 1997,
the Special Account B was not closed and funds were utilized for activities unrelated to the
project. This account was eventually closed and funds were reimbursed upon request from the
Bank.
Non-Bank financing of US$ 1.3 million was envisioned for the urban works program and
consulting services. Urban works co-financing did not materialize. Other co-financing was
however provided by the Caisse Fran,aise de De'veloppement (today Agence Fran,aise de
Developpement) for consulting services related to the concessioning of the railroad. This
amounted to 1.4 million French Francs.
Final disbursement from the Loan Account amounts to US$5.2 million. As per the Loan
Agreement, the counterpart contribution was to be US$3.1 million, or 37.3 percent of total
project costs. Actual total counterpart contribution amounted to 1.05 billion FCFA, or 21.6
percent of total project cost, applying historic exchange rates.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
Government commitment and capacity. The key issue regarding sustainability involves the
- 16 -



commitment and capacity of the Government to follow through on the proposed refolms laid out
in the sector policy declarations and strategies. In theory, the PAPSUT has put the right elements
in place: a National Master Plan and Policy Declaration, established through a participatory
method, and an interministerial committee of the interested parties to follow up the plan. All the
concerned ministers (Transport, Equipment and Construction, Urbanism and Plan) have
reaffirmed their commitment to pursue the declared strategies. One can observe, however, that
while the Government has formally expressed a commitment to the reforms, most of the actors
have in practice not fully assimilated the urgent nature or implications of these reforms. This is
evidenced by several occurrences- during 1999 during which the National Transport Plan was
circumvented or simply ignored. In addition, the technical ministries do not yet have the
institutional mentality or organizational mechanisms to systematically and regularly carry forth
with the recommended actions. On the other hand, it would not be realistic to expect the new
ways of thinking (reflected in the reforms) to be totally assimilated at once, particularly in the
Gabon context. It remains therefore to be seen whether concrete action will be taken, particularly
with respect to certain key reforms, such as ministry restructuring and retraining, road
maintenance financing and privatization. In this regard, one will have to watch the actions of the
follow-up committees over the next year.
Follow-up committees. The fact that the two follow-up committees (CIST and COS) have been
formally created increases the likelihood that the basic reforms and investment principles will
eventually be acted upon. However, the follow-on work of these committees will involve
continuous brokering among the different ministries, annual reviews on programs, budget
allocations and garnering donor support, particularly for institutional reforms. Again, it is
premature to assess whether these committees will be able to carry out this function, but the
limited experience of the CIST suggests that there needs to be an "engine", or executing agency,
behind the higher level committee. The PAPSUT office has played this role so far, and is
identified as a key participant in both follow-up committees. Thus, it has been assumed that
PAPSUT would somehow continue to provide this driving force behind the practical
implementation of the Master Plans. However, following the closure of the loan, there is no
formal commitment for the PAPSUT staff to continue its role of animator and facilitator. There is
therefore a risk that, without the PAPSUT stimulus, the follow-up work could progressively
degrade and fall victim to government inertia.
Institutional arrangements for the municipal labor-based pilot operation. Although the
labor-based pilot operation in the Libreville municipality lost some of its institutional memory
through personnel transfers, the continued intervention of PAPSUT has, and will continue to
ensure that the model established will be replicated through the PROTOTIPPEE
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition through PROTOTIPPEE The above mentioned risk can be somewhat tempered
with the presence of the new PROTOTIPPEE which will enable the offices of the PAPSUT
coordinating unit to remain open under a new project, and at least some of its staff to remain in
place. Assuming that the current Coordinator remains in place, it is not unreasonable to envision
the govermment continuing to utilize the Coordinator, in the name of PAPSUT, as secretary for
the CIST and eventually the COS for a certain period of time. Although this arrangement is likel 
- 17 -



to provide some continuity in the immediate future, it falls outside the current mandate of
PROTOTIPPEE and might require some type of agreement or acknowledgment of this role within
the PROTOTIPPEE structure. In essence, the PAPSUT office is evolving into a kind of executing
agency for the formulation and implementation of sector strategies, under the control of the
government, but physically outside its confines.
Role of Ministry of Plan. It seems that the Ministry of Plan should continue to play a central role
in maintaining the momentum for improved planning and management among the various
ministries. As the organization that vets the annual investment plans, it is well-placed to do this.
However, it does not have the experience in "orchestrating" the coordination of the various
ministries into an integrated sector plan, which is the service that PAPSUT is ably undertaking.
Through PROTOTIPPEE the Bank may wish to consider minimal supplementary support to this
activity during a one or two year period. During this time, PAPSUT support services for the
implementation of the Transport and Urban Master Plans would continue, with a mandate of
gradually transferring its method and approach to a designated coordinator or coordination unit in
the appropriate ministries.
Prognosis for Transport Plan. For the Inter-modal Transport Master Plan, it is clear that there
will need to be continued energy expended to operationalize the CIST and coordinate the efforts
of the various ministries, particularly in respect of the institutional reforms. It is fairly likely that
this will occur, at the very least through the continued personal efforts of the Coordinator, who
will also be attempting to secure government support for basic operations. To fulfill this role,
however, he will also need to replace the transport sector coordinator, who has left the project for
the private sector. Again the question arises whether he can get government and potentially Bank
support for this.
Prognosis for the Urban Strategy. The Urban Strategy is at a critical stage. A number of
positive factors have converged: first, the Ministry of Urbanism is now showing positive interest
in playing a leading role in the strategy; second, the movement towards decentralization is picking
up and therefore the participation of the municipalities is now becoming accepted by the central
government ministries; third, the municipalities themselves have participated in the deliberations
and an association of mayors is being formed. The proposed plan attempts to capitalize on the
interest that all these actors have in showing concrete results. However, there is still a lot of
confidence-building and negotiating that will need to take place, following the presentation of the
final draft strategy and declaration.
Given the above observations, it is likely that the process towards rational sector planning and
implementation begun by PAPSUT will continue, but will depend on the extent to which the
PAPSUT unit and its successor maintain the momentum.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance can be considered satisfactory. At the time of appraisal, the
- 18 -



design of the project fit squarely with the Bank's policies and clearly responded to a national need.
In the Gabon context, the approach promoted by the project was a new idea. The Bank staff were
able to identify reform-minded people, with whom they established the basic approach to
formulating sector strategies, placing strong emphasis on the participatory methods. Despite the
reticence (continued even today) of certain government figures, the Bank staff pursued this
difficult path and should be complimented for staying the course.
On the other hand, although there was a clear vision of overall project objectives, it was not
evident in the original project design and from the original list and structure of the studies to be
undertaken, how the strategies and investrnent plans would actually be assembled. It may have
been assumed that the coordination unit would integrate these studies, but given the complexity of
any sector-wide strategy, this was, in retrospect, unrealistic. The mid-term review in 1996 was the
occasion during which this project design deficiency was remedied, still in time to allow for a
successful completion of the project, albeit with significant delays.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance is also judged satisfactory. When it became clear that the
original design was too complex and needed refocusing, the Bank staff worked diligently with the
government to refocus the program during the mid-term review. The actual program got a late
start due to poor government logistical support and lack of counterpart funding. The Bank staff
also repeatedly brought the borrower back to the basic theme and absolute necessity of the
participatory approach, which, although a foreign concept in Gabon, ultimately brought tangible
results, which are now recognized by the major stakeholders.
The urban strategy continued to drift even after the refocusing of the mid-tern review. This was
due in part to the inadequate performance of the single consulting firm recruited for this task and
the rather sporadic inputs of the facilitator. However, once the urban sector studies were
restructured for a second time in 1999, the Bank was very supportive and gave rapid approvals,
which has resulted in a remarkable output and the successful conclusion of the urban strategy.
The Bank was flexible in responding to the fiscal crisis in Gabon, adjusting the disbursement
percentages for certain expenditure categories. Without this adjustment, project execution would
have come to a halt during 1999. In addition, the Bank showed flexibility and understanding of
local problems by extending the completion date of the project three times, and by permitting the
utilization of project funds for preparatory work related to the new PROTOTIPPEE operation.
Given the circumstances at the beginning of the project and at mid-term review, the time scales
still appear realistic and the extensions reasonable, from the Bank's point of view.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
On balance, the Bank performance can be rated as satisfactory. Although the original project
structure was too complex, the Bank staff eventually worked with the borrower to correct the
situation at mid-term in 1996 and was flexible and responsive in dealing with the shortcomings of
the consultants and the Government. The urban component continued to drift for a time, but the
Bank's strong support of the restructured urban studies enabled the successful accomplishment c;f
- 19 -



these studies within a very tight time period.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in project preparation and startup was marginally satisfactory. As noted,
the design of the project was carried out with the aid of several key officials in the government
who shared the reformist vision. However, this support was not unanimous among all
Government officials involved, and this became evident in the long delays in achieving project
effectiveness and allocating counterpart funds for the operation of the PAPSUT coordination unit.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Implementation performance by the government can also be considered marginally satisfactory.
As stated before, the project startup experienced a delay of over one year because of delays in
providing the necessary counterpart funding, appointing a coordinator and signing the agreement
with the municipality of Libreville for the execution of the pilot labor-based operation. In the early
stages, the government failed to provide appropriate logistic support for the establishment of the
coordination office. It is recalled that if the project coordinator had not used his own private funds
to rent a project office and pay initial operating expenses, the delay in project startup would have
been even longer.
On the other hand, once the project got moving after the mid-term review, implementation
performance of the government improved. In particular, the General Commissioner for Planning
provided credible and strong leadership in the pilot committee. However, getting participation of
the technical ministries has been a continuing challenge, and counterpart funding has repeatedly
been a problem, even before the fiscal crisis of 1999.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementation agency's performance has been highly satisfactory. Much of the success of the
PAPSUT is attributed to the capable leadership of the Coordinator and his dedicated staff.
Despite the lack of government support in the beginning of the project, the Coordinator proved to
be very adaptable and, through personal initiative, established an operational coordination unit for
the project. The unit has developed a method, through trial and error, of slowly building coalitions
through a combination of group and individual working sessions with key people at high and
lower levels, as well as capitalizing on the authority, when necessary, on the Commissioner of
Planning. Reporting to the Bank on implementation progress has however been sporadic.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. Although praise is due to the PAPSUT
coordination unit, the overall Government performance has been inconsistent. While the early
difficulties with logistical and funding support brought into question the Government's
commitment, these problems were eventually overcome and borrower performance steadily
improved.
- 20 -



8. Lessons Learned
The most effective formula for the development of sector strategies and investment plans
was to carry out a limited number of specialized and focused analyses on subsectoral issues,
which are then put together through an integrating sector study. In the case of transport, the
original project design included too many individual studies, without provision for their
subsequent integration. The revision of the urban program on the other hand, was initially too
concentrated and depended solely on the performance of one contractor, who turned out to
perform not very well. In the end, the most effective formula for both sectors was to recruit a
limited number of highly specialized finns or individuals to work on subsector issues, and establish
a separate contract for the integration of the various outputs into an overall strategy and
investment plan. While this required more intensive management, this approach reduces the risk of
poor performance by consultants and actually forced the project staff to be more actively involved
in strategy development.
The participatory approach on the basis of working groups yielded variable results and
required flexibility. Some of the working groups did work very well with a broad-based
participation of professionals, and here the results were absolutely positive. However, in the cases
where the working group for a particular subsector was not functional, the PAPSUT coordination
unit became the effective maitre d'ouvrageof the studies, which in turn reduced the level of direct
participation and ownership of the studies by the concerned ministries and sector professionals
from the private sector. This however could not be avoided, especially where there was not a full
commitment from the relevant minister or his staff (as was the case for the Minister of Urbanism
in the early stages, and the Minister of Equipment later). Despite this, the project persisted with
the individual studies and worked with whomever it could get hold of in the technical ministries or
the private sector on a more ad-hoc basis. This persistence has paid off. For example, there is now
a higher level of interest by the Minister of Urbanism, and the dialog on the urban strategy is
continuing (three meetings were held with the minister and his staff during two weeks in February
2000). The organization of the meeting to validate and adopt the strategy will be orchestrated by
PAPSUT, together with the key ministries, and the several working groups have essentially been
collapsed to one, including key ministries of urbanism, equipment and interior, inclusive of the
municipalities. This scenario of participation is completely different from the one which was
envisioned in the beginning of the project, but is one that has adapted to circumstances.
The participatory approach requires much time and significant resources. This experience is
not new and was reconfirmed once more through this project.
Given the fundamental reforms sought by PAPSUT, it was useful for the coordination unit
to be physically separated and operationally independent from the Government. The
success of PAPSUT can be largely attributed to the fact that it has operated separately from the
day-to-day constraints of the Government. Because of this separation, PAPSUT has been
relatively free to operate as an honest broker among the Government units and to be the driving
force behind the achievement of the two sector strategies and investment plans. By the same
token, getting the full participation from the technical ministries is a continuing challenge. The
Coordinator and his staff have proved adaptive and persistent in establishing lines of
communication individually and collectively among members of the working groups. A majqcr
- 21 -



lesson here is that much depends on the individuals involved, and strategy formulation is more an
art than a science, requiring persistence, diplomacy and flexibility.
Although PAPSUT has shown by example that new ways of thinking are possible, it will
take a long time before these new approaches are fully assimilated. While the PAPSUT has
demonstrated that a national strategy based on economic considerations and inter-ministerial
cooperation is possible, the final outcome depends on the actual implementation of the strategies.
The old ways of decision-making based mainly on political considerations are still very much in
evidence and will probably never disappear completely. However, there are also some
encouraging signs that the process is underway, and continued animation by an agency such as
PAPSUT to promote this would be desirable.
Follow-up actions would be useful. While the project was designed to establish the strategies
and not to implement them, it would have been useful to include in the design a period of
continued support to the coordination of the implementation of the strategy. This is because the
government has really no experience in this type of sectoral coordination. As noted, it is hoped
that this continued support will probably continue through the person of the PAPSUT
Coordinator, thanks to the existence of the PROTOTIPPEE and his personal interest, but it does
fall outside the latter project's mandate.
Policy reform should be accompanied by investment packages. This project focused
exclusively on sector policy and institutional reform, without a major accompanying investment
package. As a result, the Bank has very limited leverage in assuring the long term application of
the policy reforms. An important lesson is that without an accompanying investment program, it is
difficult to maintain a continuing dialogue on sector management, and the policy reforms sought
may not be fully implemented or only partially achieve their full long term impact.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower. The PAPSUT is unanimously considered a success and accomplishment by the
Government. Each of the Ministers consulted (Plan, Transport, Equipment & Construction and
Urbanism) expressed gratitude to the Bank for seeing through this initiative. Numerous officials
cited the participatory process as being a very positive result and a model for other similar
sectoral exercises. Several government officials expressed regret that the PAPSUT has not been
continued. This last comment related essentially to two aspects: (i) financing investments and
institutional reforms identified in the investment program, and (ii) continued coordination of the
follow-up of the Transport and Urban Strategies and action Plans. The Minister of Plan is very
straightforward in stating that it is incumbent on the Bank to help the government follow through
in the implementation of the sector plans.
Implementing agency. In the view of the Coordinator, the successful achievement of PAPSUT
has served a real purpose at this time in Gabon. This relates to the country's need to leam and
apply the basic principles of rational planning, good management and improved governance.
Through its example, PAPSUT has shown that this process can be put in motion in Gabon.
- 22 -



Moreover, he feels that the PAPSUT coordinating unit itself serves as a model for more efficient
and transparent management. The hope is that benefits of this "island" can be gradually spread
through continued support to the implementation of the Transport Master Plan and (eventually)
the Urban Strategy. These plans can be considered tools, that will need to be updated, and
through continued implementation, will also serve as a means to begin to change the mentality of
public decision-makers and technicians.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD). AFD considers the PAPSUT one of the rare
projects that has succeeded in achieving a national consensus and coherent strategy for the
country. They express high praise for the PAPSUT Coordinator and his staff. AFD has a strong
interest in the urban investment program. Their project to improve the drainage system in
Libreville, which is included in the Urban Strategy Investment Plan, has languished precisely
because there has been a failure to coordinate the interests among the ministries of Urbanism,
Equipment, Finance and the Municipality of Libreville. It is strongly inclined toward supporting
the municipalities as the maitre d'ouvrage for urban works.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
European Union. The EU echoes the same positive perception of the project, attributed also to
the dedication and professionalism of the Unit Coordinator and his two sector coordinators. There
is a concern that with the end of the project, the Inter-modal Transport Master Plan will not have
a champion of the same caliber. The EU is currently financing targeted road investments within
the Transport Master Plan. It is interested in the results of the Urban Strategy and would be
amenable to participating in the urban investment plan.
African Development Bank. Similar compliments are made by the AfDB. Once the problem of
arrears is solved, the AfDB could be interested in financing institution-strengthening activities
under the Transport Master Plan, as it would fall under their governance objectives.
10. Additional Information
Persons met in Gabon during preparation of ICR
PAPSUT
M. Richard Damas, Coordinateur
M. Piron, Coodinateur, Volet Urbain
M. Waidi, Coordinateur Volet Transports (now in private sector)
Ministere de la Planification, de l'Environnement et du Tourisme
M. Casimir OYE MBA, Ministre d'Etat
M. Ange Macaire Longho, Commnissaire General au Plan
M. Hamidou Okaba, Commissaire Adjoint au Plan
Mme. Enie, Conseiller du Ministre d'Etat
- 23 -



M. Sylvain Momoadjambo, Charge d'Etudes
M. Guy Nyare, Charge d'Etudes
Ministere de I'Habitat, de l'Urbanisme, du Cadastre du Bien-Etre et de la Ville
M. Jacques Adiahenot, Ministre d'Etat
Ministere des Finances
M. Meye Bedourou be Obame, Conseiller Economique, Secretaire du Comite de Privatisation
M. Richard Edou, Conseiller du Ministre
M. Michael Adande, Conseiller du Ministre
Ministere des Transports et de la Marine Marchande
G&n6ral Idriss Ngari, Ministre
M. Jean-Pierre Obiang Zue Beyeme, Conseiller du Ministre
Mine. Engonga-Bikoru Blandine, Conseiller du Ministre
Ministere de l'Equipement et de Construction
M. Zacharie Myboto, Ministre d'Etat
M. Endestounga, Directeur General des Etudes et de Programmation
M. Allogho, Conseiller du Ministre
M. N'Tzoutsi, Ingenieur Genie Civile
M. Philippe Fidele, Conseiller
Ministere de l'Interieur
M. Ondo Ndong, Directeur de Tutelle
Mairie de Libreville
Akoghe, Marguerite, Directrice des Finances
Mba Ondo, Edouard, Chef de Departement Comptabilit6 et Budget
Ekomie, Marlene, Chef de Departement de Suivi des Recettes et Depenses
Ghambono, Rend, Chef de Departement des Recettes et dy Recouvrement
Mairie du Port Gentil
M. Gerard Boussougou, Conseiller Technique
M. Ambouroue Makaya Auguste, Conseiller Financier
Banque Mondiale
M. Ousmane Sissoko, Representant Resident
L' Union Europeen
M. Michel Pire, Conseiller Economique
Agence FranVaise de Developpement
M. Marc Dubemet
- 24 -



Banque Africaine de Developpement
Mmne. Lucette Oyoubi, Charge de la Programme BAD
Persons met in World Bank/Washington in preparation of ICR
Andreas Schliessler, Task Manager PAPSUT
Alain Ballereau, Consultant and ex Facilitateur Transports
Jean-Noel Guilloussou, Task Manager PAPSUT during preparation
Nicola Dyer Cisse, ex Resident Economist in Gabon
Patrick Canel, Task Manager PROTOTIPPEE
Christos Kostopoulos, Country Economist
- 25 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Note: According to Bank rules, the project was supposed to be retrofitted with performance indicators in
1997. However, both the Bank and the Client had doubts about the sense and purpose of such a retrofitting
exercise, given the fact that most of the project activities were already completed and the closing date was
upcoming. As a result, and after consultation with OS, it was agreed to drop the retrofitting requirement.
For purposes of the ICR, the following tables summarize the main outcome and impact indicators one could
apply at the end of the project.
Outcome/Impact Indicators
Indicator/Matrix         Projected in last PSR         Actual/Latest Estimate
Strengthened institutional   -Government adoption of new  -Government adopted new Transport
capacity of the Borrower's   Transport Strategy Government   Strategy
transport and urban sectors  presentation of "Plan Directeur   -Government presented "Plan
Intermodal des Transports"   Directeur Intermodal des
(1998-2015)                  Transports" (1998-2015)
-Concessioning of Railway    -Railway has been successfully
concessioned
-Draft Urban Strategy has been
completed and presented; formal
adoption expected for second Q
2000.
Training and significant transfer of
knowledge has taken place through
interaction with consultants.
Rational sector planning methods
have been introduced.
Participatory processes in sector
strategy development have been
introduced and extensively used.
- 26 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix          Projected in last PSR          ActualULatest Estimate
Establish a transport sector  Government adoption of new  Government adoption of new
strategy and investment   Transport Strategy in April    Transport Strategy in April 1998;
plan and transport sector  1998; Presentation of "Plan   Presentation of "Plan Directeur
restructuring plan.       Directeur Intermodal des      Intermodal des Transports
Transports (1998-2015)" in    (1998-2015)" in July 1998.
July 1998.
Establishment of Internministerial
Monitoring Committee for follow-up
of Transport Sector Action Plan
(CIST), Nov. 1999
Establish an urban sector                                -Completion and presentation of
development strategy and                                 Draft Urban Strategy in March
investment plan                                          2000; formal adoption of an Urban
Strategy in second Q 2000.
-Establishment of Interministerial
Monitoring Committee for Urban
Sector Action Plan (COS), Nov.
1999.
Execute an urban          Physical work completed.       Physical work completed; technical
infrastructure improvement                               feasibility demonstrated, employment
program in Libreville using                              generated.
labor-based methods
- 27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Prolect Cost By Component (in US$ million equivalent)
(Using averaae exchanqe rate of F FA 552.7 = $US 1 00)
Appraisal     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Proiect Cost By Component     Estimate        Estimate       Appraisal
1. Works                         2.16            1.00            46%
2. Goods                         0.12            0.12            102%
3. Services
a. Sector Strategies           0.89            2.96            333%
b. Institutional Develotment   2.26            0.41             18%
c. Proiect Preparation          1.44            0.71           49%
d. Works Executed              0.37             0.24            64%
4. Trainina/Seminars             0.92            0.58            63%
5. Operating Costs               0.14            0.57           404%
Total                 8.30            6.58            79%
Project Cost bv Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
(Us in averaae ex hanae rate of FCFA 552.7  $US 1.00)
Expenditure Cateaory    ICB          NCB        Other       NBF        Total Cost
1. Works                 0.00         1.67       0.00   F   0.49   T       2.16
IBRD                   0.00         1.27       0.00        0.00          1.27
2. Goods                 0.06        0.06    I   0.00    I  0.00    I      0.12
IBRD                   0.06        0.06        0.00        0.00          0.12
3. Services
a. Sector Strategies   0.00         0.00        0.89       0.00          0.89
IBRD                   0.00        0.00        0.71        0.00          0.71
b. Instit. Develop.    0.00         0.00        1.68       0.58          2.26
IBRD                   0.00        0.00        1.36        0.00          1.36
c. Proiect PreD.       0.00         0.00        1.12       0.32          1.44
IBRD                   0.00        0.00        0.84        0.00          0.84
d. Works Execut.        0.00        0.00        0.37       0.00          0.37
IBRD                   0.00        0.00        0.37        0.00          0.37
4. Training/Seminars     0.00    I  0.00         0.92        0.00          0.92
IBRD                   0.00        0.00        0.46        0.00          0.46
5. Operatina Costs    |   0.00    |   0.00    |   0.14    |   0.00    |    0.14
IBRD                   0.00        0.00        0.07        0.00         0.07
Total                    0.06         1.73       5.12        1.39          8.30
IBRD                   0.06        1.33        3.81        0.00          5.20
- 28 -



Project Cost bY Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
(Us ina average ex hanae rate of FCFA 552.7 = $US 1.00)
Expenditure Cateqorv    ICB          NCB        Other       NBF        Total Cost
1. Works                                 1.00                    -              1.00
IBRD                        -          0.75                                   0.75
2. Goods                     0.12         -                                     0.12
IBRD                       0.12 I-0.12
3. Services
a. Sector Strategies       2.71                               0.25            2.96
IBRD                     2.31                     -          -              2.31
b. Instit. Develop.         -                      0.41        -              0.41
IBRD                      -           -          0.32        -              0.32
c. Project Prep.                                   0.71                       0.71
IBRD                      -                      0.58        -              0.58
d. Works Execut.            0.24                    -          -               0.24
IBRD                     0.19                     -          -              0.19
4. Training/Seminars          -                     0.58         -              0.58
IBRD                                              0.34         -              0.34
5. Operating Costs                                  0.57         -              0.57
IBRD                                              0.24                        0.24
Total                        3.07        1.00       2.26        0.25            6.58
IBRD                         2.62        0.75       1.48            1           4.85
Proiect Financinq bv Component (in US$ million eauivalent)
(Using a eraue exch. rate o FCFA 552.7 = $US 1.00)
Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
Estimat     Estim t(12/31199)    Appraisal1
Component           Bank Govt. CoF. Bank Govt. CoF. Bank Govt. CoF.
1. Works             1.27  0.40  0.49 0.75  0.25  0.00  59%  62%   0%
2. Goods             0.12  0.00  0.00 0.12  0.00  0.00 102%
3. Services               =_=_=
a. Sector Strategies  0.71  0.18  0.00 2.31  0.40  0.25 325% 223% _
b. Instit. Develop.    1.36  0.32  0.58 0.32  0.08  0.00  24%   25%   0%
c. Proiect Prep.   0.84  0.28  0.32 0.58  0.13  0.00  69%  47%   0%
d. Works Execut.   0.37  0.00  0.00 0.19  0.05  0.00  52%
4. Training/Seminars  0.46  0.46  0.00 0.34  0.24  0.00  74%   52%
5. Operating Costs    0.07  0.07  0.00 0.24  0.33  0.00 344%  465%
Total                5.20  1.71  1.39 4.85  1.48  0.25  93%  86%  18%
- 29 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Due to the nature of the project, an economic cost-benefit analysis is not meaningful and was therefore not
carried out.
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Projt Cycle                No. of Persons and Speciaty                Performance Rating
(e.g 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
I   Transport Economist                                     S
I   FMS                                                     S
I   Civil Aviation Specialist                               S
I   Urban Specialist                                        S
I   Public Enterprise Restructuring                         S
Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
I   Transport Economist                                     S
I   FMS                                                     S
1   Civil Aviation Specialist                               S
1   Research Assistant                                      S
Supervision
3  FMS                                   S                 S
I  Urban Specialist                      S                 S
2  Transport Economists                  S                 S
I  Public Entreprise Restructuring       S                 S
Specialist
I  Railway Specialist                    S                 S
I  Transport Sector Planner              S                 S
I  Resident Economist                    S                 S
ICR
1   Economist
I   Transport Economist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    ActuallLatest Estimate
- No. Staff weeks               US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation               16.42                       45.97
Appraisal/Negotiation                    18.97                       52.42
Supervision
ICR
Total
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
N Macro policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
f Sector Policies                        * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
N Physical                               * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Oi Financial                             O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development              0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
LIi Environmental                        O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Gender                         OH OSUOM ON ONA
El Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
I Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
EL Other (Please specify)                0 H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
2 Supervision                                         OHS OS   OU  OHU
2 Overall                                             OHS OS   O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
I Preparation                                         OHS OS   O U   O HU
2 Government implementation performance               O HS O S   O U  0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                   O HS Os   O  U  0 HU
2 Overall                                             OHS OS  Ou O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The "Plan Directeur Intermodal des Transports 1998 - 2015" is available in the project files. Also, most of
the numerous subsector studies which served as input to the overall Sector Strategy and Investment Plan
are also available in the project files.
The project files also contain all supervision Aide-Memoires and other documents describing project
progress and implementation.
-34 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Due to the nature of the project, a specific beneficiary survey was not undertaken.






Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
Not applicable.



Annex 10. Borrower's contribution
REPUBLIQUE GABONAISE
PROJET D'AJUSTEMENT ET DE PLANIFICATION
DES SECTEURS URBAINS ET DES TRANSPORTS
(PAPSUT)
CONTRIBUTION DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
AVRIL 2000



A. - Introduction
1.   En decembre 1992, le Gouvernement gabonais et la Banque mondiale avaient reconnu la necessite
d'e1aborer une strategie sectorielle globale des transports qui tienne compte de la coherence intermodale
et des contraintes macro-economiques, et une strategie urbaine pour 1'amelioration de la gestion des villes
et des conditions de vie. A cet effet, un accord de pret de 5,2 Millions $US a e  signe entre la Republique
Gabonaise et la BIRD, portant sur un projet d'assistance technique au secteur des transports denomme
PATRANS. Afin de prendre en compte les aspects de developpement urbain, ce projet est devenu Projet
d'Ajustement et de Planification des Secteurs Urbain et de Transports (PAPSUT).
2.   Le PAPSUT visait a aider le Gouvernement a:
* preparer des politiques sectorielles des transports et de developpement urbain;
*  definir des plans d'actions et des plans d'investissement sectoriels, qui tienne compte de la
situation macro-economique et des besoins a moyen terme du secteur;
*  executer un programme d'amelioration des infrastructures a Libreville en utilisant des methodes
generatrices d'emplois.
*  et renforcer les capacites de gestion locales.
3.   Sur le plan d'organisation institutionnelle, une structure dite Cellule de Coordination du PAPSUT a
e  mise sur pied pour realiser ces missions. Elle est coiffee par une structure interministerielle denomm6e
Comite d'Orientation et de Pilotage (C.O.P.), au sein duquel les ministeres impliques dans les domaines
d'ex6cution des missions du projet sont representes. Le C.O.P etant place quant a lui sous la presidence
du Ministere de la Planification avait pour r6le majeur de suivre son deroulement et faciliter les prises de
decisions ou avals au niveau du Gouvernement. Le projet prevoyait une approche participative de fagon i
permettre une concertation et des echanges sur les diagnostiques et propositions de solutions entre les
experts, les autorites ministerielles, les collectivites locales, les operateurs economiques, la societe civile.
4.   Apres quatre annees d'existence, le PAPSUT a produit et remis au Gouvernement qui l'a adopte
une strategie des transports et des plans d'actions et d'investissements contenus dans le Plan Directeur
Intermodal des Transports (PDIT). D'autre part, apres des difficultes techniques, le rapport final de la
strategie urbaine a ete remise pour appreciation avant son adoption aux membres du Gouvernement
impliquees dans la gestion des villes. Outre les etudes de strategies, un important programme de
formation dans le sens du renforcement des capacites des administrations impliquees dans la mise en
couvre des strategies a ete partiellement realise.
B. - Les objectifs des strategies
1.   Les objectifs suivants ont e  retenus pour:
Secteur des transports:
a) L'organisation du systeme des transports en un secteur productif et rationnel repondant aux
besoins et aux lois de l'dconomie de marche;
b) Le soutien du plan d'amenagement du territoire et renforcement de l'integration economique
nationale et sous regionale;
c) La sauvegarde du patrimoine du secteur des transports par un entretien adapte et un financement
par les usagers independant du budget de l'Etat;



d) L'allegement du poids de transport dans le budget de l'Etat par un d6sengagement des entreprises
publiques dont la gestion et ou le capital seront privatises;
e) La reduction des couits de transport pour les usagers et amelioration de la qualite du service et la
securite en renfor,ant le role regulateur de l'Etat et en stimulant la compeition;
f) L'amelioration de la circulation urbaine et periurbaine avec un plan de circulation integrant
mieux les transports en communs et en dotant les collectivites locales des moyens pour l'entretien
des infrastructures; et
g) Le renforcement de la capacit6 de gestion des institutions du secteur en ameliorant les fonctions
de controle et la transparence dans la passation des marches par une meilleure formation des
ressources humaines.
Secteur urbain:
a) La rehabilitation de l'urbanisme et la planification urbaine;
b) La facilitation de l'accession des menages A la securite fonciere;
c) L'initiation d'un processus d'amelioration de l'environnement dans les quartiers
d) L'amelioration du reseau des grandes infrastructures pour accompagner l'extension de la ville;
e) L'augmentation de la participation de la population et de l'economie au financement de la ville;
f) L'adaptation des institutions aux besoins et contraintes nouvelles.
2.   Ces etudes ont couvert tous les domaines prevus A l'Accord de pret. Initialement au nombre de 25,
elles ont ete deduite au nombre de 7 A l'occasion de la revue A mi-parcours pour le volet Transport.
Notons en particulier le travail de tres bonne qualite produit pour:
a) 1'etude sur l'Appui Institutionnel aux Ministeres de Tutelles, par BCEOM - France;
b) 1'etude sur Developpement des Transports Urbains, par SYSTRAISNGE - France-Gabon;
c) I'6tude sur Developpement d'une Politique des Transports Aeriens et le Plan d'Entreprise d'Air
Gabon, par GIBB- Grande Bretagne;
d) 1'etude d'Appui au Developpement Aeroportuaire et de l'Aviation Civile, par TECSULT en
association avec l'Aeroport de Montreal- Canada, et;
e) I'6tude d'Appui au Developpement Portuaire et Maritime, par TER/SNGE - France-Gabon.
3.   II faut signaler que les etudes concernant la privatisation de la Societe Nationaled'Acconage et de
Transit (SNAT) et de la Compagnie Nationale (CNI) furent programmdes et les termes de reference
prepares, mais il fut convenu que le lancement et leur realisation serait menees par le Comite de
Privatisation au Ministere des Finances.
4.   La strategie urbaine du Gabon est sous-tendue par la realisation de plusieurs etudes sous
sectorielles, parmi lesquelles:
* Conditions sanitaires et environnement urbain;
*  Accessibilite et deplacements urbains;
* Rattrapage des equipements sociaux et marchands;
*  Extensions urbaines;
* Diagnostic des Acteurs publics des gestions urbaine et municipale;
* Diagnostic et recommandations pour I'Amelioration de l'environnement urbain;
*  Developpement de l'agriculture periurbaine;
*  Plan d'action pour une reforme fonciere urbaine;
*  Diagnostic du reseau urbain gabonais.



C. - Les resultats et les performances du PAPSUT
1.   Au regard des resultats, les missions du PAPSUT ont ete globalement atteint, tant pour le volet
transports que pour le volet urbain. La qualite des etudes et la pertinence des recommandations ont donne
satisfaction a l'ensemble des partenaires. II y a cependant deux reserves A signaler.
*  Le projet a connu des retards cumules de deux ans dus a des causes diverses (tracasseries et
lourdeurs administratives lors de la mise en vigueur, irr6gularite des subventions gabonaises,
revision de la methodologie de lors de la revue A mi-parcours, difficult6s avec certains
consultants, etc...).
*  Si la formation du personnel du PAPSUT peut etre jugee satisfaisante, celle des agents de
l'administration n'a pas atteint les objectifs escomptes. En effet, elle avait ete programmee pour
la fin du projet, mais cette periode a coYncide avec les difficultes financieres et la carence des
fonds de contrepartie, alors que les sessions de formation demandent une longue planification.
Le volet Transports
1.   En depit de quelques embfiches du consultant, la preparation de la strategie des transports a ete
globalement conduite avec la realisation des etudes modales et le travail de synthese des experts de
l'etude du Plan Directeur Intermodal de Transports. Cette strategie a pris corps le 15 avril 1998 avec
l'adoption par le Conseil des Ministres d'un projet de Declaration de Politique des Transports qui reprend
les principales recommandations des etudes axees sur le desengagement de l'Etat, la rationalisation du
systeme par l'intermodalite et l'appui A l'economie par l'efficacite au moindre cofit d'investissement et
d'entretien. Les programmes d'investissement ont en effet ete l'objet d'analyses de pr&-faisabilite
complete et les options ont ete selectionndes en fonction de leur rentabilite economique.
2.   La strategie de politiques de transport et le PDIT furent presentes a la Table Ronde des bailleurs
qui s'est tenue les 16 et 17 Juillet 1998 A Paris. L'objectif de la table ronde etait d'informer les bailleurs
de fonds des grandes orientations de la nouvelle politique de transports et d'obtenir leur adhesion au
programme d'investissement du PDIT conqu sur la base de criteres rationnels. Des manifestations
d'interet ont pu etre exprimees A l'occasion de cette manifestation. Certaine se sont traduites en actions
concretes, comme le financement par le Fonds koweftien de l'amdnagement de 10 aeroports interieurs et
de la route Akieni-Okondja (projets contenus dans le PDIT) pour un montant de pres de 15 milliards de
dollars US.
3.   Sur le plan des reformes structurelles, notamment des privatisations, le PAPSUT a ete accompli
avec la mise en concession privee de l'exploitation du chemin de fer. Le PAPSUT a eu la responsabilite
de lancer l'etude et de suivre de tres pres l'avancement du dossier. Ceci a compris la preparation d'etudes
de faisabilite, du plan social, des documents de la convention de concession et d'appel d'offres des
concessionnaires potentiels, l'evaluation des offres techniques et la selection finale sur la base de l'offre
financiere. Les aspects administratifs ont e  traites par le Secretariat A la Privatisation qui fut cree entre-
temps au sein du Ministere des Finances.
Le volet Urbain.
1.   En plus de l'elaboration et l'adoption d'une strategie de developpement urbain, l'elaboration d'un
programme d'investissements public urbain, le volet urbain se devait de realiser une operation pilote de
travaux d'interet public A haute intensite de main-d'ceuvre portant sur l'exdcution du pavage d'une voie
de desserte de quartier AVEA. Les objectifs generaux visaient:



*  L'amelioration de la planification des investissements urbains;
  L'amelioration de la gestion des finances urbaines;
*  L'amelioration de la gestion des infrastructures existantes de la Municipalite de Libreville;
*  L'amelioration des systemes fonciers.
2.    Apres les difficultes rappeles ci-dessus, les resultats de la composante urbaine ont e  atteints dans
leur ensemble.
3.    Un premier projet de strategie urbaine a et presente lors d'un atelier regroupant l'administration
centrale, les elus locaux de villes, les ONG, la soci6te civile, etc. en avril 1997. Ce projet qui a fait l'objet
de nombreuses critiques, du fait notarnment qu'il ne repondait aux preoccupations essentielles et du
moment de la majorite des Gabonais, n'a pu etre adopte. La reprise de la methodologie d'elaboration de la
strategie, apres maintes hesitations a ete d6cidee avec le soutien de la Banque et le recrutement d'un
nouveau consultant s'est egalement impose. Un deuxieme projet de strategie, A l'issue des etudes sus
mentionnees, a ete presente A un atelier tenu les 19, 20 et 21 octobre 1999. Ce projet qui semblait mieux
coller aux pr6occupations de l'Administration et des elus locaux, a neanmoins fait l'objet d'une demande
de complements, notamment de la part des elus locaux, ayant abouti au lancement de trois nouvelles
etudes sur les question suivantes:
*  Production du logement
*  Gestion des infrastructures et services urbains
*  Mise en place de la decentralisation municipale urbaine
4.    Enfin une version completee et amelioree du projet de strategie urbaine presentee en octobre 1999
a ete remise aux autorites pour examen, en mars 2000, ainsi qu'un resume de ce document et un projet de
d6claration de strategie urbaine. Le document de strategie integre en son sein un plan d'actions prioritaires
et un programme d'investissements prioritaires sur une periode de dix (10) annees.
4.    La strat6gie urbaine introduira des reformes qui repondent A la fois aux necessites d'une meilleure
gestion urbaine et aux besoins des citadins. Les nombreux dysfonctionnements dans les domaines telles
que la legislation fonciere, les extensions urbaines, 1'environnement sanitaire dans les villes, les
6quipements collectifs, les transports, I'agriculture periurbaine et les acteurs de la gestion urbaine, devront
trouver dans la strategie urbaine, des reponses claires et aboutir A des solutions qui repondent le mieux
aux aspirations de la population, contribuant in fine A la reduction sensible de la pauvrete.
Operation Pilote Avea
I.   L'operation pilote de pavage de voie et de realisation de drainage associe A la voie, dans le quartier
Av6a A Libreville, visait quatre (4) objectifs clairement definis dans I'accord de pret:
* Realiser une dvaluation en vraie grandeur de la factibilite des travaux de rehabilitation
d'infrastructure dans les quartiers demunis de Libreville, mettant en ceuvre des technologies et
des composants (paves) qui minimisent le recours aux equipements lourds et maximisent leurs
effets sur 1'emploi peu qualifie dans le secteur de la construction;
* Creer une capacite municipale de maitrise d'ouvrage et de conduite et de gestion de ce type de
travaux;
* Identifier les lacunes eventuelles des entreprises au plan technique afin de mettre au point un
programme de formation approprie;
* Determiner un m6canisme de participation (y compris au plan financier) et d'appropriation de ces
operations par les communautes de quartier.



2.   Les r6sultats attendus de l'operation portaient sur 3.100 metres lineaires (ml) de voies a paver etA
assainir. Hormis de legeres modifications du programme pour des raisons budgetaires, l'ouvrage a ete
entierement termine. La cellule municipale creee et mise en place pour la gestion de ces travaux HIMO
sur Avea a demontre sa pleine capacite a gerer ce type d'operation. Elle a e  maintenue en place pendant
toute la duree de l'operation et a pu beneficier d'un appui technique d'un consultant chevronne, ainsi que
d'un voyage d'etude et d'un stage d'immersion de deux semaines a l'AGETUR Benin.
3.   L'operation pilote a ete menee non sans des multiples difficultes des PME. A l'issue de l'operation,
des jeunes du quartier ayant participe aux travaux, se sont constitues en association informelle pour
entretenir les ouvrages realises, notamment en organisant un curage p6riodique et b6nevole des
caniveaux. Les effets economiques mesures ne se sont pas faits attendre. La physionomie du quartier a
commence a change bien avant la fin des travaux de l'operation qui a mis en valeur les terrains avoisinant
a la grande satisfaction des riverains qui avaient au depart affiche un certain scepticisme.
D. - Le volet Formation
1.   La formation visait essentiellement comme objectif, le renforcement des capacites locales de
gestion des secteurs urbain et des transports, dont les diagnostics institutionnels ont r6vele de nombreux
insuffisances dans le domaine a l'origine des dysfonctionnements de ces secteurs. Cette composante des
missions du projet a ete beaucoup plus active dans le volet Urbain que le volet Transport.
2.   Une esquisse de plan de formation des Elus locaux, et des personnels de l'administration centrale et
de l'administration decentralisee a bien ete propose dans le cadre des etudes urbaines, mais n'a pu etre
execute faute temps. De la meme fa,on, le plan de formation elabore par le PAPSUT et accepte par la
Banque n'a que partiellement ete realise. Toutefois d'autres formations ont pu etre realis6es. Par contre,
des s6minaires et ateliers participatifs ont ete regulierement organises et avec succes dans le cadre de la
pr6paration des strategie sectorielles.
3.   Ainsi, les deux responsables des secteurs transports et urbain ont pu beneficier d'une formation de
trois (3) semaines a Washington en 1996 sur << le partenariat public prive en matiere de gestion et
d'investissements dans les infrastructures >>. En 1999, le responsable du secteur urbain a effectue un stage
de quatre (4) semaines A Montreal en << planification et gestion de projets >> et un autre de deux (2) a Paris
sur <l 1'etude d'impact environnemental >>. En 1999 A Abidjan un agent du PAPSUT a participe A un
seminaire de deux (2) semaines sur < les indicateurs de performance et contr6le de projets >>. De 1996 A
1999 a Libreville plusieurs formations ont ete organisees:
*  Initiation aux Outils informatiques (4 personnes)
*  Initiation et Perfectionnement en anglais (6 personnes)
* Initiation A l'Internet (3 personnes)
*  Procedures de passation de marches (organise par la BAD - 2 personnes),
*  Analyse economique et financiere de projets de developpement (organise par l'Union Europeenne
- 1 personne)
4.   D'autres seminaires et rencontres ont eu lieu pour les agents du PAPSUT, plus dans un souci
d'information et d'echanges que dans celui d'une veritable formation.
5.   Dans le cadre Formation-Sensibilisation-Information des agents autres que du PAPSUT, le
PAPSUT a finance un certain nombre d'activites pour d'autres agents issus de l'Administration centrale,
des mairies ou des ONG locales:



*  Conference des Africit6s A Abidjan (II maires du Gabon + 3 agents du PAPSUT)
*  Formation dipl6mante MARP A Libreville Diagnostics sur les questions du foncier de
l'accessibilite dans deux quartiers sous integres (30 personnes dont 20 diplom6s - etudiants,
ONG, associations, et services municipaux)
*  Atelier participatif a la methode ZOPP sur le drainage A Port-Gentil (25 personnes - maires,
agents municipaux, services deconcentres de l'Etat, secteur prive, associations)
* Formation d'un Agent de la Direction Generale de la sante publique en etude d'impact sur
l'environnement.
E. - Performances
1.   Globalement, la performance du PAPSUT fut bonne car elle a pu mettre en oeuvre le programme
prevu. En ce qui concerne son role de coordination avec les ministeres concernes, le PAPSUT ne semble
pas avoir ete assez effective du fait des absences des membres aux reunions mandatees par les presidents
des groupes de travail, par exemple, ce qui pose la limite d'une approche dite participative. D'autre part,
des decisions au niveau gouvernemental furent prises en toute ignorance de la mission du PAPSUT; tel
est le cas de la SOGATRA et egalement l'achat de remorqueurs par l'OPRAG; decisions en porte-A-faux
avec les recommandations du PAPSUT.
2.   Au dela des difficultes d'ordre technique, les resultats du projet ont pati des pesanteurs liees au
cadre institutionnel. L'attitude de certains departements a e  revelatrice d'une tendance a l'inflexibilite et
A maintenir des politiques surannees et budgetivores que le pays ne peut plus se permettre. Cette situation
est attribuable, pour partie, au manque de visibilite du travail de grande valeur effectue dans le cadre de
l'operation du PAPSUT. D'autre part, le desir d'independance des ministeres de tutelle par rapport aux
travaux du Ministere Plan et du PAPSUT qui en depend, reflete un manque de transparence et de respect
des procedures de selection de projets, conduisant A des depassements de budgets et des gaspillages que
l'approche du PAPSUT devaitjustement corriger.
3.   L'encadrement par la tutelle du projet (Commissariat au Plan), apparait comme satisfaisant, du fait
de l'equilibre et de la neutralite recherch6e dans la definition d'une strategie de transports et d'un
programme d'investissement qui repondent A des choix rationnels, selon une procedure etablie et credible.
Son role a ete determinant pour assurer au projet les fonds locaux suffisants n6cessaires dans les budgets
annuels, m8me si les versements furent effectues avec retards.
4.   En revanche, le r6le des administrations de tutelle du secteur des transports fut malheureusement
trop marginal, dans la mesure ou les representants nommes par les Ministres du MEC et des Transports,
n'ont pas eu une attitude ouverte devant l'approche resolument reformatrice que le projet PAPSUT
apportait dans le cadre global et necessaire de l'ajustement macro-economique agree entre le
Gouvemement le FMI et la Banque Mondiale. Les ajustements concernant les secteurs transports et
urbains devaient 8tre ddfinis par le projet PAPSUT, dont c'etait la raison d'8tre et la finalite. En fait ces
ministeres avaient leur agenda et priorites, et n'entendaient pas vouloir modifier leurs programmes en
cours et A venir en fonction des travaux et des recommandations du projet PAPSUT.
5.   La complexite de la question urbaine par rapport aux implications politiques, administratives et
financieres, a et A la base des difficultes d'elaboration et de mise en CEuvre de la Strategie Urbaine. II
faut se souvenir des difficultes que la strategie urbaine a eu avec ce departement pour mettre en ccuvre
cette composante. De nombreux brainstorming, ateliers, et r6unions avec ce departement ont eu lieu,
parfois informelles, pour expliquer la strategie, stexpliquer. Missions avaient et donnees aux consultants
de poursuivre ce travail a chaque rencontre avec l'administration, notamment avec ce departement.
Aujourd'hui les progres realises en matiere d'appropriation de la strategie sont considerables. Ainsi, l'onp



etd agreablement surpris de constater que conformrment aux recommandations de la strategie urbaine -
qui n'est pas encore adoptee-, ce ministere a engager des op&ations de lotissements selon les principes de
la grande maille proposes par la strategie, inscrite dans un document simplifie d'urbanisme s'apparentant
au schema sectoriel d'urbanisme. La strat6gie recommandait que sur Libreville deux operations de
production de parcelles soient immediatement lancees, une au nord et une autre au sud de l'agglomeration,
et qu'a cette occasion des schemas d'amenagement de secteurs soient realises.
6.   Compte tenu des difficultes rencontrees dans la participation de certains departements aux travaux
menes par le PAPSUT, la crainte legitime de voir la strategie urbaine demeurer sans suite apres le retrait
PAPSUT a fait jour. La necessite d'engager la mise en ceuvre de la strategie a vite et per,ue des lors
qu'un minimum de consensus avait e  obtenu avec l'Administration et les Elus locaux, notamment sur le
diagnostic du secteur, et avant mnme que cette derniere n'est et adoptee par le Gouvemement. Pour faire
avancer les recommandations, qui pour certaines sont d'actualite depuis pres d'une decennie et qui avait
etd inscrite dans le dernier PAS entre le Gabon et le FMI (la question fonciere), il nous a fallu inventer la
strategie de mise en ceuvre de la strategie urbaine.
F. - Le support et la gestion financiere du projet
1.   Initialement les moyens financiers dont devait disposer la cellule de coordination etaient evalues a
8,3 millions U$ soit l'equivalent de 4,150 milliards CFA au taux de 500 F. CFA (le taux de conversion
etait de 500 F entre 1994 et 1996). Les cofits du projet ont concerne 5 categories de depenses eligibles:
travaux, fournitures, consultants, formation et seminaires, et frais de fonctionnement de la cellule, etc. Les
fonds Gabonais devaient couvrir l'ensemble de cofits locaux, plus pres de 400 millions de CFA en cofits
*trangers. La Banque Mondiale devait couvrir la majeure partie des cofits etrangers et une petite partie
des couits locaux, ainsi que les autres financiers exterieurs. Cependant seule la CFD vint s'ajouter aux
finances Banque Mondiale, et en d6finitive la contribution exterieure n'a pas entierement couvert les
cofits exterieurs. Les contributions, en definitive, se sont reparties de la maniere suivante
CONTRIBUTION ETAT GABONAIS - BAILLEURS DE FONDS
Nom                       Montant en FCFA
Banque Mondiale                                2.626.334.140
Etat Gabonais                                    787.700.961
Caisse Francaise de Developpement                204.004.500
Total                                          3.718.039.601
2.   Le montant total du pret n'a pas et6 totalement consomme a la date de clbture au 31 mars 2000. A
cette date, le reliquat du pret est de 341722 US $, soit 232,4 millions FCFA (taux de change du US$ de
680 FCFA), soit pres de 7% du montant du pret. Quant au compte special, son solde au 7/04/2000 est de
356462 FCFA. II est evident qu'il ne sera plus realimente. Le tableau ci-apres recapitule les allocations
des contributions au projet.



CADRE D'ENGAGEMENT DES DEPENSES
Ln. 3777-GA
Cat6gorie de la Depense                      Financement
No                    Designation                 Montant $US    % BIRD initial
1     Travaux                                       1.000.000            75%
2     Foumitures                                      100.000            100%
3     Consultant                                    2.400.000             80%
3a    Appui A la preparation des strategies           600.000         -
3b    Developpement institutionnel                  1.000.000         -
3c    Appui A 1'execution des parties A A D du Projet  640.000        -
3d    Appui A l'ex6cution de la partie E du Projet    160.000         -
4     Formation et Seminaires                         400.000             50%
5     Fonctionnement                                   50.000             50%
6     Refmancement du PPF                             550.000
7     Non Affecte                                     700.000
TOTAL                           5.200.000
3.   Face aux retards dans le versement de la contrepartie gabonaise tout au long de l'execution du
projet, la BIRD a consenti de revoir l'allocation du pret en 1999. Le total de nos engagements non
honores s'eleve A 160.106.000 FCFA. Compte tenu du solde au compte special A, ces engagements ne
pourront 8tre payes que par <. paiements directs o. La rigidite relative du processus de justification de
l'avance (les reductions operees d'office A la Banque ne permettaient plus une alimentation consequente
du compte Special A), explique en grande partie l'impossibilite pour le PAPSUT d'honorer les derniers
engagements par le compte special A.
4.   La contribution de I'Etat Gabonais a e  de 1.300.000.000 F. CFA dont une partie a e  utilis6e
dans le financement des depenses non eligibles par la Banque Mondiale: (Salaires, Locations, Eau et
Electricite, Carburant, Achat vehicules, Equipements complementaires, Fournitures de bureau,
telecommunications...). Les inscriptions budgetaires ont Rd regulierement faites par le Minist&re de la
Planification qui assure la tutelle du PAPSUT. Les montants inscrits ont ete verses par tranches, parfois
avec beaucoup de retard. Les montants de ces tranches devenaient de plus en plus faibles du fait de la
crise economique et financiere qu'a connu le Gabon. Cette situation a amend le PAPSUT en 1999 a
demander A la Banque Mondiale de porter A 100% sa participation au financement des etudes et
s6minaires.
SUBVENTIONS GABONAISES AU PAPSUT (EN FCFA)
Annees         Dotations              Reglements
1995          150.000.000               14.000.000
136.000.000
1996          400.000.000             400.000.000
1997          500.000.000             200.000.000
150.000.000
100.000.000
50.000.000
1998          250.000.000              50.000.000
30.000.000
170.000.000
1999          105.000.000     En instances au Trdsor
TOTAL        1.405.000.000           1.300.000.000



5.   De facon generale, les montants de la contribution la partie Gabonaise au Projet furent le plus
souvent verses avec beaucoup de retard ; cependant I'annee 1999 fut une exception avec un retard
considerable puisque le budget national n'etait pas encore disponible en mai. Une partie importante des
fonds de la Banque Mondiale a risque de ne pas pouvoir etre utilisee, et l'execution de certains elements
du projet, en particulier la formation n'a pu etre completee.
G. - Le suivi et les perspectives de mise en ceuvre des strategies
1.   Afin d'eviter aux plans d'actions et aux programmes d'investissement la dilution souvent constat6e
des etudes commises par l'Etat, il a ete crde une structure de suivi de la mise en aeuvre de la strategie des
transports et du PDIT, qui eviterait, autant que faire se peut, la dilution des recommandations des
strategies, comme cela est souvent arrive aux etudes commises par l'Etat. Le suivi necessaire de la mise
en ceuvre du PDIT a fait l'objet d'une reflexion approfondie pour determiner la structure et l'organisation
les plus appropriees. Une proposition a ete elabor6e par la partie Gabonaise de constituer un comite de
suivi interministeriel avec le PAPSUT denommee Comite Interministeriel de Suivi du PDIT (CIST)
charge du monitoring de la mise en place des plans d'actions du PDIT.
2.   Avec la mise en cuvre du nouveau projet PROTOTIPPEE qui faut-il le rappeler, s'inscrit dans le
prolongement de la strategie urbaine, il a ete cree une structure de suivi denommee le Comite Consultatif
Interministeriel d'Orientation et de Coordination des Programmes de Developpement Urbain (C.O.C),
place sous la responsabilite du Ministre de la Planification et qui comprend des representants des
ministeres impliquees dans la gestion des villes. Le C.O.C. sera charge de coordonner et d'orienter les
actions des differentes administrations intervenant dans la realisation et l'execution des programmes ou
de projets de developpement urbain.
3.   Les plans d'actions comportent des mesures de reformes ineluctables qui s'inserent dans le cadre
de l'ajustement structurel et conjoncturel en cours. Tout comme, il comporte en ce qui conceme la
strategie urbaine, un important contenu << developpement humain >> qui contribuerait de maniere
significative a la lutte contre la pauvrete. En raison de l'absence de relais dans l'Administration, il est par
consequent dommageable que les recommandations des strategies restent sans suite, du fait de la
disparition du PAPSUT qui a joue le r6le de coordination et de secretariat du CIST.
H. - La preservation des acquis et de la memoire du PAPSUT par la creation d'un Centre
d'Information et de Documentation (CDI) et d'un site Web
1.   Dans le cadre de p6renniser les acquis du PAPSUT et de ne pas tomber dans le travers du deficit de
communication, le PAPSUT a donc entrepris d'organiser en son sein un centre documentaire et de creer,
un site web. Ces activites n'ont pas ete prevues initialement par le projet et constituent une valeur ajout6e
generee par le projet. Les chercheurs, les institutions pourront ainsi acceder a l'ensemble des informations
concemant les secteurs urbain et des transports. Le site web est une vitrine qui permet de mieux "vendre"
le projet, lui donner une dimension nationale qui nWest pas encore bien affirmee, et voire une dimension
internationale. A la cl6ture du projet, le site sera insere dans rensemble des sites relatifs au Ministere de'
la Planification et sera alimente par les techniciens du ministere. Il constituera la memoire de reference du
PAPSUT



I. - LeVons et recommandations
1.   Si les r6sultats du projet ont en general 6te juges de bonne facture, sans que tout soit parfait, c'est
que celui-ci a beneficie de certains atouts qu'il convient de souligner, comme il convient de souligner les
entraves, car on apprend plus dans la difficulte que dans la facilite.
2.   Le premier avantage a et de trouver A tous les niveaux des hommes de qualite. Au niveau de la
cellule d'execution qui en fut la piece maitresse, le Coordinateur a eu la chance de pouvoir constituer une
equipe volontaire qui malgre son manque d'experience, est entree au projet comme on s'engage dans un
mouvement et qui a compris son travail comme une mission, ce qui a et important pour vaincre les
moments de decouragements et mener la tache A son terme.
3.   L'echelon politique de l'Administration repr6sente par le Comite d'Orientation et de Pilotage
(COP) a bien joue son r6le d'appui dans les decisions, malgre la gene que constituait les changements de
gouvernements. Cette gene a ete compensee par la permanence du President du COP qui a apporte une
aide efficace et sans faille lorsque son intervention etait sollicitee.
4.   Les groupes de travail ont connu des fortunes diverses; certains ont eu du mal A se mobiliser,
tandis que d'autres ont convenablement participer a orienter les strat6gies. De leur cBte les principaux
correspondants du projet a la Banque ont toujours montre beaucoup d'interet au projet et les echanges qui
se presentaient sous forme de conseil ou de contr6le ont toujours e  harmonieux. La presence d'un
repr6sentant local de la Banque a egalement et fort appreciable dans son r6le de facilitation. Enfin
l'echelon Ministeriel, les differents ministres impliques dans le projet ont quelque fois, selon les
circonstances, mis un delai A integrer le projet, mais ils ont eu la capacite d'adaptation necessaire, et
surtout ont pleinement joud leur r6le au moment critique de l'adoption finale des strategies. Le Ministere
de la Planification en particulier a su efficacement concilier les interets des differents departements dans
le respect des contraintes economiques et financieres. Cette experience passionnante, a permis aux
intervenants de reflechir sur certains points et proposer quelques recommandations pour l'avenir.
5.   Un projet est une mission au sens le plus noble du terme, c'est pourquoi il doit etre constitue par
des hommes qui ont une capacite d'abnegation et qui prennent un engagement avec eux memes autant
qu'avec leurs mandataires. La mission du projet n'est pas seulement de produire un resultat specifique
dans un secteur deternine, elle est surtout de constituer un modele qui doit diffuser autour de lui des
methodes de travail et des principes de gouvernance: toute une nouvelle philosophie. Mais la diffusion de
cette nouvelle mentalite exige que les ilots que constituent les projets possedent une masse critique qui
leur permette de subsister et de vaincre les habitudes locales. Dans cet optique, ne pouvant alourdir la
dimension des projets, il conviendrait de les constituer en rdseau, chaque nouveau projet devant cooperer
avec les projets existants et futurs dans le but de:
 echanger des experiences et s'entraider face aux difficultes dexecution;
* harmoniser et consolider leurs actions de diffusion des methodes et des principes;
*  rentabiliser au mieux les moyens exceptionnels qui sont mis a leur disposition en elargissant leurs
objectifs touchant A l'6volution culturelle sociale ou 6conomique du pays;
*  structurer l'information dans chaque secteur et organiser des echanges entre projets et rendre
disponible ces informations pour l'administration et meme le public. Ce systeme pourrait en outre
&re combine avec d'autres systemes d'information techniques et economiques.
6.   Ces actions complementaires A caractere informatif et educatif pourraient demander quelques
ressources humaines locales complementaires sans exiger des moyens financiers importants, et devraient
avoir un impact important sur l'evolution des mentalites et des methodes. On pourrait laisser A ce propos
une certaine l'attitude aux projets tout en faisant un critere de performance . En relation avec les missiors



des projets, se pose la question de leur duree qui par essence est limitee dans le temps afin d'agir
ponctuellement sur les domaines prioritaires. Mais l'un des acquis des projets concerne la formation et les
mutations comportement capitalises par le personnel. Leur dispersion dans l'Administration les reintegre
peu a peu dans les lourdeurs du systeme. Un suivi de leur carriere et leur reinsertion eventuelle dans
d'autres projets permettraient de conserver et de rentabiliser les capacites acquises.
7.   De meme, a la fin du projet technique, il convient de prolonger sa mission jusqu'A la transmission a
l'administration du patrimoine constitue par les acquis du projet pour une exploitation approprie. II s'agit
en l'occurrence pour le PAPSUT d'organiser l'apres projet, c'est-a-dire, de garantir la mise en ceuvre et la
reactualisation des plans d'action. Pour assurer le bon deroulement du projet, toutes ces questions
concernant la preparation du projet, I'apres projet, 1'elargissement des missions au dela des taches
purement technique, la mise en place d'un systeme d'information et le caractere educatif, pourrait etre
traitees lors de l1'valuation du projet et citees dans les documents contractuels.
J. - Conclusion
1.   En depit de la transparence dans l'analyse des problemes des secteurs et a la demarche
participative, les divergences d'opinion au sein de l'Administration ont pu etre surmontees grace a
l' action de concertation du Ministere de la Planification. L'elaboration des strategies est arrivee a un
moment de crise qui a certainement facilite l'attitude de sagesse del'Administration , et donc a l'adoption
des solutions rationnelles. La traduction en actes concrets des recommandations des strategies, visant la
rationalisation des moyens et des procedures reste cependant une preoccupation au regard des
duplications et des lourdeurs administratives qui retardent et compliquent la gestion du secteurs. Les plans
d'actions proposees pourraient apporter des solutions, mais la volonte politique devra etre forte et
constante pour vaincre les resistances aux changements et contenir les pressions sociales. Le projet
PAPSUT constitue une mine d'informations et d'analyses qui sont disponibles pour tout responsable
d6sireux de suivre les strategies et les plans d'actions. II serait done important de veiller, au moyen de
structures-relais du PAPSUT, au suivi de la mise en oeuvre graduelle des strategies. C'est a cette fin que le
CIST et le COS ont ete crees.
2.    Ces comites auront fort a faire pour eviter aux strategies (1), la dilution souvent constat&e des
etudes commises par l'Etat ; (2) le diff&e de la mise en aeuvre de leurs recommandations. Toutes choses
qui conduirait ineluctablement a la perennisation de l'inorganisation dans la gestion institutionnelle des
secteurs, des insuffisances constatees dans la programmation des ressources et des investissements et, de
l'exacerbation de la pauvretd dans nos villes.



