Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3777 GA
                              Loan Agreement
              (Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project)
                                  between
                           THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated October 13, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3777 GA
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated October 13, 1994, between THE GABONESE REPUBLIC (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
    (B)   part of the Project will be carried out by the Municipalite de
Libreville (the Municipality) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Municipality
part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
    (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from: (a) other donor(s) loan(s)
or grant(s) to assist in financing part of the Project on terms and
conditions set forth in (an) agreement(s) to be entered into between the
Borrower and this/these donor(s);
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Municipality;
Page  2
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph
(l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
    further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
    provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
    Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
    (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the
Municipality of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term to include all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement;
    (b)   "Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Municipality pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term to include all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Subsidiary
Grant Agreement;
    (c)   "Special Account" means each of the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
    (d)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters dated May 6, 1994, and May 9, 1994, respectively, between the
Borrower and the Bank;
    (e)   "MEPRSPP" means Ministere de l'Economie, de la Planification, du
Redressement du Secteur Parapublic et de la Privatisation, the Ministry for
Economics, Planning, Public Sector Restructuring and Privatization of the
Borrower;
    (f)   "MFBP" means Ministere des Finances, du Budget et des
Participations, the Ministry of Finance, Budget and Participation of the
Borrower;
    (g)   "MTTPN" means Ministere des Transports, du Tourisme et des Parcs
Nationaux, the Ministry of Transport, Tourism and National Parks of the
Borrower;
    (h)   "MMMP" means Ministere de la Marine Marchande et de la Peche, the
Ministry of Merchant Shipping and Fisheries of the Borrower;
    (i)   "MEC" means Ministere de l'Equipement et de la Construction, the
Ministry of Equipment and Construction of the Borrower;
    (j)   "MHCU" means Ministere de l'Habitat, du Cadastre et de
l'Urbanisme, the Ministry of Urban Affairs of the Borrower;
    (k)   "Manual of Procedures" means the guidelines, included in the
Implementation Manual, for implementation of Part E of the Project;
    (l)   "Implementation Manual" means the guidelines for Project
implementation, including, inter alia, the Manual of Procedures, monitoring
indicators and sample bidding documents; and
Page  3
    (m)   "CFA Franc" or "CFAF" means the Franc de la Cooperation Financiere
en Afrique Centrale, the currency of the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
five million two hundred thousand dollars ($5,200,000), it being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in CFA Franc two special deposit accounts (Special Account A for
MEPRSPP; and Special Account B for the Municipality) in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the Amount
required to repay the principal of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation
Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1997 or such later
date as the Bank shall accept. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower
of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the
                Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
Page  4
                (a) of this Section.
          (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
          amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
          at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
          one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
          specified in Sec-     tion 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
          shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
          during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 15 and December 15 of each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this
end:
          (i)   shall, under the overall coordination of MEPRSPP, carry out
                Parts A through D of the Project, with due diligence and
                efficiency and in conformity with appropriate planning,
                training, engineering, environmental, administrative and
                financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
                the funds, facilities, services and other resources
                required for Parts A through D of the Project; and
         (ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
                obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause the
                Municipality to carry out Part E of the Project and to
                perform all its obligations set forth in the Project
                Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
                including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
                other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the
                Municipality to perform such obligations, and shall not
                take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
                or interfere with such performance.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) carry out Parts A through D of the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Schedule set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
and (ii) open and maintain in a commercial bank two accounts (Project
Account A for MEPRSPP, and Project Account B for the Municipality) to be
used exclusively to meet expenditures under the Project; and deposit: (A)
into Project Account A an initial amount equivalent to $100,000 and into
Project Account B an initial amount equivalent to $170,000; and (B) the
remaining amounts of its counterpart contribution into each Project Account
according to a schedule of payments agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Bank.
    (c)   Pursuant to paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Borrower shall
Page  5
make the proceeds of the Loan, allocated from time to time to the
Municipality, available to the Municipality as a grant under a Subsidiary
Grant Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Municipality, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
    (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
    Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
    (a)   no later than November 30, 1995, or at such later date as the Bank
and the Borrower shall agree upon, carry out jointly with the Bank an in-
depth review of Project implementation (mid-term review), and invite donors
and public enterprises active in the Borrower's transport sector to
participate in such review;
    (b)   such review shall: (A) assess, inter alia: (i) progress in meeting
the Project's objectives; (ii) adequacy of counterpart funding; (iii)
continued commitment of the Borrower to stimulate participative development
of the transport and urban sector strategy referred to in paragraphs (7) and
(8) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (iv) compliance of Project
implementation with regard to the Implementation Manual agreed upon by the
Borrower and the Bank; and (v) feasibility to initiate pre-investment
studies; and (B) propose an action plan to improve Project implementation,
if required;
    (c)   furnish to the Bank, not later than one month prior to such mid-
term review, a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank,
describing the status of the items referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section, and of Project implementation generally; and
    (d)   following such review, promptly prepare and implement an action
plan, acceptable to the Bank, for the further implementation of the Project.
    Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
goods and consultants' services required for Parts A through D of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively), in respect of Part E of the Project, shall be carried out by
the Municipality pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A
through D of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                with international auditing principles consistently
                applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                not later than six months after the end of each such year,
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                requested;
Page  6
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                shall from time to time reasonably request; and
          (iv)  have the records and accounts of Special Account A, audited
                in accordance with paragraphs (i) through (iii) of this
                Section: (A) every four months during the first twelve
                months after the Effective Date; (B) every six months
                during the second twelve months after the Effective Date;
                and (C) thereafter, annually until the completion of the
                Project; and furnish such audits to the Bank at the latest
                within two months following the end of the period audited.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
                the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the
                Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
                and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                periodic audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                Section and that the report of such audits contains a
                separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                statements of expenditure submitted during the period
                preceding such audit, together with the procedures and
                internal controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   The Municipality shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Municipality will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (c)   Ordonnance No. 24/PR-MI-TC of April 6, 1963; and Ordonnance No
39/78 of April 15, 1978 of the Borrower, establishing the administrative
autonomy of the Municipality, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
the Municipality to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
    (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the
Municipality.
    (e)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                (A)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                       of any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the
                       financing of parts of the Project shall have been
                       suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
Page  7
                       part, pursuant to the terms thereof, or
                (B)    any such loan shall have become due and payable
                       prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
          (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
                (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
                perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
                Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
                consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
                Agreement.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of ninety days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
    (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
    (c)   the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of para-graph (e) (ii) of that
Section, and shall continue for a period of one hundred and twenty days.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
    (a)   the Project Coordinator, referred to under paragraph (1) of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, has been appointed in accordance with the
provisions of said paragraph;
    (b)   the accounting firm referred to in paragraph (2) of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement has been recruited in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraph and a computerized accounting system for the Project, satisfactory
to the Bank, has been installed;
    (c)   an Implementation Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, (including the
Manual of Procedures, acceptable to the Municipality), has been approved by
the Borrower;
    (d)   standard international bidding documents for goods and
consultants' services, acceptable to the Bank, have been prepared;
    (e)   the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Municipality;
    (f)   the Project Accounts referred to in Section 3.01(b)(ii) of this
Agreement have been opened and the initial amounts specified in said Section
have been deposited into the Project Accounts; and
    (g)   the independent auditors, referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this
Agreement, have been appointed under a multi-year contract in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within
the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included
in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
    (a)   the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Municipality and is legally binding
upon the Municipality in accordance with its terms; and
Page  8
    (b)   the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the
Municipality and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Municipality
in accordance with its terms.
    Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for Economy and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministere de l'Economie, de la Planification, du
            Redressement du Secteur Parapublic et de la
            Privatisation
          B.P. 172
          Libreville, Gabon
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                GOPLAN               5370 GO
                Libreville
    With copy to:
          Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
          B.P. 912
          Libreville, Gabon
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                       THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
                       By /s/ Paul Boundoukou-Latha
                       Authorized Representative
Page  9
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
                       Acting Regional Vice President
                       Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works                     1,000,000         75%
(2) Goods                       100,000         100%
(3) Consultants'
    services:
    (a)  Policy support         600,000         80%
    (b)  Institutional        1,000,000         80%
         development
    (c)  Support for            640,000         80%
         Parts A, B and
         D of the Project
    (d)  Support for Part E     160,000         80%
         of the Project
(4) Training & seminars         400,000         50%
(5) Incremental                  50,000         50%
    operating costs
(6) Refunding of                 550,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Preparation                         suant to Section
    Advance                                     2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(7) Unallocated                  700,000
                               _________
         TOTAL                 5,200,000
                               =========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "incremental operating
costs" means costs of travel, salaries of support staff recruited according
to Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, communications, operation and
maintenance of computers and office equipment incurred in the carrying out
of the Project.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
    (a)   prior to the date of this Agreement; and
    (b)   for expenditures under Category (4) of the table set forth under
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless and until a program for seminars,
Page  10
workshops and training, acceptable to the Bank, has been furnished to the
Bank covering the following twelve months.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made, under
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower, for expenditures under contracts for goods, works and consultant's
services: (a) not exceeding $30,000 equivalent; and (b) out of the Special
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (a) strengthen the institutional
management capacity in the Borrower's transport and urban sectors; (b)
establish a transport sector strategy and investment plan; (c) restructure
the transport sector; (d) establish an urban sector development strategy and
investment plan; and (e) execute an urban infrastructure improvement program
in Libreville using labor-based methods.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening Institutional Management Capacity
    (a)   analysis of the functions of ministries and munici- palities
involved in the transport and urban sectors; (b) improvement of human
resources management; and (c) preparation and execution of training plans.
4.  Carrying out of studies, seminars, and workshops using participatory
methodologies to prepare sector strategies.
Part B:   Transport Sector Strategy
    Preparation of a development strategy and an investment plan for the
Borrower's transport sector, including the promotion of, inter alia: (a)
improved sector efficiency; (b) increased compe- tition; (c) reduction of
transport costs; and (d) the decrease in subsidies to public enterprises in
the transport sector.
Part C:   Transport Sector Restructuring
    Preparation of the Borrower's transport sector restructuring plan
pursuant to the strategy developed under Part B of this Schedule, including,
inter alia: (a) rail transport: Office du Chemin de Fer Transgabonais
(OCTRA), the national railway company; (b) maritime transport: (i) Societe
Nationale de Transport Maritime (SONATRAM), the national sea-shipping
company; (ii) Societe Nationale d'Acconage et de Transit (SNAT), the
national freight forwarding company; (iii) Compagnie de Navigation
Interieure (CNI), the river transport company; (iv) Conseil Gabonais des
Chargeurs (CGC), the national freight council; and (v) Office des Ports et
Rades du Gabon (OPRAG), the port authority; (c) air transport:
(i) Libreville airport (ADL); and (ii) Air Gabon; (d) inter- and intra-urban
road transport; and (e) road infrastructure.
Part D:   Urban Sector Strategy
    Preparation of a development strategy and investment plan for the
Borrower's urban sector aimed at improving: (a) urban investment planning;
(b) urban budgeting; (c) management of the existing infrastructure of the
Municipality; and (d) urban land tenure systems.
Part E:   Urban Infrastructure Improvement
1.  Rehabilitation of selected infrastructures in selected areas of the
Municipality using labor-based methods.
2.  Carrying out studies, supervision, and grassroot level information
campaigns relevant thereto.
                                   * * *
Page  11
    The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 1997.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15,
    beginning December 15, 1999
    through June 15, 2009                $260,000
____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                             The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
                             per annum) applicable to the Loan on the day
                             of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                0.20
    before maturity
More than three years but                0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                  0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not               0.87
    more than 13 years
    before maturity
More than 13 years before                1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
              Procurement of Goods and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Page  12
1.  Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines, shall provide that, when contract award
is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's
bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.  To the extend practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $40,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $20,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods to be awarded according
to the procedures set forth in Part A.1 hereof and Part B hereof, but the
latter limited to the first twelve months after the Effective Date, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract, required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d), shall be furnished to the Bank prior to
the making of the first payment out of such Special Account in respect of
such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of a Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract, together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph
3, shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
    (d)   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
Page  13
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to:
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments
to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $25,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Schedule
    The Borrower shall:
1.  appoint a suitably experienced and qualified Project Coordinator,
reporting to the Minister of Economy and Planning, in charge of
coordinating, monitoring, supervising, and reporting on, Project activities,
assisted by experienced and qualified support staff in suitable numbers,
including a Project accountant; such Project Coordinator to be acceptable
to the Bank at all times until the completion of the Project;
2.  recruit, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4
to this Agreement, a qualified accounting firm experienced in working
according to the International Accounting Standards and acceptable to the
Bank, to assist in the establishment of a computerized accounting system for
the Project and to give periodic support to the Project accountant;
3.  establish, within three months after the Effective Date, a short list
of experienced consultants, acceptable to the Bank, qualified to carry out
services under the Project;
4.  furnish to the Bank at yearly intervals a program of seminars, workshops
and training for the next twelve months, acceptable to the Bank;
5.  ensure that no study, assessment, survey, workshop, seminar or other
activity undertaken by consultants is implemented without prior nomination
of suitably experienced and qualified counterpart staff, to remain in post
until the successful attainment of the objectives of such activity;
6.  provide in its annual budget amounts adequate to cover its counterpart
contributions to the costs of the Project;
7.  prepare, within two years after the Effective Date, a medium- and long-
term transport sector strategy, acceptable to the Bank, reflecting, inter
alia, the views of donors active in the sector of transport sector
enterprises, and of representatives of the private sector, to enhance: (i)
economic efficiency, (ii) transparency in management, and (iii) a reduction
in transport sector public subsidies; and furnish such strategy to the Bank;
8.  prepare, within two years after the Effective Date, an urban sector
strategy, acceptable to the Bank, reflecting, inter alia, the views of
donors active in the sector, of the Municipality, of MFBP, and of
representatives of the private sector, to improve: (i) urban management,
Page  14
(ii) investment planning and programming, and (iii) urban service and
infrastructure efficiency; and furnish such strategy to the Bank;
9.  have the studies, seminars and workshops agreed upon between the Bank
and the Borrower, executed according to the agreed time table;
10.       implement the Project according to the Implementation Manual; and
11.       under the overall coordination of MEPRSPP, carry out: (i)  Part
A through MTTPN, MMMP, MEC and MHCU; (ii) Part B through MTTPN, MMMP and
MEC; (iii) Part C (a), (c) and (d) through MTTPN; (iv)  Part C (b) through
MMMP; (v) Part C (e) through MEC; and (vi) Part D through MHCU.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) Categories (2); (3) (a),
(b), and (c); (4); and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, regarding Special Account A; and (ii) Categories (1)
and (3) (d), regarding Special Account B;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$250,000 for Special Account A, and an amount equivalent to $250,000 for
Special Account B, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
each Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish  such Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On thebasis of such 
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into such Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower shall
                furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special
                Account at monthly intervals or at such intervals as the
                Bank shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into such Special Account such amount
                as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of such Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories and in the respective equivalent amounts
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
Page  15
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in a Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into such Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into such Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
