LOAN NUMBER 3777 GA
Project Agreement
(Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE MUNICIPALITY OF LIBREVILLE
Dated                /3            1994


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3777 GA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        &&.4 /3            , 1994, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
THE MUNICIPALITY OF LIBREVILLE (the Municipality).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between THE GABONESE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to five million two thousand hundred dollars
($5,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Municipality agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this
Agreement;
(B)    by a subsidiary grant agreement entered into between
the Borrower and the Municipality, a portion of the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
the Municipality on the terms and conditions set forth in said Sub-
sidiary Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Municipality, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) the Municipality declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part E of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, planning, financial, engineering and environmental
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as


﻿- 2 -
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for Part E of the Project.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and the Municipality shall
otherwise agree, the Municipality shall carry out Part E of the
Project in accordance with the Manual of Procedures.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the works and consultants' services required for
Part E of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. the Municipality shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement
and Part E of the Project.
Section 2.04. the Municipality shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Municipality shall not take or concur in
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) the Municipality shall, at the request of
the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress
of Part E of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)    the Municipality shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part E of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the Municipality of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant
Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE III
Other Obligations of the Municipality
Section 3.01. The Municipality shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) the Municipality shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Part E of the Project of the departments
or agencies of the Municipality responsible for carrying out Part E
of the Project.
(b)    the Municipality shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with international
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)     furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request; and
(iv)    have the records and      accounts  of  Special
Account B audited in accordance with para-
graphs (i) through (iii) of this Section: (A)
every four months during the first twelve months
after the Effective Date; (B) every six months
during the second twelve months after the


﻿Effective Date; and (C) thereafter, annually
until the completion of the Project; and furnish
such audits to the Bank at the latest within two
months following the end of the period audited.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Municipality shall:
(i)    maintain   or  cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting   such
expenditures;
(ii)      retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)      enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the periodic audits referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audits contain a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure   submitted   during  the   period
preceding such audit, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.


﻿- 5 -
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of the Municipality thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the Municipality thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been dtily given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.                82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the Municipality:
Communaut6 de Libreville
B.P. 44
Libreville, Gabon


﻿-6-
Telex:
5544 GO
Copy to:
Minist&re de 1'Economie,
de la Planification, du Redressement
*du Secteur Parapublic et de la Privatisation
B.P. 172
Libreville, Gabon
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitte& to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Municipality may be taken or executed by
the mayor of Libreville or such other person or persons as the mayor
shall designate in writing, and the Municipality shall furnish to
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 7 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /4/ Faotc"CADL               h~4z
Regional Vice President
Africa
MUNICIPALITY OF LIBREVILLE
By /4                               t
Authorized Representative


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement of Works and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Works
Part A:      Procurement Procedures
(a)    Works may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)    For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid shall
provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased
for each week of delay by a predisclosed correction factor
acceptable to the Bank. Such an increase shall not be taken into
account in the bid evaluation.
Part B:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)    With respect to: (i) each contract awarded during the
first twelve months after Effective Date; (ii) works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (iii) contracts for
which less than four acceptable bids have been received, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in 1992 (the Guidelines) shall apply. Where
payments for such contracts are to be made out of the Special
Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contracts, required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d), shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of Special Account
(B) in respect of such contracts.
(b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contracts are to be made out of Special Account (B), such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contracts, together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be


﻿- 9 -
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)    The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Municipality in carrying out Part E of
the Project, the Municipality shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Municipality shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, the Municipality shall use other standard forms agreed
with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $25,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms;
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contracts value to $50,000 equivalent
or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of
individual consultants raising the contract value to $25,000
equivalent or above.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
MAR SEC    E   RY


