Document of
The World Bank                         FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONSLY
Report No.P-2703-LBR
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTICN AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR',
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
September 18, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrance of
their ofdicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriktIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Lib. $1.00
The official monetary unit is the Liberian dollar, with par
value equal to that of the US dollar. Apart from the Liberian
dollar, the US dollar is a legal tender in Liberia.
GOVERNMENT OF LIBERIA - FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
bb     -     barrel (159 liters)
b/d    -     barrel per day
JCF    -     J. C. Ferrand and Associates
LEC    -     Liberia Electricity Corporation
LPRC   -     Liberia Petroleum Refining Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Liberia.
Amount:           US$5.0 million equivalert.
Terms:            20 years, including 5 years of grace, at 9.25 percent interest
per annum.
Prolect
Description:    The project aims at attracting oil companies to take
oil exploration permits in Liberia, where no exploration
has taken place since 1972.  Studies conducted recently
have concluded that Liberia's petroleum potential remains
to be established; both seismic studies and the analysis
of the samples of the four wells that were drilled indi-
cate the possibility of finding hydrocarbons. The project
consists of (i) a new seismic survey of Liberia's offshore,
the computer processing, interpretation and integration of
the new data; (ii) consulting services for the promotion,
auction and negotiation of new exploration permits; (iii)
technical assistance for energy planning; and (iv) technical
assistance to the Bureau of Hydrocarbon of the Ministry of
Lands and Mines. The project dDes not face any major risks.
The financial exposure of the G',vernment is likely to be
greatly diminished through the sale of a report on Liberia's
offshore prospects to oil compaaies. There is already a
significant industry interest in the report.
This document hu a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discDsed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: 1/
In Thousand US$
Local    Foreign    Total
A.  Project Preparation Financed under PPF                        900        900
B. Seismic Survey, Interpretation and Report
Preparation
Data Acquisition                                    -       1,510     1,510
Data Processing and Interpretation
Geology and Geophysics                           -      1,484      1,484
Other                                               -         180       180
Subtotal:                                        -      3,174      3,174
C.  Promotion, Auction and Negotiations of Bids                   427        427
D.  Technical Assistance                              100         875        875
Total Base Cost                                       100       5,376     5,476
Contingencies
Physical                                                -         337       337
Price                                                  10         177        187
Subtotal:                                       10        514        524
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                    110       5,890      6,000
1/   Excluding any custom duties and taxes from which the project is exempted.



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Expenditures
(US$ Million)
Local       Foreign        Total
Government                              0.1           0.9           1.0
IBRD                                                  5.0           5.0
Total                              0.1           5.9           6.0
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Million)
FY81        FY82          FY83
Bank Loan
Annual                                        4,200        600           200
Cumulative                                    4,200      4,800         5,000
HAP:  (IBRD 14877).
No separate Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOIION PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$5.0 million to the Republic of Liberia to help
finance a petroleum  exploration promotion project..  The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 9.25 percent
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic mission visited Liber:xa in March 1973.  Its
report, "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Liberia" (426a-LBR),
was distributed to the Executive Directors. An updating report, entitled
"Liberia: Current Economic Situation and Prospects" (No. 2662-LBR), was
also distributed to the Executive Directors on December 28, 1979. An
economic mission visited Liberia in July 1980 to review the current economic
situation and its principal findings are included in the following paragraphs.
Structural Characteristics
3.         The growth of Liberia's economy remains heavily dependent on the
performance of the enclave sector consisting mainly of: (a) iron ore mines,
(b) rubber plantations, and (c) forestry concessions. These enclaves are the
main source of export earnings. Iron ore mining is by far the largest single
activity in the enclave sector, accounting for about one-third of gross
domestic product at factor cost. There are only limited linkages between the
enclaves and the rest of the economy; as a result, the benefits of economic
growth have been unevenly distributed.
4.         Another dimension of structural imbalaace is the disparity between
traditional agriculture and the (monetized) modern sector. Traditional agri-
culture has minimal inter-action with the rest of the economy; however, it
supports the majority of the population - as much as 60 percent - who live at
or near subsistence level. With a population of about 1.7 million, average
per capita GNP in 1979 is estimated at US$500. While the enclave sector
yields a per capita GNP of about US$1,620 compared to US$780 for the rest of
the monetized economy, the great majority of the population who live in the
traditional non-monetized sector have a per capita income of about US$160 per
annum.



-2-
Development Plan and General Economic Policy
5.        Liberia-s First Four-Year Development Plan, covered the period
July I' 1976 to June 30, 1980. The Plan was prepared with the assis-
tance of a planning team financed jointly by the Bank, the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP), the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) and the Government (Reference: President's Memorandum
to the Executive Directors, No. R74-61 dated March 25, 1974). The Plan was
intended as first of a series of multi-year investment programs aimed at
meeting the basic, long-term objectives of Liberia-s socio-economic develop-
ment which were stated as: (a) diversification of production; (b) dispersion
of sustainable socio-economic activities throughout the country; (c) greater
involvement of Liberians in development activities; and (d) equitable dis-
tribution of the benefits of economic growth. The average annual growth
of real GDP during the Plan period was envisaged at around 6.8 percent.
However, because of delays in the implementation of expected investments in
iron ore mining and slackening in demand for the country's main exports, and
diversion of plan allocations towards non-productive projects, real growth
during the four-year period is unlikely to exceed 1-2 percent.
6.        Liberia has already embarked on three important agricultural
development projects in the Bong, Lofa and Nimba counties which are being
assisted by the Bank Group. USAID and the German Government. Other projects
in forestry and rubber are under way which will lead to greater participa-
tion of Liberians in the development of the country's principal agricultural
resources. At the same time, water supply and electric power utilities are
being expanded in both the urban and rural areas and there are plans further
to improve the road network  the inadequacy of which presently constitutes a
constraint to growth. However, the shortage of trained manpower at all
levels and the lack of adequate domestic resources are major constraints to
efforts to develop and diversify the economy. The shortage of skilled,
experienced and trained manpower has become more acute in recent months
following the changes in government as a result of migration abroad, and
many senior officials being held in detention.
7.        Total development expenditure in the original plan was projected at
US$415 million, of which US$251 million was to have been financed from foreign
sources and US$164 million domestically. The Plan was revised in early 1978
to take account of developments during the first two years. The revised
expenditure target was raised to $585 million to reflect increased costs and
to include additional projects.  Preliminary estimates of the actual expendi-
ture indicate that although the revised target of $585 million has been
achieved the composition of investment has deviated significantly from the
planned allocations.  Only 23 percent has gone to the productive sectors
(agriculture and manufacturing), about 30 percent to infrastructure, about 15
percent to social services and remaining 32 percent to general services and
miscellaneous projects. One-fourth of the total plan expenditure was allo-
cated to facilities and buildings for the OAU conference which took place in
July 1979.
8.        Preparation of the second development plan, covering the period
1980-84, was at an advanced stage when the previous Government was



overthrown. The new government will require more time to finalize the Plan
which is now scheduled for completion in July 1981. The general economic
policy statement issued by the Government of the Peoples Redemption Council
on June 5, 1980, however, sets out the broad objectives of the new regime.
The main thrust of the economic policy, according to the statement, is to
expand the country-s productive capacity, especially in agriculture, and to
ensure that benefits from economic growth and development are enjoyed by a
large and increasing number of Liberians. To achieve this end the Govern-
ment intends to encourage local and foreign private investment and give
priority to labor intensive investments. The other significant measures
taken by the new Government since its assumption of office include deci-
sions: (a) to retain the Liberian dollar at par with the US dollar, which
remains legal tender in Liberia; (b) to honor all existing contractual
agreements with foreign private investors and tc change such agreements
only through negotiations with all parties concerned; (c) to withdraw all
currency restrictions temporarily imposed and pErmit free flow of capital,
goods and services; and (d) to regulate labor relations by full protection
of rights of both workers and management.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        During 1973-75 Liberia, like most other developing countries
was hit by higher import prices and international inflation. While strong
world demand for Liberia's major export, iron ore, brought large gains in
export prices in 1974, subsequent recession in the industrialized countries
significantly reduced the demand for the countr7Ks most important export
commodities -- iron ore, rubber and timber -- in the 1975-78 period. With
growth performance continuing to be largely a function of enclave activities,
growth of real GDP -- which averaged about 6.3 ]?ercent a year in the 1967-70
period and 4.2 percent a year in the 1970-74 pe-riod has slowed down signifi-
cantly and is estimated to be about 0.7 percent between 1974 and 1978.
10.       During the 1970-74 period, merchandise exports grew by 14 percent
and imports by about 18 percent annually in current prices. Thereafter,
during 1974-78, mostly reflecting accelerated international inflation,
imports rose by 14 percent annually, exceeding the 5 percent annual export
growth. Oil imports increased from US$15 million in 1973 to US$84 million
in 1978. Between 1975 and 1977 the decline in exports was partly offset by
favorable movement in the terms of trade but the trade surplus declined from
US$110 million in 1974 to a deficit of US$16 million in 1977, while the
current account deficit, reflecting substantial remittances of capital and
other factor income from enclave operations, increased to about US$100
million in 1978 as compared with US$30 million in 1974. The rising current
account deficits were financed mostly by private capital transactions, but
in the last two years, official capital inflows have risen substantially.
The situation improved in 1979 notwithstanding the large increase in oil
imports which reached $100 million. The higher prices of Liberia's major
exports --iron ore and rubber--have helped in achieving a small trade
surplus of US$10.6 million. The growth in impcrts was relatively lower this
year primarily due to termination of OAU Conference related activities.
The increase in aggregate exports, in value terms, was about 10 percent
compared to 1978. The current account deficit is also down to $53.7 million
in 1979.



- 4 -
11.       Liberia has had a long history of sound fiscal management, and
public sector resources did not come under undue pressure until the mid-
1970-s. A satisfactory growth in government revenues averaging about
13.5 percent per year from 1970-75 enabled the Government to finance in-
creasing expenditures. Recurrent expenditures during this period grew by
about 10 percent while development expenditures increased nearly fourfold.
However, public sector finances have come under increased pressure since
1974, and the Government has been facing a growing budgetary deficit. The
deficit in 1975 was only about US$4.0 million, but in FY1979 was US$161
million, or 79 percent of government revenues.
12.       The strain on public sector finances intensified in the fiscal
year 1979-80 and assumed serious proportions in the aftermath of April 12
coup. The decline in public revenues coupled with a decision to increase
the salaries of low-paid military personnel from $100 to $250 per month and
the payment of pending bills from the OAU Conference increased the overall
budgetary deficit from an estimated $56 million to $95 million (9 percent of
GDP) by the end of the fiscal year. The shortfall in revenues was caused
largely by lower import duty collection in the last quarter. The deficit
was mainly financed from IMF resources (about $48 million) under the existing
standby, Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF), Trust Fund arrangements and
heavy short-term internal borrowing. The Government was faced with a
serious liquidity crisis when it approached the IMF in May for further
assistance.
Relations with the IMF
13.       In March 1979, the previous Government had concluded a standby
arrangement with the IMF in the first credit tranche in an amount equivalent
to SDR 9.25 million. The supporting program included restraint in public
expenditure and restrictive credit expansion and external debt policies.
The targets in the program pertaining to revenue performance and the limits
on new public indebtedness were observed. However, the central objective of
moderating the rate of increase in government expenditures was not achieved.
14.       The new Government, after consultation with the IMF, in July 1980,
introduced a stabilization program to support a request for a standby
arrangement for a two-year period in the amount of SDR 65 million (about
US$85 million). In addition, following completion of preparation of a new
development plan, the Government may consider requesting Fund support from
the Extended Fund Facility to supersede the standby arrangement. Major
elements in the stabilization program include: (a) tighter fiscal policies
and stricter control of the financial operations of the public corporations;
(b) import surcharge and other new import duties; (c) sale of Government-
owned Boeing 737; (d) pass on of all future crude oil price increases to
consumers; (e) increase in the excise tax on petroleum products. (f) upward
revision of income tax and excise duty rates; (g) no further wage and salary
increases in 1980/81 beyond the increase for lower paid civil servants
introduced on July 1., 1980; (h) reduced recurrent expenditures; (i) postpone-
ment of a number of development projects; and (k) ban on extra-budgetary
expenditures. Limits would be placed on new borrowings with a maturity of
one to twelve years and on credit to the Government and public sector from



the banking system. The IMF Board is scheduled to consider this program in
mid September. In the meantime a consortium of U.S. commercial banks has
agreed to provide bridge financing to enable th.s country to tide over its
immediate cash flow problems; the Government has also negotiated a roll-over
in short-term credit availability amounting to $75 million for oil imports
during 1980-81.
Creditworthiness
15.       Liberia's external public debt outsta,nding and disbursed was
estimated at about US$454 million as of December 1979. The Bank Group
share of the public debt outstanding and disbursed is presently about 16
percent and is expected to increase to about 25 percent by 1984. As a
proportion of public debt servicing liability, the Bank Group share is
expected to increase from 14 percent to 18 percent over this period. Debt
service payments as a proportion of exports of goods and non-factor services
were estimated at about 10 percent in 1979 as compared to 5.7 and 7.7
percent for 1974 and 1972 respectively. Public debt service payments as a
percentage of Government revenues (a more meaningful indicator for Liberia
which uses the US dollar as a medium of exchange) declined from about 24
percent in 1972 and 21 percent in 1974 to 16.5 percent in 1978, but have
again gone up to 23 percent in 1980. This upsurge in debt servicing ratio
has occured primarily due to some short-maturity loans contracted by Liberia
in the last few years for financing OAU-related expenditure and meeting the
growing budgetary deficits. In the short run, this increase in debt ser-
vicing liability has created severe pressures on Liberia's public finances.
The Government plans therefore to seek the assi3tance of the Paris Club to
obtain debt rescheduling of US$20 million during the current fiscal year.
If this is granted the debt service as a ratio of budgetary revenue would
decline to 15 percent in 1980/81.
16.       Assuming a continuation of the recent low rate of growth in public
revenues and exports (7 percent and 5 percent per annum, respectively)
Liberia's debt service ratios are estimated to Increase to about 25 percent
of public revenues and 12 percent of exports by 1985; whilst high, this debt
service burden would remain manageable. However, there should be an improve-
ment in the country s economic prospects over the next few years. The
growth in export earnings should be higher than in the immediate past as a
result of the recent strengthening in the demand for iron ore and an increase
in iron ore prices. Also the forecasts for natural rubber prices indicate a
consistently upward movement and Liberia may also expect higher yields from
the recently replanted acreage and new plantings of rubber. Other on-going
agriculture projects (particularly for coffee, cocoa, palm oil) and success-
ful exploration and development of other mining resources, including gold
and barite, will help diversify the economy and should result in an accelera-
tion in the rate of growth of exports during the next three to four years.
Public revenues will benefit from these increased export earnings and new
taxation measures currently under consideration by the Government. At the
same time, a reduction in the size of the Government budget deficit, re-
straints on new commercial borrowings, and increased mobilization of Govern-
ment revenues, may be expected as a result of implementation of the new



-6-
stabilization program. Thus, although Liberia has acute short-term liqui-
dity problems, the country's improved export and public finance prospects,
justify continued Bank lending combined with assistance from IDA.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
17.       The Bank has made 19 loans (including one Third Window loan) for
projects in Liberia totalling US$130.7 million; there have been 8 IDA
credits totalling US$44 million and one technical assistance grant of
US$200,000 for development planning. IFC has made two equity investments
totalling US$550,000 in the share capital of the Liberian Bank for Develop-
ment and Investment (LBDI). The Bank Group assistance has been for roads,
agriculture, rural development, power, education, water supply, DFC and
ports. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and
IFC investments as of June 30, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects. Many of the on-going Bank Group-financed projects were adversely
affected in various ways by the disruption which followed the overthrow of the
previous Government; however, there has been some improvement in the situation
more recently.
18.       The objectives of Bank Group operations are:  (a) to help Liberians
take greater initiative in developing their own resources for the benefit
of their own people; (b) to support policies and programs leading to a
broader distribution of the benefits of economic growth; (c) to help the
Government in broadening the economic base and in overcoming infrastructural
constraints to growth; and (d) to assist the Government in mobilizing devel-
opment resources from other external agencies. In furthering these objec-
tives particular attention is being paid to (a) the need to expand the
supply of trained manpower so as to relieve this constraint to development;
and (b) measures to strengthen and improve the operations and finances of
the public corporations in Liberia.
19.       In support of the objectives of raising the standard of living
of lower income groups and broadening the productive base, the Bank Group
lending program is giving increasing emphasis to agricultural and rural
development. The Bank Group is co-financing with USAID two agricultural
projects currently under implementation in Bong and Lofa Counties. These
projects are designed to assist subsistence farmers to diversify their
production base and to increase their productivity and income through the
provision of support services and infrastructure and to help diversify the
country's export and revenue base. A rubber project, which is being
implemented with assistance from the Bank Group and Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC), will lead to expanded exports, increased productivity and
incomes for small and medium size farmers through strengthening credit and
extension services and promotion of greater Liberian participation in the
development of this subsector. The ongoing forestry project will strengthen
the Government's forest service, initiate an industrial plantation program
and help Liberia to better manage and exploit its forestry resources. The
oil palm project, approved in October 1979, will help expand and diversify
the country's export and revenue base, provide employment, increase the
income level of rural families, and strengthen the institutional capability



of the country for oil palm development. Further Bank Group assistance to
the sector being considered would include a second phase of the Lofa County
project and a rural development project in the southeastern region of
Liberia which would help increase agricultural production, improve physical
and social infrastructure in selected low income rural areas and strengthen
the local capability for planning and implementai:ion of rural development
projects.
20.       In addition to its support for agriculture, the Bank Group is
also assisting the Government in its diversification efforts through exist-
ing lines of credit to the Liberia Bank for Deve'Lopment and Investment
(LBDI) for the manufacturing sector. Further assistance to the sector is
being considered and a project for a proposed liine of crelit and technical
assistance for development of medium- and smali-scale industries will be
submitted to the Executive Directors shortly. A mining project is under
preparation involving the rehabilitation of the Mano River mine operated by
the National Iron Ore Company (NIOC) which is 50 percent owned by the Govern-
ment of Liberia. The preparation of this project is being financed under the
Project Preparation Facility. The proposed petrDleum exploration promotion
project aims at attracting oil companies to take oil exploration permits in
Liberia, where no exploration has taken place since 1972, with a view to
establishing Liberia's hydrocarbon potential.
21.       In infrastructure, a water supply project was approved in December
1978 which is designed to he'n rehab4litate and expand the Monrovia water
supply system, extend water distribution to lower income groups in the
metropolitan areas, and strengthen the manaLgement, staffing, and finances of
the Liberian Water and Sewer Corp'oration.  The feeder roads project, ap-
proved in February 1979, is desigtned to open up the agricultural hinterland
of Liberia in support of the ongoing and proposed agricultural and rural de-
velopment Drograms. A fifth highway project Is under consideration to
improve the country's road maintenance capability and reconstruct sections
of maiii roads in the agricultural interior. In the power sector, a fourth
power project was approved in June 1978 which would expand the Liberia
Electricity Corporation's thermal power generating facilities to meet demand
until a new hydro-electricity generacing facility has been constructed and
made operational around 1985. The project also includes management and
training assistance to LEC and service connecticns to about 5,000 urban poor
households in Monrovia.
22.       In the social sectors, three educationL projects have been financed
by the Bank Group. The first two projects aimed at improving secondary
education, education planning and management, a< well as extending the
educational system to rural areas through the provision of secondary schools
and 100 village community schools. The third project emphasizes vocational
and technical training. The Bank has recently Lndertaken a study of the
country's education, training and manpower planning needs and ways in which
to augment the supply of trained manpower. The results of this study will
form the basis for preparing a proposed fourth education project which, in
addition to improving facilities for improved manpower training, will also
aim to upgrade primary and secondary education in the rural areas. Also in
the social sectors, an urban development project: is under preparation which



-8-
will upgrade low-income shelter in the Monrovia area through improved
infrastructure facilities and strengthen local institutions for urban
management.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources and Consumption
23.       The only significant indigenous energy resource of Liberia is
presently hydroelectric power. Installed hydroelectric generating capacity
amounts to 68 MW, or about 24% of the total generating capacity in Liberia;
the firm hydroelectric generating capacity is very low because of lack of
storage. Substantial hydroelectric potential remains to be developed; the
ultimate firm generating capacity was estimated recently at 750 MW and at
7,400 GWh average annual production capability. Various studies are now
underway for future hydro developments.
24.       The installed electricity generating capacity of 280 MW is shared
about equally by the mining companies and the Liberia Electricity Corpora-
tion, in charge of public supply. Total power generation in 1976 amounted
to 1,004 GWh, of which 71% was for industrial uses (mostly iron ore mining)
and 29% for public supply. There are approximately 15,000 domestic connec-
tions, practically all in the large urban centers along the coast. Under
the Bank's Fourth Power Project (Loan 1600-LBR), efforts are being made to
improve the access of the urban poor to electricity.
25.       Liberia is also well endowed in forestry resources; about half of
the land is covered by forests. Wood and charcoal are therefore important
sources of energy, both in urban and rural areas. Practically no data have
so far been gathered in Liberia on quantities, prices, environmental impact,
specific uses, etc. of wood used for domestic consumption. The Forestry
Development Authority, which is the beneficiary of a FY1979 IDA Credit
(Credit 839-LBR), is presently involved in the construction of experimental
kilns to manufacture charcoal. Charcoal is the preferred source of energy
for domestic cooking.
26.       Liberia currently imports all its requirements in crude oil; some
oil products are also imported. Annual consumption of oil products is
presently 4 million barrels (equivalent to 11,000 b/d). The mining compa-
nies, which use mostly fuel oil and diesel oil in their operations, account
for approximately half of the total consumption, and public power generation
(diesel oil) for another 10%. The balance is used mostly for transportation
(gasoline, diesel oil and jet fuel).
27.       Total consumption of oil products has been increasing in recent
years by approximately 3.5% per annum, but is expected to increase at an
average of 10% annually over the next three years, particularly because of
the contemplated expansion in mining activities. Oil imports, at a level of
US$100 million per annum in 1979, account for 20% of total imports. This
compares with less than 7% in 1972. Virtually all oil products consumed in



- 9 -
Liberia are supplied by the Liberia Petroleum Refining Company (LPRC), which
is now in the public sector. The refinery has a capacity of 15,000 b/d, and
plans to increase the capacity are now under consideration.
28.       Because of political and social considerations, the prices of
electricity and oil products have been maintained until recently at low
levels. In the case of electricity, serious dil'ficulties were also encoun-
tered in collecting bills. However, under the Fourth Power Project steps are
now being taken to restore the financial viabil:Lty of the Liberia Electricity
Corporation (LEC). Because of operational diff:Lculties and low prices, the
refinery operated at a loss in 1978/79, but the Government has since permitted
the refinery to pass along the increases in the price of crude oil, so that
the refinery should operate profitably in 1979/80. In January 1980, prices
were US$2.0/gallon for premium gasoline, US$1.6'7/gallon for kerosene, and
US$1.67/gallon for diesel oil. Diesel oil is u3ed by the mining companies and
for public electricity generation. As part of .he stabilization program being
discussed with IMF, the Government intends to p.ss on all future crude oil
price increases and increase the excise tax on ?etroleum products.
Institutional Aspects
29.       The Ministry of Lands and Mines, in collaboration with the National
Investment Commission, has broad responsibilitias ranging from the monitoring
of the mining companies and the exploration and development of new mining
ventures to alluvial (mostly diamond) mining, land surveys, mapping and
cartography, environmental and pollution control, geological surveys, etc.
Oil exploration comes under the Bureau of Hydrocarbons of that Ministry.
30.       Despite its vast responsibilities, the resources of the Ministry
of Lands and Mines are very limited - for instance, its recurrent and capital
budgets in 1978 amounted to US$2.3 million and US$0.35 million respectively,
equivalent to 1.5% and 0.4% of the corresponding total government budgets.
The Bureau of Hydrocarbons has altogether a staff of six, including two
professionals, with little experience in oil exploration matters.
31.       The National Investment Commission (NIC), created by a legislative
act in September 1979, is empowered, inter alia, to (a) provide general
policy guidance in the formulation of plans for the promotion of investments;
(b) receive, evaluate and process investment applications and conclude all
investment agreements in collaboration with relevant Ministries and Agencies
of Government; and (c) cooperate with all Ministries and Agencies of Govern-
ment in the implementation of investment agreenents.
32.       The Liberia Petroleum Refining Compary (LPRC) reports to a Board of
Directors and operates under a management contract with Resource Development
Services, a subsidiary of Combustion Engineering (U.S.). LPRC is managed by a
Board made up of the Ministers of Lands and Mires (Chairman), Finance, Commerce,
Without Portfolio, the Controller General, Managing Director of LPRC, and a
businessman. The full-time staff is composed cf 15 expatriates (under the
management contract) and 225 Liberians.



- 10 -
33.        Public power supply comes under the responsibility of the Li
Electricity Corporation (LEC) to which the Bank has made four loans, the
last one in 1978. LEC comes under a Board of Directors chaired by the
Minister of Public Works.
34.        Until recently, there was no single entity in charge of planniy g
and coordinating the energy sector as a whole. Aware of the need for a
mechanism to formulate energy policy, the Government established in October
1979 an Energy Committee, chaired by the Minister of Lands and Mines.
While the increasing cost of oil products has had a growing impact on the
economy in recent years, no coordinated efforts have been made to collect
basic data on other energy sources (particularly wood which is plentiful in
Liberia) and evaluate the economic feasibility of increasing their use.
Further, policies aimed at containing the growth of consumption of oil
products, other than price increases, have yet to be introduced. The
Government has recently requested the Bank to assist in the formulation or
policies in the energy field (para. 45, item(d)(iv)).
Hydrocarbon-related Geology and Status of Exploration
35.        Almost all of the onshore area of Liberia is covered by basement
rocks consisting of a pre-Cambrian crystalline shield with intrusions of
younger basaltic flows. Only two small onshore areas, designated the
Roberts and Bassa Basins, have a sedimentary section of sufficient thickness
to have any petroleum potential (see Map IBRD 14877). No wells have been
drilled in this area. Outcrops of sediments in this basin consist of a
pre-Jurassic age sand and shale sequence overlain in some localities by a
Jurassic age diabase. Above these formations are sediments of Cretaceo us
and Tertiary age composed primarily of shales, siltstones and sands, with
occasional stringers of limestone. Gravity and seismic surveys demonstrate
that this sedimentary basin continues offshore and increases in thickness
onto the continental shelf. Four wells drilled in the offshore area co-nfirm
that the sedimentary sequence there is similar to the sequence found onshore.
Seismic work also indicates a sedimentary section continuing and thickening
off the continental slope into the deep waters of the Atlantic. The entire
shelf area covers approximately 24,000 sq. km. Including the deep waters,
this area would be more than doubled.
36.        Active exploration for petroleum began in Liberia in the late
1960-s. An aeromagnetic survey was conducted in 1967. The following year
a reconnaissance reflection seismic survey was conducted offshore. In
April 1969, the Liberian Government established a Petroleum Code and shortly
thereafter divided the offshore into four concession blocks which were awarded
to oil companies for exploration. From 1969 through 1972 an active seismic
program was undertaken by the companies. In 1971, four wells were drilled
in the concession areas. All were drilled on large structures revealed by
seismic surveys. Two of the wells were drilled by Union Carbide, one by
Chevron and one by Frontier. All four wells failed to show commercial poten-
tial and the concessions were relinquished by the companies in 1972, although
three wells indicated the presence of hydrocarbons.
37.        The results of these four wells and the seismic work confirmed the
presence of a relatively thick sedimentary section offshore (up to 15,000 ft).



- 11 -
Two of the wells also revealed the presence of basalt flows intermixed with
the sediments, although the other two wells did not encounter any volcanics.
All of the wells had shows of hydrocarbons throughout the Lower Cretaceous,
and scattered shows in both older and younger sediments.
38.       The oil companies which carried out exploration programs in
Liberia, and drilled the four wells, were primarily interested in finding
large structures, since under economic conditions prevailing at that time,
with oil selling below US$3/bbl, smaller deposit:s could not be commercially
developed. They therefore decided to abandon their efforts in Liberia (and
several other countries along the West African coast), and concentrate their
efforts elsewhere. No exploration activity has taken place in Liberia since
1972. In the course of the preparation of this project (para. 39), past
exploration data were gathered and reinterpreted, and, while the prospects
for discovering large structures appear dim, application of the latest
techniques in geology, geophysics and geochemist:ry suggest that Liberia's
hydrocarbon potential deserves to be reexamined.
39.       Despite lack of commercial success in the four wells drilled,
certain positive elements have been established by the exploration which has
been done. These positive elements are:
(a)  A reasonably thick sedimentary section exists at least in some
areas offshore Liberia, as proved from the seismic and the
four wells drilled.
(b) It appears from the studies currently underway that the wells
drilled in the past, with the objective of finding large deposits,
were intentionally located on what appeared at the time to be
large possible structures. However, there are other locations
where smaller accumulations which could be commercial under current
economic conditions are more likely, as the sedimentary sequence
where the wells were drilled shows less thickness in those areas.
(c) Structural and stratigraphic traps exist in other areas, as mapped
from seismic surveys. Though their size will probably be smaller
compared to the structures drilled in the past, these traps are
better located for the development of good reservoirs within
thicker sedimentary formations.
(d) Reservoir sands do exist offshore Liberia as proven in the four
wells that were drilled.
(e)  Source rocks capable of generating hydrocarbons exist in the
form of shales with a high organic carbon content. This type
of organic material would appear to be more prone to generation
of gas than oil, but some oil has been formed.
(f) Sufficient heat has been present, in the past to have converted the
organic carbon in the shales to hydrccarbons, both oil and gas.
Based upon the above factors, it would seem that a hydrocarbon potential does
exist offshore Liberia. On the shelf area itsElf, it is unlikely that large



- 12 -
fields (over 100 million barrels) will be found because of the limited size
of the basins, the limited number and size of the structural traps, and the
inconsistent quality of the reservoir rocks. Smaller fields of less than 50
million barrels could very well exist, however, in the structural and
stratigraphic traps present within the basins. Some fields of comparable
size have been discovered in the past few years in neighbouring countries
(Ivory Coast, Ghana, Benin) in a generally similar set of geologic environ-
mental conditions. On the continental slope in the deeper waters, the
potential is completely unknown since no drilling has ever been done in this
part of Africa. It is known from the few existing seismic lines that a
sedimentary section is present in these areas. If large structures are
present here, as they are in the deeper waters in many other parts of the
world, it is possible that large accumulations of oil could be present.
Taking into account the high costs and technical constraints of exploration
in the deep waters, exploration is most likely to resume initially in the
continental shelf.
40.       Over the past three years, several companies have expressed interest
in taking exploration permits in Liberia; the conditions they offered were
deemed unattractive by the Government since they committed themselves to
seismic surveys with only an option to drill. Some companies were, in effect,
brokers or promoters who expected to farm out their exploration rights for a
percentage of future production. As a result, the Government approached the
Bank in early 1978, and the preparation of the project was initiated in
February 1979, following the approval by the Board of the new policy regarding
the acceleration of petroleum exploration in developing countries.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
41.       The proposed project was identified by the Government, prepared
by consultants, and appraised in January 1980. Negotiations were held in
Washington on March 24, 1980, and the Liberian delegation was led by
Honorable Minister Cletus S. Wotorson, the then Minister of Lands and Mines.
Key events and special conditions are presented in Annex III. No Staff
Appraisal Report has been prepared.
Project Objectives
42.       The main objective of the proposed project is to attract foreign
investments in petroleum exploration offshore Liberia under conditions
which would ensure maximum work commitment and early commencement of drill-
ing and would be equitable from the point of view of the evaluation of the
potential and prevailing worldwide contractual terms. This would be achieved
by (i) generating new data in the hope of demonstrating prospects for commer-
cial production offshore Liberia under current economic conditions and (ii)
setting up a competitive bidding process among oil companies for further
concessions. Another objective is to provide Liberia, through technical
assistance, adequate means of negotiating exploration agreements, monitoring
the activity of oil companies and maintaining an exploration data bank which



- 13 -
would integrate past and future data and enable -he Government to continuously
reevaluate the petroleum potential of the Liberian offshore and adjust its
exploration policy accordingly. Since explorati3n is a continuous process,
the proposed project should be seen as the first step towards the evaluation
of the ultimate recoverable hydrocarbon potential of Liberia.
Project Preparation
43.     Recent exploration in countries with conditions similar to Liberia
has demonstrated that, despite the lack of success in the first round of
exploration, a potential for smaller accumulations than those originally
sought, exists. Therefore, the first step in preparing the project was to
assess with modern technology whether the results of past exploration could
be acquired, reprocessed, and reinterpreted to assess the presence of
exploration leads that had not been detected by the oil companies or which
could not be identified with the technology available in the early 1970s.
On the advice of the Bank, the Government decidEd to appoint a consultant
who would: (i) collect and assemble all data orL past exploration campaigns;
(ii) reprocess selected seismic tapes 1/; (iii) integrate and interpret the
information; (iv) review to what extent the existing legal and contractual
framework reflects Liberia-s prospects and current international practice;
and (v) on the basis of the evaluation of the prospects, recommend a strategy
for Liberia to follow. In accordance with Bank procedures, the Government
sought offers from consulting firms, based on terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, and J. C. Ferrand and Associates (JCF), a U.S. consulting firm,
was appointed in June 1979 to carry out the above studies.  JCF's services
were financed under a US$900,000 advance under the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF).
44.       Difficulties were encountered initially in the collection of the
data, particularly because much of the data provided by the oil companies
to the Government had not been properly stored. Subsequently JCF obtained
directly from the oil companies essential documents, seismic tapes and
samples from the wells. In January 1980, JCF presented its main conclusions
which were: (i) the analysis of past exploration data indicates that the
possibility of hydrocarbon accumulation exists; (ii) in view of the small
magnitude of past exploration efforts (only four wells have been drilled),
Liberia's hydrocarbon potential remains to be established; (iii) in order to
attract oil companies, the best course of acticn for Liberia to follow would
be to carry out a seismic survey of its offshore, using the latest techniques
in data gathering and processing to integrate the seismic surveys which were
carried out in the early 70's by five different companies, and confirm the
presence of exploration leads that had been identified by the reprocessing;
and (iv) the legal and contractural framework Ehould be updated, not only
to reflect Liberia's prospects, but also to reflect current fiscal arrange-
ments governing oil exploration. The Bank concurs with these conclusions.
1/   Seismic surveys are an essential step in the oil exploration cycle as
they enable the identificaton of structures where accumulations of
hydrocarbons could exist. After the data have been collected, they are
processed in computers. Considerable progress has been made in these
techniques over the past 10 years. The tapes reprocessed in Liberia were
of data gathered over 1970-1972.



- 14 -
Project Description
45.       The proposed project would contain the following components:
(a) Evaluation of Hydrocarbon Potential
and Formulation of Exploration Strategy
The preparation of the project involved consulting services to
(i) collect and analyze past exploration data; (ii) integrate
and interpret these data; (iii) review the contractual/legal
framework; and (iv) recommend a strategy for Liberia to follow.
The advance under the PPF would be refinanced under the proposed
loan.
(b) Seismic Survey, Interpretation and Report Preparation
The project would include a 2,500 km seismic survey of Liberia-s
offshore, aimed particularly at areas where prospects appear
likely, and where insufficient data are presently available.
It would cover mostly the continental shelf (up to 200 m
depth), but certain lines would be aimed at the deeper
offshore (up to 1,000 m). The data obtained through the
survey would be computer-processed, interpreted, and inte-
grated with the rest of the available data. The results
would be set out in two reports, one of a general nature
given on request, and the other containing the detailed
results, to be sold to oil companies.
(c) Promotion, Auction and Negotiation of Bids
Once the reports mentioned above have been prepared, it
is proposed, following industry practice, to set up promo-
tional seminars in the U.S. and Europe, where the oil companies
will be informed of the nature and scope of the efforts that
have been made in the past, and where explanations will be
given on Liberia-s prospects. Simultaneously, the petroleum
code will be amended as required, model contracts will be
prepared, and oil companies will be asked to submit bids for
exploration permits on Liberia's offshore. Finally, the Govern-
ment would be assisted in its direct negotiations with oil compa-
nies by the provision of technical and legal expertise financed
under the loan.
(d) Technical Assistance
It is proposed to provide technical assistance for:
(i) Monitoring of oil companies: this involves two man-years
for a resident petroleum geologist to help supervise and
monitor the activities of oil companies, after exploration
permits have been awarded, together with ten man-months of
specialists (geophysics, drilling, interpretation, finance) who
would visit Liberia as required. A condition of disbursement



-15 -
for this item would be that at least one oil company has been
awarded an exploration permit (draft Loan Agreement; Schedule
I, para. 4);
(ii) Equipment: this involves the setting up of a library and the
acquisition of micro-film facilities to store the data
collected during project preparation and future data submited
by oil companies, so that sufficient data will be available
in Monrovia to assess, at any time, the hydrocarbon potential
of a particular area (this is not: the case at present);
(iii)  Training:  it is proposed to finance 5 man-years of training in
geology, geophysics and petroleurm economics, both at universi-
ties and with the industry. This; is considered reasonable
taking into account the anticipated requirements of Liberia,
and the availability of suitable candidates 1/; and
(iv) Assistance in Energy Planning; iD. is proposed to finance an
energy specialist, on a two-year contract, to assist the
Government in all aspects of ener-gy planning including: (i)
establishing a data base on energy and the development of an
energy balance sheet; (ii) formuLating policies in the
energy field including policies in pricing, conservation,
energy efficiency, the potential for energy substitution; and
(iii) assisting in their implementation including the selection
and review of pilot projects, feasibility studies and other
domestic research. The Government gives high priority
to rational energy planning, and suggested its inclusion in
this project.
Project Costs and Financing
46.       The total cost of the Project, including project preparation
financed by an advance under the PPF, is estimated at US$6.0 million,
excluding duties and taxes from which the Project is exempted. The for-
eign cost is estimated at US$5.9 million. Details of project costs for each
component and the financing plan are given in the Loan and Project Summary.
The cost estimate is based on mid-1980 prices. With respect to the seismic
survey, and computer processing, costs are based on quotations from the
industry. The rest of the project involves the following consulting ser-
vices: 6 man-months for the supervision of the seismic survey (including
data processing); 34 man-months for the interpretation of the data and the
preparation of reports; 16 man-months for the preparation, auction and
negotiation of offshore permits (excluding the legal assistance which is
based on a lump-sum); and 58 man-months for the technical assistance compo-
nent. The average man-month cost (including salary, fees, international
travel and subsistence) is expected to be US$l(,000 (at mid-1980 prices).
The apparent high cost estimate can be explained by the high caliber of the
1/   Training was already initiated at the pro;ject preparation phase -
a Liberian has been added to JCF-s team, aLnd is now associated
with the interpretation of geological and geophysical data.



- 16 -
staff required for the different assignments, the high level of salaries in
the oil industry, and the relatively large number of experts to be employed
on short assignments (from two to six weeks). This estimate was initially
prepared by JCF, and subsequently confirmed through Bank Staff knowledge of
fees charged by several other firms for this type of work. Physical contin-
gencies of 10 percent are primarily expected to cover additional seismic
testing which cannot be estimated precisely at this time.   Since the bulk
of the project will be completed by mid-1981, provisions for price contingen-
cies are relatively small and involve mainly the technical assistance
components. A 10 percent per annum escalation factor has been applied, and
is considered sufficient.
47.       The proposed Bank loan of US$5.0 million would finance 83.3% of
the total project cost. This amount would include US$900,000 to reimburse
an advance under the PPF to cover the cost of consulting services for
project preparation. The US$1.0 million balance of the project-s cost would
be financed by the Government.
Project Implementation
48.       Project implementation would start in the fourth quarter of 1980,
and it is expected that oil companies would be awarded the first exploration
permits by mid-1981. The Project should be substantially completed by mid-1983.
The entity in charge of project implementation would be the Ministry of Lands
and Mines, Bureau of Hydrocarbons. In view of the technical complexity of the
project and the large number of experts required, it is proposed to employ a
petroleum consulting firm to help project implementation. The consulting firm
would be responsible for helping the Government in all activities directly
related to oil exploration, i.e. supervision of the seismic survey and of com-
puter processing, data integration and interpretation, the bidding of off-shore
blocks, the seminars for the oil companies, and the negotiations with oil
companies. The petroleum consulting firm would be appointed by October 1980,
and the seismic survey, which would be undertaken by a separate specialized
firm, would be carried out over November-December 1980. The Government would
secure the services of a law firm to review, in collaboration with the
petroleum consulting firm, the petroleum code, prepare model contracts and,
as necessary, assist in negotiations with oil companies. Regarding the
monitoring of the activities of the oil companies, after exploration permits
have been awarded, the Government will recruit, on an individual basis, the
resident petroleum geologist, and, together with him, make appropriate arrange-
ments for the visits of short-term specialists. The energy specialist would
also be recruited on an individual basis.
Procurement and Disbursement
49.       The contract for the seismic survey would be awarded following
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group procurement
guidelines. Equipment for the library, estimatd to cost about US$100,000
would be procured in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. For computer processing, quotations would be obtained from several
firms. The contracts will be relatively small, as it is expected that two or



- 17 -
three firms 1/ will actually perform the reprocess3ing. The selection of
consultants would be carried out in accordance with Bank procedures. Dis-
bursements would be made against 80% of total expenditures (excluding project
preparation financed under the PPF) which would ba fully documented.
Accounts and Reports
50.       Separate accounts will be maintained for the project, and reports,
satisfactory to the Bank, will be submitted on a quarterly basis, giving the
progress of the work.
Benefits and Risks
51.       The proposed project is the result of studies that sought to iden-
tify the alternatives open to Liberia, in order to attract oil companies to
resume oil exploration. These studies have concluded that there is a possi-
bility of discovering hydrocarbons that could be economically developed. A
strategy Liberia could have followed would have been to go straight into
negotiations with oil companies, without resorting to a seismic survey. After
a careful evaluation of the results of the preparation phase of the project,
and following contacts with the oil industry, there is little doubt that oil
companies will demonstrate a much higher level of interest if new data based
on the application of the latest techniques in geology and geophysics are
available. This should result in greater work ccmmitments from oil companies,
including drilling, which is the key condition fcr an early discovery.
52.       The main risk of the project therefore lies in the possibility
that, after an expenditure of US$6 million, oil companies would still not take
oil exploration permits in Liberia. This is howEver unlikely to happen in
view of the higher level of interest oil companies are now showing in the West
African coast. The financial exposure of Liberia., in any event, is expected
to be considerably reduced through the sale of rEports to oil companies.
Similar reports are selling for about US$250,000 each, so that Liberia should
be able to recover most, if not all, the funds irLvested in the project.
Several companies have already indicated their irLterest in acquiring the
report.
53.       Assuming that the results of the seism:c survey and subsequent
discussions with oil companies are favorable, additional expenditures for
the exploration of hydrocarbon resources, as well as the strengthening of
the Bureau of Hydrocarbons, would be required after 1981. It was, therefore,
agreed that in the use of the proceeds obtained :-rom the sale of the reports
mentioned above, due consideration would be given to the need to strengthen the
Bureau of Hydrocarbons and to explore Liberia's lhydrocarbon resources (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.03).
1/   Computer reprocessing will be done over a 3-month period.  The selection
of the firms often depends on the availability of computer time, and
particular programs, at short notice.



- 18 -
54.       A resumption of oil exploration in Liberia, followed by a significant
discovery, would have a profound and beneficial impact on Liberia-s economy.
If no discovery is made, the project would still provide Liberia with valuable
data on its hydrocarbon potential, which should be extremely useful in helping
Liberia decide on possible further courses of action. A negative outcome of
the next round of exploration would not necessarily conclude exploration off-
shore, since new leads could be identified through improved technology within
the limit of the 200 m water depth, or technology could be developed which
would make it possible to explore and hopefully develop the deep offshore.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Liberia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii), of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
56.       In addition to the features of the Loan Agreement which are referred
to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, the award of at least
one exploration permit to an oil company would be a condition of disbursement
for the assistance in monitoring exploration activities (Loan Agreement,
Schedule I, 4(b)).
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
.
Washington, D.C.
September 18, 1980



-19 -                                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
LIBERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LIBERIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGITED AVERiGEI
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             - M05T RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             111.4
AGRICULTURAL        6.1                                  MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /A   AFRICA SOUTH OP SANARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PEN CAPITA (US$)                   160.0        250.0      500.0                 726.2                    1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        86.0        454.0     395.0                  699.4                   1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        1.0          1.3        1.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 20.5           26.2       31.6                  28.9                      63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            9.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2130
POPbLATION DENSITY
PER SQ. IKM.                         9.0         12.0      15.0                   61.7                     28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    163.0          217.0     279.0                  126.0                     81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                           44.8         40.7      47.4                   45.5                     41.4
15-64 YRS.                           52.0         56.0      50.2                   51.6                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.2          3.3       2.4                    2.8                      3.9
kPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.8          3.1        3.3                   2.7                      2.7
URBAN                                 ..          5.6       5.8                    4.9                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER ThOUSAND)       51.0         50.0       51.0                  46.8                     34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       25.0         20.0       18.0                  16.4                      8.9
GROSS REPRODlUCTION RATE                ..          2.6        3.4                   3.2                      2.5
FAhlEY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71'100)            96.0        100.0      96.0                   94.0                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     95.0        97.0      104.0                  92.7                     107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            38.0         41.0      42.0                   53.0                     65.6
OF WHICH ANIHAL AND PULSE          9.0         11.0      10.0                   15.6                     33.7
ChILD (AGES 1-4) hORTALITY RATE       36.0         29.0       23.0                  21.3                      8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    40.0           45.0      48.0                   50.1                     63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        159.0         ..                    ..                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFL WATER (PERCENT OF
POPbLATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..      20.0                   31.0                     65.9
URBAN                                 ..           ..      64.0                   66.8                     80.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..       6.0                     *-                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..      11.0                     ..                     62.3
URBAN                                 ..           ..      35.0                     ..                     79.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..       6.0                     ..                     29.6
PuPELATION PER PHYSICIAN           12267.0/c   11381.0    9259.0                 14508.2                   1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       5610.0/c    9504.0    2904.0                  3279.5                   1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              712.0        573.0     623.0                 1141.5                    480.3
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         27.7
NOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
UREAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL
AVERAGE NLTIBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                1.7/d         ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..



- 20 -                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                    Page  2  of  5  pages
LIBERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LIBERIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV    ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960 lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMEN'T RATIOS
PRIhARY:     TOTAL                  31.0         53.0      57.0                   61.7                     99.7
MALE                  45.0         72.0      74.0                   69.2                    101.0
FEMALE                18.0         35.0      40.0                   51.4                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0          9.0      14.0                   20.6                     34.4
MALE                   3.0         13.0       22.0                  29.2                     33.5
FEMALE                 1.0          4.0        7.0                  14.7                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY)    ..            5.3       3.0                    7.0                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             32.0         36.0      41.0                   36.6                     30.5
SECONDARY                           12.0         17.0        ..                   24.3                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          9.0/e       15.0       73.0                     .                      76:3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0         11.0       8.1                   38.8                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          80.0        108.0     151.0                   83.5                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.5          4.3       5.1                     .8 84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    0.8          6.0       7.6                   24.2                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6            0.6        ..                    0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        380.2        480.5     592.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    33.5         32.5      32.0                   38.1                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               80.0         75.6      71.0                   54.3                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   9.7         11.6      13.0                   17.8                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.3         39.8      38.3                   38.8                     31.5
hALE                                  56.6         54.4      52.7                   48.4                     48.9
FEMALE                                28.1         25.6      24.4                   29.4                     14.0
ECONOhIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.2        1.4                   1.3                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         61.7/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           72.6/.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          5.3/
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         10.9/f
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (Us$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..      75.0                     ..                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     137.0                     ..                    474.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     125.0                     ..                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URbAN                                 ..           ..      23.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                    ..                        ..                                   a
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicatora depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for host Recent Eatimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1964;  /d City of Monrovia only;  /e 1962; Lf Population, higher income calculated as residual;
includes expatriates.
April, 1980



- 21 -                                                                                ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the data ar  Iean    - ran    -ote   generlly judged the  -ut  authri-taino  and reliable, at sho,Al also beotd that they  .anno  be Inte-
Th  refeenc   troupe are  Illho sane toostro  grrupt   h   olo                   or  and -Il 2    uno-ro  ,rn-p  ,u,h so-h-t high-e oorat  Ott-n   than the  -outry  graP
of te sa IntM  ..ne.. Iloo at  o   'tT                                II.aptlhrpoI tpoes   graph'r-'tddle In-s  tNrth Afrira and tiddIe  ta-e  Os th-s  hb-sn    f -r-ng-r
s....-. lintel  ftfi-it-e    .In th. roerettop data  hI:   -anoeale  ate pua at.an nighted  a-othanCcl  sears for eIth  i,dioto  and. .tat nh   only then at
le-s  hail of the  oote   tea  teesy has doa toeta    ofoo      lt  the,111t,d~I.          oueo       otmcolc  mn   h  ndtte  Jepe--ion ey   Fnial teo
of nn Illonoras    tie aong thensty  u   e  trn           I gIeno-t-ps-.h
LAT hotRA  (thousan.d elk.-)                                                                      ,taaunfroo                a -npw-.       I  ....n at-goc  hysneu    reaeon   Pry-
ttl-Tuto1  -faeto    -eo   oprto,,g laud a"c  001Oc  ln aters,                                 i.....an  .   if .-   o    -edo- oak i-an  .t  ---ttrs  tyl-e
lot neops, pannes   mate  od ki-the- gard-n  or uo liealw 11-                 771 dot.-         ea    and !e-al  go-duatenIrnes, pl-tn,a  nnees    Fn taeen    uee
2N   __Pt.  ______                           suton                                               orhaG,Paol tatt.lt drondodI-      thoit respe tinn         -e  of hocpneal bedl
tatlbyaae   -ooec     hnsend on  -itul  Itoh Atlas 111)6971  basis); 1960,                    onoilable  in  ahl-a ond prtno~ t, 0e-ea  al opeIiolte_   hoeptaj and re-
J'~~~ D,atId I978"d.I:-`i ~~~~~~~hohlinaioni -entr-.  O1-nyltot   on  estelisbhe-te peecoecetjy enffed
tyneeaan non phystoton    E-abtinbt-ect   ptodiet princiPallyteete
001500YCONStttPTtIO  PER CAPITA - hnA-1I. t       -enpeti   of toosertio  enegy  tool                tor  at   o   elld           orShslas    oene    nld   cthed meltrat
trilef   o kloras   f toolI oqi-1-e  per  -Ptors; 196C, 1911,  -nd 1975                      os,ttwt     n.)IiSofri-atr   aoendo oadprid
Iota.                                                                     l~~~~~~~~~~~~imieed  -ange of sedital   _ttnire    Poe  _etlsit i 1p-rpect   scu  bepS-
PfPlLhtIAl aoll VITAL  ~~~~~~                                              tat, i-tls.f  1yOn pri-ypol gete.o. I   a entlo hee   ion -ta, end es-e
POPUATIO  AN  VITLnSATISTICSa                                                                  hnto lt.nrslhnPitnnooeentootnnnent                                     entrs
Total Ptulatin, Ill-lar (elitons)      hef Jsle I; l9bO, 1970, and 1971            _Ahds-lcunnyIlyr.ettl  e  - nTo] Itao.n   at adeo-eon-  noo  di-tharg-
late,                                                                   trot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ntsp:tal  dtnladc  bo the  -btt of bete.
dftfscen.t defr-ott.-  of7 seba  areac say atnndponip   f ta                               9IthISt
an 0   Iliatees   1960, 1910, and 191dt.Ieaale   tooeoiOenn   e   oetl)-tel   ro,tdoel
Pop. aio       I-ot Iio...                                                                        A houehl  n  ole  o    grIn7t of  ind -nias   who cha.. TII g   -oeet-
Pepaatto   Snyear200   ... Caren  pnpslatloo  prjoin   eehnd              1980           adterelnec.                A hoarder ne lge  so  o y      no  h   ieolIded  ie
toal poalannenby ageao  s In and ehel  ourtoly an  fern1iltr  ranr-                    the houshold fno nenet        -a up--es
P"jeIl    peaeee  foeg'.  ltattoliey cote  oaptie of sheet 1et-san I-                      Aorjg  oee    Ifpen prro  ~-ett_Irbat,. ede-ars1  - A-u.n  nn
lo   lre    iaenan  et '    . bit   u oigt it a .... ut0  I per  -ita intone        bet of pe--n  perrotl       i~   arhanbA, ond  -srn  -noupiedoI.....tif.cnl
leve, seafemle  If eut!tano   e'tohOlng t- 0.  nor.The p.e-d..ing.   reptetli,  . owellf,,gee-tlslen -n-perenec                                                      sts  osed
naee  top geretinty rat  als hban  three  Ie-1.    -i,snO     declIne in                     nnopt_  apate
fertelity  oo-oding tn innec    -ne   Ilp-en  lonel  planoiut perfesonte.                  A.-ee  no tEl-rlityjrr_ en   ofdnlogl-nte1, -rha, 0,1 tri1 
tath  r-antry in th-  osig-nd one of Iheaentet-n-hi-ationsf   -d1rtolt                         on,in          ollnetn    ltent   oino    sOCla
St.,fer ilitn tel-lcr,oln-         io    P-p-en                                                 tnoltOe   gdaadellgrsptiey
Itesoe    oelnonot Atsnlo...y yopollenn oh~ eoa  n  genothcao
the bueArat  is eq-al to the deweh --n, oud also the  ag  ..r..tIIer- -                  tOEICATItO4
niosd  nna.This i-ahlend .uty afeo   tr- ie   rannrdnlse t                                d  annoy lEolfneee  R-tIos
ouleti-d o  the hasis of the peujroted  chua-teriotii-  ~f the P,opala_i_on.1 penenln- ge pouatoa ,h                                     nloioldnoidcogd
no te nar  111  andeheeut  otdenine  f Ortlttyaeo   o rplna-             er  hsn adjustd fnt dft -tern   lengthe of prtmncyeda-ttn; foe
nent lenel.                                                                          onsetTro-ac-.1i..r  pp.,Ii---   tith u-i--Io od-nanion enro1mee  otayetred lCt peccant
elie hoe  renc-thed.                                                                          tendr          crol .- ntoI sale and female - Cnnpet.d a.obe,-;eer..ndary
e  o . A. -Mftd-yea  popleti-n fee, a;aar  klcl-noe  (iVy heotco) of                          .redsg  er,oondo . styuo..nratingtep scten    to  py
PopuIlaionAeScnue   rrei.    ChiLldre  (0-14 y-aos, uoog-an   Ily-                                   lollen        -la.  nsetn,.r.he.roos                         abrI op-cte toder-
6l yeea ,ao  retired  (65 neoc  and  0cr)  at Pere-eag-sn,  mid-near. p.p-                         de_elY' te- depor_eron   or e-ro-d uninstlnoIons.
lotIon; 19h0, 1970, and 1978 data.                                                              P---etoreoroor.adoeodr-otle,fnt   cntd in
cotalatto Icownhlane (ocoese) -  utul - Ausel Icont renneof e-n1 std-              rmr   e   eod             -lenl  divnidd by  -unher  of reaoheeelI  the
year pealc-i.nt fee i950-60, 1960-70. and 191078P.noesndolel.
P2eulotnOoehOt  (ecno     eu  - A-noa  groethI1 taco   ntnbut pOpo-                                Adul  lteao  anIrern)      teateae   lhetore   ndwie
lotions for 1950-60, 1960-7l, aol 1970-It.                                                         esaprn   oa  ftntidl Loilaltto   agdI th,(l rat.  al..  odven.
eupi`lonion; 1960, 1970, .ca 19 70  aLt.                                                   otnft
Ctade Death l6o-  (tret hea..ell - Ae..aol d-ohn per thou.on.  ofl    a id-yearS   FiO                                    .
popalato.-    1960, 0970, end 1970 deta.                                                      Puegolr.e   hnodpnltit       osne   astnos                                      o
... b-l  f d-gh-.   ~~~~~ilnesbseae-sf, les  thu-eiht paron,  _10a0ae   onhobonn-e. he-ee-an
he-ool  mrdoin  refo  if so  en                  latec    prsn  an-soo... f.t-      tdi-  neeanopj             ,,nh asod   Ioslat-ne- AIO types orII      eoc   lu rdt
nu,t ten   ans    _anlly tine-n at-onroge  esdleg,in 1:961, 170), -nd 1977.                  -lrdtcsegnrapoItertaalofoaano;ucdsul-
Pamilo  louotntteecs  lerceet  f nortld eunee-Pet -bnu r of s-pon-dt- i-    IInatirseaadniteh-d linefwing.
aomno    ihld-heacieg ag(15-4l yI.cel who as   fthie---Ie  d-..ta  ta                    TO----tme   pee Ithoood   poli-         o)     V'tcine.frheaoaet
allmoelegsomn f  sae ee goup                                             one-r-l pht   eeion                                         IInnle;  rise     anlieesdIT  cctto
notalo   asna d)whic   see etude  on. d cnoeocee             .g.dote I Ona             t in-eena  h-tedp,,e-ier toelt-dre,Tea   -Ie oth  II eab ir-of
teaoreeonadel .Aggregate prodnot,on  of.eat  t.....o  Ishtd  nrtiekno  cr0: dar-e  the ye-c. inoludiegadIteso deie-n cioe
n-tiuna..   eagep_ndace  petocueighte; 1961-65, 1970. 001 1970 loat.                            adcht'ie
enegy euie      Io   f -et food sPyletnialeIn  -osr  Pee capita                          'A10R  OPC
per lan.   Anlwi   uplo    oprise do-ett   pednotie,' tepoo ...                 s ..        Total LaborPte-        nonnn   -  coosnO                enir  pe.c... ~Incl,di,o
eoyei-   Iao  rh-ngee In s-o.  see ca.ppiec eaclol  -nleo  feed,  -eda.                       arrtnctn nmloo    a   nldn   osele.soee,ec
untisefi.t fod bpr-nebstegd  an pyiujses In  -ditnFhet-tlo. Fqlt-IIntiouoatotottn    or                                          -o op-rbl,  1960, 1970 and
household 1-n1; 1961-65, 1970,rd197   data.?icluI(tt-)-Lb                                                                         II-   ~alI,f-r,  It                     -
7   d                              ~ ~~~~~~~~fishiel,o    ereeg   f ntotl Iebr f-ene; 1960, 1970 .an  1976 data.
net  uppl  nffonoperday.Setaeppy o  fool to dePOne  ataton.  Re-                                        Lblt-     I
a,llowance of  10 g .an  ofi ..no p.ntei  pee by USnd p-d. len   fala   o                      9Vad17 oa
eiepr-ten, oJ   hirh I0 trans eh,nId he to,lna  petin,. h Tbnewod                          atilyan           e   ooo        sn l,sl,adfolelbrfrea
urda  oe  _n_e  thao th-n  n  7  g IeoFII_I _ponnad 23 ar_a  ulconafco  tnt1, n1Io ted tenel  poys,atnon  cf all  ga eso-rctsl,_
S                          anneal~~~~.i-   Proteton ne a Ianag  for the oor1d, p-rP-se  hy FAD no the Thied               196t, 1970, and 1975 dana.  These are ILO's part:loipoti-o t cne   -eflecnteg
Wlo1d Pool Sc-ny; 1961-65, 1970 aud 1977 data.                                                           tI-              h   ..-.,.d               I,       ..Af             .i 
ecoannope 1eec  -      tod   ocea  ad l-         - P'ooae          nOfod  o               ag -se   stccnnt  of the pouato,on-og  ie  en--                        e  e
elne   tes ainai  an  poaeein frow   pe  da-, 1961nO   0970 and 19Pdn.              tcst  ned7o   an   - tatIin  oP 0onlooo   owle                    - sd ho  Iando
Itlid  tooau 1-4) sorroofen tete Item nSualoudf  - AtnotI adtspnt,cn     0         n  the tot1elab-n  goIIe
agegroP 1-4 yees   tohildo-  in this               I, go;; , _o  t detl;tg ca--
ones.  Idata delned fron liIf  taylen; 19 60, 19070 end 1977 dat.                           INCOMI Il5TtIBtITIO
HEAI.ff                                                                                            iet-ag-lprne   IIcono (hoth On  -aeh and kind)  R- tetod hy cichec
-b- ~~f y ... a f Ilof -o..ehids
anf~ b,urth: i960, loot and 1970 deto.
Intact eornalctt Oate Irer etoutand) A--A1n dtethw  of -f--t  nod-t one y-rt  FPtthTY TAOIT IVOUPS
ofag 1er -onad line IOow                                                               f       ie   AonurPnrn  ooeInl100nccpt)-aro   n   aa
Attoweto" Vfe laeecf recre-nt--    0 osonnI-rnl,oht  n    ua                                     Ethoclt k, troto  O-ltoc   cTel  I-oto   noeitlhen    tc      nfo
-eterwpply (i-Inoden Itreated suet eOeee-  or -ntreatd 1st anr-n wonrd                           nntanu1   dVteditpo-s-t l   o-odc ornssi   o
woner such  s that feonyrnneteal hrebolel, spin, atd lue"iinryell   as             s -nand te otlne P-toen   IInIs  tel  fS   erroew      ebnod  ua
peroentagon  o ttheitrespattin   popolenione.    n On achon ac P 0  oyitIorolenlaun   ponrt,ocnelnr  I   net Ir of  ....ag   pc ta Ipita
tlintgilttlnctannooilot go- enh   of1 tha  hs.    bene    ra                             eelihdutetnchoo   oto  ling  In d_hn aref
eeasnoteocessocl   toic  hatetehuoenne O  nehP..of.SeIonIhIfo urIanePo-iattoYtloAh                           blstpnet nn,    n  tene    Ioe     hent-ur1
dot iho  t   po       inrocaowepr   fthe  a   ntnho   th                                tloro--enn o,I     I     f     hppltotlra If         aeI  woae~hsl                or
-elly' 5 toter needs.
pooa  eo   nlaetec_in.    godt onspowal,' out    tIooo 0_ -rann,toon   aPlyIcadPoenns ept
hdhcnto-totsa....toane                 Pyae-nnrtsohnedsyootnsrn                        .                                                       phi,l
rr -nod  nnsi1-o,o-tallaiono.



-22-
ANNEX1
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - LIBERIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                         AhNNAL RATE OF GROWTH (Z 1977 CONSTANT PRICES)
US$ Mln.         Z                                      1974-77       1978
GNP at Market Prices             807.8        100.0                                       2.3         6.7
Gross Domestic Investment        253.0         31.3                                      13.7         6.8
Gross National Saving            101.7         12.6                                      -3.9        -9.2
Current Account Balance        -100.1          12.4
Exports of Goods, NFS            500.1         61.9                                      -6.6         8.0
Imports of Goods, NFS            544.6         67.4                                       4.3         9.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                      Labor Force-/                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.            .                 1000      %                       us$           /t
AgricultuEe                     283.7            35.0               482.2    70.5                       588.3       49.6
Industry2~                     168.8             20.8                30.8      4.5                    5,480.5      462.8
Services                       358.5             44.2                73.8    10.8                     4,857.7      410.2
Unallocated                                                          92.2    14.2
Total/Average             810.0            100.0               68.0   100.0                     1,184.2      100.0
G=OVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                      Central Government
(      Mln.)        % of GDP                (US$ Mln.)            % Of GDP
197         197         196 -7         1979-80-4/      97O-?90/       1975-78
Current Receipts                     ..          ..           ..           197.0           22.1           21.8
Current Expenditure                                            .174.2                      196            14.1
Current Surplus                      ..          ..           ..            22.8            2.5            7.7
Capital Expenditure                  ..          ..           ..            142.5          16.0            5.6
External Assistance (net)            ..          ..           ..             52.6           5.9            2.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974           1975           1976             1977            1978
(Million USS       outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money
Bank Credit to Public Sector                        4.0             2.Z            0.9               4.7             9.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                      72.7            76.8           83.1            109,2            132.1
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as Z of GDP                     *
General Price Index (1963) = 100)-
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                                19.5             13.6            6.0              5.8             8.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                         ..            -45.0          -59.1           422.2            100.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                        ..              5.6            8.2             31.4            20.9
NOTE?  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Over 80% is accounted for by iron ore.
3/ Consumer Price Index (Sept., Nov. 1964 - 100).
4/ 1979-80 revised estimates (preliminary)
5/ GDP estimates for 1979 are preliminary and subject to change.
not available.
not applicable.



23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                               MERCH NDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-78)
1976    1977      1978                                           US$ Mln.       %
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS                467.1   458.0    500.1       Iron Ore                              292.2        62.8
Imports of Goods, NFS               -443.5  -490.1   -544.6       Rubber                                 60.5        13.0
Resource Gap (deficit = -)            31.0   -32.1    -44.5       Diamonds                               22.7         4.9
Logs or Lumber                        29.5         6.3
Interest Payments (net)               -4.7    -6.7    -10.1       Coffee                                 25.0         5.3
Workers' Remittances                 -25.0   -27.5    -30.3       Palm Products                           3.7         0.8
Other Factor Payments (net)          -80.3   -68.0    -48.0       Cocoa                                   8.2         1.8
Net Transfers                         32.9    30.8       32.8     All Other Comodities                   13.1         2.8
Balance on Current Account           -45.7  -104.5   -100.1             T otal                          464.9       100.0
Direct Foreign Investment              57.3     8.1    -10.5      EXTERIIAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
Net MLT Borrowing                     19.4    38.3       58.3
Disbursements                       35.4    50.0       70.0                                                       US$ Mln.
Amortization                       -14.0   -13.7    -11.7
Sub-Total                      52.4   -19.8    -41.8       Public Debt, Incl. Guaranteed                     454.3
Capital Grants                           ..      ..        ..     Non-Guiaranteed Private Debt                       454_3
other Capital (net)                  -25.2   -35.3       33.7     Total Outstanding and Disbursed                    454.3
Other Items n.e.i.                      1.5    51.1       5.8
Increase in Reserves (+)             -28.7      4.0       2.3     DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979-/
Gross Reserves (end year)                ..      ._._
Net Reserves (end year)                  .        .        .
publi,: Debt, Incl. Guaranteed                     10.3
Fuel and Related Materials             59.5    68.8      84.6     Non-Gu^aranteed Private Debt
Imports                                                         Total Outstanding and Disbursed                     10.3
of which: Petroleum
Exports                                                         IBRD/IDA LENDING, (DECEMBER 31, 1979) (MILLION US$):
of which:  Petroleum
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding andd Disbursed -53,,6                 18.0
Through - 1971                             Since                Undis')ursed                           66.3        25.9
US$1.00 = 1.00                             US$1.00 = 1.00       0utstanding Incl. Undisbursed         119.9        43.9
1.00   US$                                 1.00 = US$
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
September 1980



- 24 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7 Pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of June 30, 1980)
Loan or                                                               Amount (US$ Million)
Credit                                                                 less cancellation
Number  Year  Borrower                  Purpose                 Bank      IDA/a    Undisbursed
Eight loans and three credits fully disbursed                   26.67    10.96
1055    1974  Liberian Bank  for        Second Development
Dev. and Investment    Finance                   4.0                    0.24
577    1975  Rep. of Liberia          Agriculture                          6.0         2.38
700    1977  Rep. of Liberia          Agriculture                          7.0         4.61
786    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Rubber Development                   6.0         5.42
839    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Forestry                             6.0         5.20
Development
859    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Monrovia Water                       8.0         6.03
Supply
1150    1975  Liberia Electric         Third Power               1.8                    0.41
Corporation
].156    1975  Rep. of Liberia         Third Road               27.5                    6.60
1266T   1976  Rep. of Liberia           Second Education         4.0                    1.16
1323    1976  Liberian Bank for
Dev. and Investment   Third Development          7.0                    4.47
Finance
1417    1977  Rep. of Liberia          Education                 6.3                    4.68
1544    1978  Rep. of Liberia           Rubber Development        7.0                   7.00
1573    1978  Rep. of Liberia           Fourth Highway          13.8                    9.26
1600    1978  Liberian Electric        Fourth Power             10.0                    1.46
Corporation
1644    1979  Rep. of Liberia          Feeder Roads             10.7                   10.16
1765/b  1979  Rep. of Liberia          Decoris Oil Palm         12.0                   12.00
Total                                          130.77       43.96       81.08
of which has been repaid                      12.30         -
Total now outstanding                          118.47       43.96
Amounts sold                          0.41
of which repaid                     0.41       0.0
Total held by Bank and IDA                     118.47       43.96
Total undisbursed                               57.44       23.64       81.08
/at Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b   Not effective.



Annex II
- 25 -                       rage 2 uf 7 Va6es
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of June 30, 1980)
Fiscal
Year      Obligor                 Type of Business       Loan      Equity     Total
1966       Liberian Bank for       Development
Development and        Finance
Investment             Company                           0.250      0.250
1977       Liberian Bank for       Development
Development and        Finance
Investment             Company                           0.306      0.306
0.556      0.556
Less Sold                                                0.001       0.001
Now Held                                                 0.555       0.555



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 7 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1266T-LBR   Second Education Project:  US$4.0 Million Third Window
Loan of June 7, 1976; Effective Date: July 8, 1976;
Closing Date: October 31, 1980
Recent political events have had no adverse impact on project
implementation. Most project elements have been completed after initial
delays in civil works due primarily to shortages of construction materials
and unusually long rainy seasons. The extension of the Zorzor Rural Teacher
Training Institute has been completed on schedule and within appraisal cost
estimates. Eighty-five of the 100 planned community school units have also
been completed; the remaining fifteen units may not be constructed due to
costs which are higher than anticipated. The technical assistance program
has been completed and most of the fellowships have been awarded.   The
overall project is expected to be completed about two years behind the
original completion date but within appraisal cost estimates.
Loan No. 1417-LBR    Third Education Project:  US$6.3 Million Loan of
May 26, 1977; Effective Date: July 13, 1977:
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Recent political events have had no adverse impact on project
implementation. Overall implementation continues to improve but is about
one year behind schedule due to,the failure of one civil works contractor to
perform satisfactorily and delays in placing fellows. The Vocational
Training Center/Agricultural and Industrial Training Board, the Forestry
Training Institute and 3 of the 4 Science and Technology Centers will begin
operation at the start of the next school year in March 1981. The construc-
tion of the fourth Science and Tchnology Center will begin soon after one
year delay due to site problems. The technical assistance program is being
implemented as planned. The fellowship program for the Vocational Training
Center is being implemented satisfactorily but the remainder of the fellow-
ship program is about two years behind schedule. The project is expected to
be completed about one year behind the original completion date but within
appraisal cost estimates.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 7 pages
Credit No. 577-LBR    Agricultural Development (Lofa) Project:  US$6 Million
Credit of August 1, 1975; Effective Date: May 26, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project is being managed satisfactcorily by Liberian managers.
In 1979 the Project surpassed its swamp rice target (150%) attained 88% of
its upland rice target, while cocoa and coffee plantings were well below
appraised estimates, (42% and 34% respectively) because of serious shortage
of seedlings. The 1980 targets for cocoa and coifee have been reduced
because of a likely recurrence of poor seedlings supplies, but targets for
swamp and upland rice are likely to be reached. Substantial progress has
been achieved by Voinjama cooperative, while the remaining three coopera-
tives are in need of improvement. The Project has surpassed its well
construction target by more than 60%. Feeder roads construction is however
behind schedule.
Credit No. 700-LBR    Agricultural Development (3ong) Project:  US$7 Million
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: March 15,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation under the new Project Manager has improved.
The construction of the training center and workshop has been completed.
The Schistosomiasis laboratory has been completed and is now in use.
Construction of the office building is behind schedule mainly because of
shortage of building materials. Three agricultural service centers has been
constructed in the project area. Feeder road upland rice and coffee targets,
85% of the cocoa and some 33% upland rice targets. Supply of rice seeds and
cocoa and coffee seedlings is still a constraint. The project is now
establishing its own nurseries for cocoa and coffee seedlings. Equipment
for farm access tracks has already arrived and york on these tracks has
started. The village wells-program is underway and 30 wells are projected
to be constructed this fiscal year. A total of 85 Cooperative Service Units
have been established. Project operations were severely hampered by the
recent political upheaval, which was accompaniec. by industrial unrest. The
situation is gradually returning to normal.
Loan No. 1544-LBR      Rubber Development Project:  US$7 Million Loan and
US$6 Million Credit, both of April 21, 1978; Effective
Date: October 3, 1978; CLosing Date: June 30, 1984
Project performance continues to be poor. By end July 1980 only
2,240 acres of rubber would have been rehabilitated compared to appraisal
targets of 8,500 acres; about 800 acres of moribund rubber would have been
replanted compared to targets of 6,000 acres. construction of headquarters
buildings, staff housing, the training center, ;arages and warehouses is one
year behind schedule. Only 80 people have been trained compared to appraisal
targets of over 2,000. Reasons for the project's poor performance include:
low quality senior expatriate management, failure on the part of the project
to recruit participants, failure to organize an effective training program,
difficulties on the part of farmers in attracting and keeping tapping labor,
problems in smallholder marketing and processing of rubber and increases in



- 28 -
Annex II
Page 5 of 7 pages
labor and equipment costs which combine to reduce the returns to farmers
below a profitable level, inadequate processing capacity in the project
area, unattractive factory-gate prices offered by the processors, inadequate
farm access roads for evacuation of project output. The last review mission
(June 1980) has resulted in a revision of the Project including rehabilita-
tion of 40,240 acres mature rubber (an upward revision) and replanting or
new planting of 25,800 acres (downward revision), reorganization and expan-
sion of LRDU, organization of a project-run collection service, construction
of a rubber processing plant with an initial capacity of 5,000 mt per
annum, incorporation of a Land Survey and Roads Unit into LRDU, provision of
funds for consultant services for redesigning the training program, for
assistance to ACDB, and for a follow-up project.
Credit No. 839-LBR    Forestry Project:  US$6 Million Credit of July 28, 1978;
Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project includes strengthening the Forestry Development
Authority, establishing a 1,600 ha industrial plantation and technical
assistance, studies and training. Following the April change of government,
the Liberian Project Manager was removed and has not yet been replaced. In
the meantime, the project-financed FAO advisory team is managing the project
and plantation development is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1765-LBR
Special Action Credit No. 35-LBR
Decoris Oil Palm Project: US$12.0 Million Loan and
US$2.0 Million EEC Credit, both of December 21. 1979;
Effective Date:          ; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
Progress in meeting conditions of effectiveness has been delayed
due to change in government. The acquisition and leasing of the initial
8,350 ha from Government to Decoris Oil Palm Co. (DOPC) has been signed by
all parties involved and is now awaiting approval by the President. A DOPC
account has been opened with the Agricultural and Cooperative Development
Bank and the amount of $900,000 deposited in this account by Government.
The subsidiary financing agreement between Government and DOPC is expected
to be concluded soon. A management firm has been selected and the Agreement
is nearly complete.
Loan No. 1156-LBR      Third Highway Project:  US$27.5 Million Loan of
August 28, 1975; Effective Date:  October 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The construction of a major bridge and an urban main road (5.4 mi)
in Monrovia was completed in 1979, and the completion of a main trunk road
(83 mi) is now expected in early 1981 after delays due to bad weather,
difficulties in the supply of materials and disturbances associated with the
recent change in government (the Bank funded portion totalling 42 miles has
been completed). The feasibility studies of about 98 miles of main roads



- 29 -                     Annex II
Page 6 of 7 pages
and an urban transport study in Monrovia have been completed. The Lofa
County Feeder Road Unit, which became operatonal in January 1977, has
been transferred to the Feeder Road Project, (1664-LBR) after completion of
the three-year construction program. Technical assistance in building up
the Planning and Programming Division of the Ministry of Public Works is
proving fairly effective.
Loan 1573-LBR          Fourth Highway Project:  US$13.8 Million Loan of
June 2, 1978; Effective Date: September 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project includes reconstruction and improvement of the Paynes-
ville-Totota and Paynesville-Robertsfield road, technical assistance of road
maintenance and preinvestment studies. Reconstruction of the Paynesville-
Robertsfield road financed by the Kuwait fund is expected to be substan-
tially completed by October 1980. Rehabilitaticn of the Paynesville-Totoa
road started in October 1979, but was disrupted by the departure of consul-
tants following the change of Government. Detailed engineering of the
Ganta-Sanniquellie and Ganta-Tapeta roads was also delayed temporarily but
is now expected to be completed by December 198(1. The full personnel
complement of the road maintenance advisory services is in the field.
Technical assistance positions have been filled. A project cost overrun of
about US$4.0 million is now expected due to implementation delays and higher
than expected construction costs. Consequently,, the Government may propose
reducing the size of the project.
Loan No. 1664-LBR      Feeder Roads Project:  US,;10.7 Million Loan of
April 4, 1979; Effective Date:  April 30, 1979;
Closing Date: December 3., 1984
The project provides for the construction or improvement and main-
tenance of about 700 miles of feeder roads and 1or the maintenance of a
further 200 miles of feeder roads. The work will be undertaken by three bri-
gades operated by the Ministry of Public Works assisted by local contractors.
All contracts for procurement of equipment have been signed. Part of first
equipment tranche has been delivered and mobilized on site, the remaining
equipment delivery to be completed by October 1980. Design of roads to be
constructed by local contractors is in progress. A technical assistance team
for planning and execution of works and a technical expert to provide assist-
ance to the domestic contractors have been recruited.
Loan No. 1055-LBR      Second Development Finance Company (LBDI) Project:
US$4 Million Loan of December 3, 1974; Effective
Date: January 3, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,1980;
and
Loan No. 1323-LBR      Third Development Finance Company (LBDI) Project:
US$7 Million Loan of October 7, 1976; Effective Date:
December 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982;
Loan 1055-LBR is 98 percent committed and should be completed
shortly. Commitment of Loan 1323-LBR has been slower than anticipated



Annex II
-30-                       Page 7 of 7 pages
(by February 1980, 49 percent of the loan had been committed) owing to
slackening economic activity in Liberia and a downturn in business invest-
ment. Following the recent political changes, LBDI remains financially and
structurally sound and is concentrating its efforts on project follow-up and
loan recovery.
Loan No. 1150-LBR      Third Power Project:  US$1.8 Million Loan of
August 1, 1975; Effective Date: October 20, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project finances technical assistance for establishing a
long-range development plan and detailed investment program as well as for
strengthening the management of the Liberia Electricity Corporation (LEC)
and training of its staff. LEC's management continues to need external
support and the training program needs to be expanded to include practical
training for middle-level staff, all of which is being addressed under the
Fourth Power Project's Management Improvement Program. The LEC consultants,
Chas. T. Main (USA), have completed the pre-feasibility study of the hydro-
electric development of St. Paul River.
Loan No. 1600-LBR      Fourth Power Project:  US$10.0 Million Loan of
July 7, 1978; Effective Date: December 11, 1978;
Closing Date; June 30, 1982
The project consists of expansion of thermal generating facilities
by 26 MW to meet demand up to 1985, power distribution to urban poor, rural
transmission studies and technical assistance for management and training.
Construction of the power plant is complete, the two diesel units are in
operation. LEC's financial performance has been severely affected by low
operating efficiency. A five-man managment support team started work at LEC
in July 1978 as a part of the Management Improvement Program instituted under
this Loan. Progress of this team is satisfactory.
Credit No. 859-LBR    Water Supply Project:  US$8 Million Credit of
January 8, 1979; Effective Date: April 2, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is designed to assist the Liberia Water and Sewer
Corporation in expanding Monrovia's water supply and distribution capacity,
increasing access to service for the urban poor, and improving LWSC's man-
agerial efficiency, planning capacity and financial viability. The project
provides for a sector study as a basis for a sector development plan and
strategy, and provides training opportunities and facilities for LWSC's
Liberian staff. Except for the technical trainer, the other management
training personnel are on post, and Liberian counterparts have been assigned
to understudy them. A draft report on the management improvement programme
has been completed and reviewed and the finalized version is expected soon.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTI]ON PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I:
Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:       18 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:       Ministry of Lands and Mines,
Bureau of Hydrocarbons, with
assistance of consultants
(c)  Date of first Bank mission to        February 1979
consider the project:
(d)  Appraisal:                           January 1980
(e)  Negotiations completed:              March 24, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:       December 31, 1980
Section II:
Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:
Special Conditions
1.   Due consideration to be given to the needs of the Bureau of Hydrocarbons
and oil exploration in allocating the proceeds from the sale of reports
(para. 53).
2.   The award of at least one exploration perinit to an oil company would
be a condition of disbursement for the assistance in monitoring explo-
ration activities (para. 45(d)(i)).






IBRD 14877
*00  /  /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          9~~~~~~OO ~~~~~FEBRUARY1980
~~~~' ~~~~~~LIBERIA
LIBERIA                                                           *:
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION
PROJECT
S I E~~~~ ~~~~~~ G~eo,o                                                                  10           Boer-En
 Well L-tolun, Dr,y We Is
Water Deptn Contour
L E 0 N E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANt4E                                                                    oed~sd
Cu,ru ~~~~~  ~             Lose S~,rl- Roots
ROOd, -nd.r C-nroco
rr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~AreoooArtp
C-atr Cop us
C-unt B-udor-e
UNEV                                                                                l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iorn-t o-1o Boi-dorre



