Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19579
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FIFTH POWER PROJECT
(Cr. 2053-HA)
July 29, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1998)
Currency Unit = Gourdes (G$)
G$16.00 = US$1.00
G$ I million =US$62,500
FISCAL YEAR
October I - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD            Agence Francaise de Developpement (French Development Agency)
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CMEP           Council of Modermization of Public Enterprises
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
EdH            Electricite d 'Haiti (Electricity of Haiti)
GOH            Government of Haiti
GWh            Gigawatt-hours ( 1 million kilowatt-hours)
IDA            International Development Association
IDB            Interamerican Development Bank
KfW            Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
(Germnan Development Financing Agency)
MAP            Management Assistance Program
MEF            Ministry of Economy and Finance
MTPTC          Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PMU            Project Management Unit
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
TAP            Technical Assistance Program
Vice President:                      David de Ferranti
Country Management Unit Director:   Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Management Unit Director:     Danny Leipziger
Task Manager:                        Philippe Durand



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
POWER V PROJECT (Cr. 2053-HA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................................................                                                 i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ........................................................                                    ii
PART  I. IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ............................................... 1
A.  Background .1
B.             Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives.                                            2
C.             Achievement of Project Objectives.                                                     3
D.             Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project.                         5
E.    Project Sustainability.                                                                         7
F.  IDA Performance.                                                                                  7
G.   Borrower Performance.                                                                             8
H.   Assessment of Outcome.                                                                            9
1.  Future Operation.                                                                                 9
J.   Key Lessons Learned .10
PART  II, STATISTICAL  ANNEXES ........................................................   12
TABLE  1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ............................................................... 12
TABLE 2: RELATED IDA CREDITS ................................................................                     13
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ................................................................                       13
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS ................................................................   14
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................ 15
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .......................................... 15
TABLE 7: STUDIES ................................................................                                16
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ................................................................                         16
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ................................................................                      16
TABLE 9:  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ................................................................ 17
TABLE  10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ......................................................... 18
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ................... 20
TABLE  12: IDA  RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS ....................................................... 20
TABLE 13: IDA  RESOURCES - MISSIONS ............................................................. 21
APPENDIX  1 - LAST MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE .................................................... 22
APPENDIX  2 - BORROWER CONTRIBUTION  TO THE ICR ......................................... 27
MAP IBRD 30127
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FIFTH POWER PROJECT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fifth Power Project in Haiti,
for which Credit 2053-HA in the amount of SDR 18.6 million (US$24.0 million equivalent) was
approved on June 27, 1989, and made effective on January 16, 1990.  The Project was
restructured in 1996. The credit was closed on January 31, 1999, compared with the original
closing date of December 31, 1995. Final disbursement took place on May 5, 1999 for the
amount of SDR 111,509.53 equivalent. A balance of SDR 532,942.43 will be canceled from the
Credit, assuming full recovery from the Special Account (US$73,542.04 were pending as of
7/31/99). Cofinancing for the project was provided by CIDA.
The ICR was prepared by Philippe Durand, Task Manager (LCSFP) with support from
Marcelo Osorio (Consultant) and reviewed by Mrs. Marfa Victoria Lister, Quality Assurance
Officer (LCSFP), Mr. Max Pulgar-Vidal, Sector Leader (LCC3C) and Mrs. Orsalia
Kalantzopoulos, Country Director (LCC2C).
Preparation of this ICR began during IDA's final supervision/completion mission in
November 1998. The ICR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, Credit and Project
Agreements, supervision reports, field visits, discussions with the project staff, materials in the
implementing agency files, and the project file. The Borrower and Electricite d'Haiti (EDH)
contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing their own report, information for the statistical
tables and comments on the draft ICR which have been taken into account. The Borrower's
contribution is shown in Appendix 2.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FIFTH POWER PROJECT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
}.    The Fifth Power Project was part of the Government's sector strategy aimed at bringing
about improvements in the efficiency, reliability and quality of energy services.  Project
objectives were in line with IDA's objectives of reducing long-run cost of electricity, and
improving EdH's institutional and financial performance. This was IDA's fifth operation in the
power sector. The first, second and fourth previous operations in 1976, 1980 and 1985,
respectively were satisfactorily implemented. The third previous operation in 1982 was rated
unsatisfactory.
Project Objectives
2.    The main objective of the project was to support Haiti's economic development strategy
by providing the reliable supply of power necessary for economic growth and, in particular, for
industrial and commercial activities. More specifically, the project aimed at: (a) expanding the
generating facilities in the city of Port-au-Prince in accordance with a least-cost expansion
program; (b) supplying electricity to the cities of Hinche and Thomonde; and (c) improving
EdH's efficiency through the execution of (i) a program to reduce non-technical losses; (ii)
institutional improvements; and (iii) training programs to strengthen EdH's managerial and
technical capacity.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project was approved in June 1989 and became effective in January 1990. It was
restructured in July 1996 after the credit disbursements suspension, imposed following the
embargo on Haiti by the international community from 1991 to 1994, was lifted. The project was
restructured taking into account the conditions of the country after the embargo and the assistance
offered to the country by other donors. During the embargo, the electricity system deteriorated
dramatically and EdH was in precarious financial condition. Consultants appointed to study a
strategy to develop the power sector concluded recommending full privatization of EdH.
Following this recommendation, AFD/CIDA from France/Canada funded a Technical Assistance
Program to Electricite d' Haiti (EdH) to improve its operations, IDB approved a grant to finance
consultant services to assist the Government in analyzing options for privatizing EdH, and IDA
restructured the project to focus on expanding badly needed generation capacity in Port au Prince
and improving EdH's efficiency prior to its privatization.
4.    The project partially achieved its objectives. The power generating facilities were
expanded by 31 MW and availability of electricity service at Port-au-Prince increased from four
hours in 1995 to eighteen hours in 1998, a pilot loss reduction program was successfully
implemented and a pre-feasibility study for the installation of a new 60 MW diesel plant was



iii
completed. However, EdH's overall efficiency was not improved. Electricity losses increased
and EdH's financial conditions very greatly deteriorated. Electricity losses increased from 40% in
1989 to 55% in 1997. Rates of return have been negative: -6.2% in FY 96 and -9.66% in FY 97
and total accounts receivable at end of FY 98 were equivalent to 8.2 months of consumption.
5.     The Government of Haiti (GOH) progressed slowly towards the concession of the
electric utility (EdH) to a private operator. In 1996, the GOH implemented two substantive
actions, the enactment of the Law of Modernization of Public Enterprises and the establishment
of the Council for the Modernization of the Public Enterprises (CMEP). The Law permits the
transfer of public enterprise operations to private companies under the modalities of concession,
capitalization or management contracts. Following the enactment of the Law, the CMEP,
assisted by consultants financed by IDB, conducted studies to assess options for private
participation. However, the progress has been very slow, due to lack of high level decisions. It
was not until January 1999, that the GOH decided to select the concession option. At present,
IDB is preparing a project that would include consultant services to assist the GOH in the
implementation of this option.
6.     The major factors that affected project implementation were: (i) the three year economic
embargo imposed upon the country; (ii) EdH's critical financial situation following the embargo;
(iii) the critical economic situation of most of the country's population which aggravated the
problem of payment arrears and electricity theft and was an obstacle to tariff increases that were
necessary to allow EdH's financial viability; (iv) the country's political instability: there were
seven governments during the project implementation period ; (v) government's intervention in
EdH's technical operations, which mainly affected the decision on the type of generating units
and their procurement process, and the contract for the technical assistance to EdH; and (vi) weak
EdH's institutional capability due to lost of qualified staff.
7.     Several covenants were not met, primarily those with regards to the financial position of
EdH. These shortfalls were as follows: EdH's rates of return have been negative as compared to
4.0% covenant, level of electricity losses is 55% as compared to 35% covenant, and the
customers per employee ratio was 78 in FY 1998 as compared to 80 covenant.
Summary of findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
8.    The project outcome is unsatisfactory.  Although the main project objective, the
expansion and improvement of EdH's electricity-generating facilities in the city of Port-au-Prince
was achieved, the deterioration of EdH's efficiency and the uncertain project sustainability makes
the overall outcome unsatisfactory. EdH's electricity facilities in Port-au-Prince were expanded
within the project cost estimates and availability of the other EdH's generating facilities
improved. As a result of both the expansion of EdH's generating facilities and improved
maintenance of the existing ones, generation increased from 466.5 GWh in 1995 to 663.0 GWh
in 1998 and availability of electricity service in Port-au-Prince increased from four hours in 1995
to eighteen hours a day in 1998. However, given EdH's critical financial condition and
inefficiencies, the maintenance of both the new and existing generating units is likely to decline
unless the Government accelerates the actions required to transfer EdH's operations to a private
investor.
9.     Overall IDA performance was moderately satisfactory: IDA properly identified and
prepared the project but failed to adequately assess the status of project readiness for



iv
implementation at the time of appraisal; during supervision IDA's performance was satisfactory
but failed to achieve an improvement in EDH operational efficiency and financial situation. The
Borrower's performance was unsatisfactory: it did not support EdH's actions to improve its
commercial performance and it did not take timely decisions for the restructuring and
privatization of EDH. The performance of the implementing agency was less than satisfactory:
EDH efficiently contributed to project preparation but during project implementation, EDH was
not sufficiently committed to reducing non technical losses of electricity and did not take timely
measures to improve its financial management procedures or to balance its financial situation.
10.    The discussions held under the project and the lessons learned from its implementation
contributed to important Government actions that could permit the participation of a private
investor in EdH's operations.  Options for private participation in the power sector were
discussed with CMEP in several opportunities in 1998, in coordination with IDB. A project to
assist the Government with the concession of EdH to a private company is being considered by
IDB. This project would also include a component to finance the purchase of the goods and
spare parts required for the maintenance of EdH's facilities during a period of two years.
Successful implementation of this project and the achievement of its objective are fundamental to
the sustainability of the project and the development of electricity service. Finalization of the
concession arrangements with a private investor is expected in 2000.
1I.   EdH has prepared a scheduled maintenance program for all its facilities and quantified
the costs to perform  it until IDB's proposed operation is effective.  The Council for the
Modernization of Public Enterprises has prepared a schedule for the appointment of an
investment bank, the preparation of documents to invite private companies to bid for the
concession of EdH, and the finalization of the concession arrangements with the awarded
company.
12.   The key lessons learned from the implementation of the project are:
(a)    EdH is not financially viable under the present institutional arrangements that do
not entail sufficient incentives, autonomy or private involvement. Its income is
insufficient to meet its costs of operation and maintenance;
(b)   the main cause for EdH's low income is the high level of electricity losses which
have not decreased but constantly grown since the First Power Project financed
by IDA, despite the fact that four of the five power projects included the
reduction of losses as one of their objectives; the magnitude of these losses is
such that their reduction will require substantial investment and very different
institutional arrangements, with a motivated management;
(c)    the lack of adequate maintenance to the power facilities is another crucial issue.
EdH is neglecting the maintenance of its facilities due to both lack of financial
resources to acquire spare parts and insufficient power capacity reserve to allow
stopping operation of its facilities for their maintenance;
(d)   the Government has initiated actions to concession EdH to a private company.
The private company should bring into EdH new capital which is indispensable
for expanding the power facilities and drastically reducing electricity losses;



v
(e)   the failure in achieving the loss-reduction objective in this project and in the
previous ones, has been due in part to lack of an adequate preparation of a
comprehensive program which include detailed design of its components, list of
equipment, implementation schedule and complete cost estimates of the
implementation and follow-up actions. The preparation of these elements should
have been completed under project preparation, not during its implementation as
was done in the project;
(f)   the SAR for the project did not include a political risk analysis. The analysis of
this kind of risks should be made whenever the political environment is unstable.
In the case of the project, the political environment was very unstable at the time
of the SAR;
(g)   the risk analysis in SARs/PADs should include the preparation of the utility's
financial projection based on historical levels of efficiency, not on expected and
uncertain improved levels. In the case of the project, EdH's financial projections
assumed substantial efficiency improvements, in particular an unrealistic drastic
reduction of electricity losses;
(h)   the support from government, including use of public force, is essential to
successful implementation of a loss-reduction program.  The project pilot
program for loss reduction showed that EdH's employees did not have safe
access to many neighborhoods and that the resale of electricity by customers not
paying EdH was a problem;
(i)    Technical  Assistance  Programs  (TAP),  and  even  performance-based
management contracts, proved once more that they are ineffective and should be
avoided.   These arrangements lack accountability, incentives, power to
implement measures and financial resources to implement such measures;



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FIFTH POWER PROJECT
PART I - IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    From 1986 to 1999 Haiti has passed through one of its worst political and economic
crises. After a civil rebellion obliged President Duvalier to resign power in 1986, there were
several military governments until February 1991 when a democratic government was elected.
This government did not last long; in September 1991, following a coup d'etat, a period of
dictatorship came with a military government. The international community did not recognize
this military government and applied an economic embargo to the country. The embargo was
lifted in December 1994, when the democratic Government of President Aristide was
reestablished. Following the embargo decision, IDA suspended credit disbursements to Haiti. At
the time when credit disbursements were suspended, only a few preliminary activities had been
started and only about US$0.1 million of the credit had been disbursed. During the project
implementation period (1989-1999), the country has had seven different governments.
2.    The breakdown of civil discipline subsequent to the several changes of government and
the political situation began to seriously undermine EdH's performance. Frequent changes in
management, due to political considerations, shortage of qualified staff and inadequate
coordination among the various departments, aggravated EdH's condition. Skilled professionals,
attracted by higher salaries and more stability in developed countries, started to leave the country.
The main problems confronting the sector were extremely high energy losses and poor conditions
of the power thermal plants. Energy losses escalated rapidly, reaching an average of 35% of total
production in 1987 compared to 30% in 1986. Electricity service was very unreliable, with
frequent outages and breakdowns. The four thermal plants that served the Port-au-Prince area
(Janvier, Delmas, Varreux and Carrefour, totaling 101.3 MW) were old and unreliable or poorly
maintained. Extensive work was carried out under the Fourth Power Project, including complete
overhauling of the Delmas' four units as well as maintenance and improvements of the Varreux
and Carrefour plants. As a consequence of high electricity losses and the shortage of qualified
staff, EdH's financial performance deteriorated dramatically. Rate of return on revalued fixed
assets decreased from 5% in 1986 to 1.5% in 1987, and accounts receivable from private
customers increased from an equivalent average of 60 days in 1986 to 75 days in 1987.
3.    At the end of the embargo, the political, economic and social conditions of the country
were critical. Politically, the government faced the need to restore political stability as its first
priority. Economically, after more than three years of embargo, the country was devastated. The
power sector was not the exception: the conditions of the power facilities, specifically the thermal
plants, were catastrophic due to the extended period without spare parts required for their proper
maintenance. Socially, the situation was calamitous. Poverty had dramatically increased and
consequently, people's capacity to pay for basic services, including electricity, decreased. Four
years after the embargo was lifted, the country has not been able to recover political stability.



2
Government has lacked a Prime Minister for almost two years and no Prime Minister has
remained in power for more than one year
4.     The project was appraised in June 1987 and negotiated in November 1987. After the
change in government in 1988, it was updated in March 1989 and renegotiated in April 1989.
The project was restructured in July 1996 following the lift of the international embargo.
B. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Project Objectives
5.    The main objective of the project was to support Haiti's economic development strategy
by providing the reliable supply of power necessary for economic growth and, in particular, for
industrial and commercial activities. More specifically, the project aimed to: (a) expand the
generating facilities in the city of Port-au-Prince, in accordance with a least-cost expansion
program, (b) supply electricity to the cities of Hinche and Thomonde; (c) improve EdH's
efficiency through the execution of (i) a program to reduce non-technical losses; (ii) institutional
improvements; and (iii) training programs to strengthen EdH's managerial and technical capacity.
6.     The project was initially comprised of seven components: (i) installation of two 20-MW
gas turbine generating units in Port-au-Prince; (ii) construction of a single-circuit, 42 km-long
sub-transmission line of 23 kV from the Peligre hydropower plant to Hinche; (iii) procurement of
equipment and tools for maintenance of distribution systems and a loss-reduction program; (iv)
preparation of feasibility studies for future medium-speed diesel units; (v) a pre-investment study
to assess the economic merits of serving the Ciment d'Haiti plant from EdH's main grid; (vi)
preparation and implementation of a program to reduce non-technical losses; and (vii) a program
to carry-out EdH's institutional development, including the implementation of a training
program.
7.    In 1995, after the lift of the embargo, IDA and the Borrower agreed to restructure the
project taking into account the country needs for urgent addition of power capacity and to extend
the closing date from December 31, 1995 to December 31, 1998. During the embargo, the
electricity system deteriorated dramatically. Electricity service was only available four hours a
day and EdH was in precarious financial condition. Consultants were appointed to study a
strategy to develop the power sector; their recommendation was full privatization of EdH.
Following this recommendation, several donors were willing to assist the Government in
improving EdH's performance and its further privatization. In 1995, the French Agency for
Development (Agence Francaise de Developpement, AFD) and the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) funded a Technical Assistance Program to enable EdH to improve
its operations. In 1996, IDB approved a grant to finance consultant services to assist the
Government in analyzing options to transfer EdH's operations to a private company through
concession, capitalization or management contract.  Considering that EdH's institutional
development would be widely covered by the support to be provided by other donors, IDA
accepted Government's request to reallocate most of the credit funds in support of the
institutional component to increase the category for the generating component and restructured
the project accordingly.



3
8.    The restructured project was comprised of five components; (i) installation of additional
power generation capacity for EdH in Port-au-Prince, including the acquisition and utilization of
medium-speed diesel power units at Varreux and a low-speed diesel unit at Carrefour; (ii)
preparation and implementation of a program for the reduction of EdH's energy losses; (iii) a
study on the site location and cost estimate of medium-speed generating plants to be constructed
by EdH; (iv) a study to examine the current structure of EdH's tariffs; and (v) a reduced
institutional development program limited to finance technical assistance for a loss reduction
program, improvements of EdH's information, accounting and inventory control systems, and a
training program for managers and high-level staff of EdH. The review of EdH's by-laws and the
revision of its organizational structure were eliminated since the new goal was the privatization of
EdH.
Evaluation of Objectives
9.     The project objectives were clear and similarly interpreted by the Borrower and the
implementing agency at the time of project appraisal. Given the urgent need of the country for
additional power capacity and the need for EdH to improve its efficiency, the objectives were
also appropriate at the time of project appraisal and in line with IDA's objectives. IDA's
objectives for the energy sector were to foster energy conservation, to reduce the long-run cost of
electricity, and to improve EdH's institutional and financial performance.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Overview
10.   Overall, the project partially achieved its objectives. The objectives of expanding
generating facilities at Port-au-Prince and supplying electricity to the cities of Hinche and
Thomonde were achieved, but the improvement of EdH's efficiency was not achieved.
Electricity losses have increased and EdH's financial condition has deteriorated dramatically.
Sector Policies
11.   The project did not include sector policy objectives.  However, with the extreme
deterioration of electricity service during the economic embargo, the need for substantial sector
policy reforms was evident during project implementation as recommended by consultants
appointed to study a strategy to develop the power sector. Based partly on the recommendations
of this study, the Government prepared and enacted the Law of Modernization of Public
Enterprises. This law permits the participation of private companies in the public enterprises
under the modalities of management contracts, concession or capitalization. Additionally, the
law created the Counsel of Modernization of Public Enterprises (CMEP) to promote private
participation in public enterprises and carry out the transfer of operations of public enterprises to
private companies.
Financial Objectives
12.   The financial objectives of the restructured project were not achieved and financial
covenants were not met. EdH's financial performance has been very unsatisfactory. In FY 98,
its financial losses amounted to US$ 5.0 million. Rate of return was -6.2% in FY 96 and it even



4
worsened in FY 97 to -9.66%.  Accounts receivables are equivalent to 8.2 months of
consumption. The auditor certified the project accounts and the SOEs without qualification, but
issued a disclaimer of opinion for EdH's 1996 and 1997 financial statements. Audit report for
FY 98 was not yet available at the time of the ICR preparation.
Institutional Development
13.   The institutional development objectives were partially achieved. Maintenance of the
generating facilities improved considerably and availability of electricity service increased from
four hours in 1995 to eighteen hours in 1998. However, these improvements were overshadowed
by the extremely high electricity losses that reached the level of 55% in 1998. The causes for the
increase of electricity losses are several: lack of the utility's commitment to this objective; lack of
Government's support to enforce the cut of service to illegal customers; and lack of financial
resources to implement a comprehensive loss-reduction program. The credit amount allocated to
this program was intended to finance only consultant services, and not the large amount of
equipment and goods required for this kind of program like meters, labs, vehicles and cable; thus,
only a pilot program was financed from the project. Due to the high level of losses, EdH's
operational deficits were also high, thus limiting its ability to financially afford loss control
measures and to properly maintain its facilities. As a result, if no external financial resources are
injected to EdH, it is likely that even the improvements obtained in the maintenance of generating
facilities will be lost; this injection of resources would materialize if EdH was privatized.
14.   The technical assistance provided under grants given by AFD from France and CIDA
from Canada did not contribute much either to the improvement of EdH's performance. The
program was provided during a three and a half year period, from July 1995 to December 1998
and was a positive factor in improving the operation of EdH's generating facilities. However,
deficient terms of reference, lack of incentives for consultants' performance, lack of performance
indicators and insufficient financial resources were the main constraints preventing better or
lasting results from this assistance.
15.    Some positive actions have been taken towards the concession of EdH to a private
company, which would be the most effective long term solution for the power sector. The
enactment of the Law of Modemization of Public Enterprises in 1996 was undoubtedly a
substantive action. Following the enactment of the Law, the CMEP, assisted by consultants
financed by IDB, conducted studies to assess options for private participation in the power sector
and, as a result, has selected the concession option. At present, IDB is preparing an operation
that would include consultant services to assist the GOH in the implementation of this option.
Physical Objectives
16.   The physical objectives were substantially achieved. The power generating facilities
were expanded by 31 MW at the Varreux and Carrefour power stations, electricity generation
increased from 466.5 GWh in 1995 to 663.0 GWh in 1998, the cities of Hinche and Thomonde
have electricity service, a pilot loss reduction program was implemented, a tariff study was
conducted and a pre-feasibility study for the installation of a new 60 MW diesel plant was
completed.
17.   The Varreux power station was expanded by six medium-speed diesel generating units
with a total installed capacity of 21 MW. Out of the six units, four units totaling 15 MW were



5
financed by the Credit and the other two units, totaling 6 MW, were financed by CIDA from
Canada. Installation of these units was completed by mid-1996, and the plant has been in
operation since that date, but the units still have some problems pending of fixing by the
contractor, namely defects in the speed regulation and steam generators. Final acceptance of the
units is pending the repair of the above problems and successful completion tests that are
scheduled for July 1999.
18.   The Carrefour power station was expanded with a 10 MW  low-speed diesel unit.
Consultants prepared the technical specifications for this unit which was procured under ICB
modality. This unit is under provisional operation since January 1999, but its final commission is
scheduled for June 1999 in order to correct some deficiencies found at the rotor.
19.   At the cities of Hinche and Thomonde, EdH installed small power generators financed
from their own resources. The portion of the credit allocated to finance a transmission line to
these two cities was reallocated to increase the category for power expansion capacity.
20.   The pilot loss-reduction program executed under the project comprised a zone with some
10,500 customers. The program included the installation of new meters and the monitoring of the
electricity supplied and electricity billed within the pilot zone. Electricity losses were reduced by
some 16% in the pilot zone but this achievement was not sustained because EdH lacked the
financial and human resources to continue monitoring the zone.
21.   A pre-feasibility study on a new 60 MW  diesel plant, including site selection, was
completed satisfactorily. This plant will have to be developed soon to meet the country's needs
for additional power.
22.   Actions to improve environmental conditions, especially the recovery of liquid effluents,
at the Carrefour and Varreux power plants were completed.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Record
23.   The project was originally scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1995 and close on
December 31, 1995. It was restructured after the suspension of credit disbursements was lifted in
July 1996 and the closing date was extended to December 31, 1998. A further extension to
January 31, 1999 was granted. Final project cost was US$ 26.8 million equivalent, compared to
US$27.6 million estimated at appraisal. Total IDA disbursements amounted to US$25.4 million.
24.   Implementation was not always satisfactory. Procurement of the generating units at
Varreux was particularly troublesome. Due to the emergency situation the country was facing
after the embargo, the Government requested, and IDA accepted, two modifications to the
procurement of these units so as to hasten their availability. The first change was related to the
type of generating units (small medium-speed diesel units instead of the gas turbine specified in
the project description); the second change was on the procurement modality. A shopping
modality was accepted instead of ICB. The results of these changes were negative. During
project preparation and again in the first year of project implementation, EdH, assisted by
consultants, had prepared bidding documents and technical specifications for the procurement of
gas turbines. For the procurement of diesel units, EdH did not have bidding documents ready and



6
did not have consultants to assist them. Given the urgency of the requirements for the generating
units, staff from the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications (MTPTC) and
EdH prepared simplified, broad specifications and issued bid invitations to potential bidders by
fax. Some problems developed because of this procedure. First, EdH received bids including
equipment that met the broad specifications, but with substantial differences in design, thus
making difficult the comparison of bids. Second, the award criteria was unclear for this kind of
situation and, as a result, there were disagreements on the award recommendations between the
MTPTC and the consultants appointed by EdH to assist them in the bid evaluation. Third, the
Ministry of the MTPTC decided to terminate the contract with the consultants because of the
above disagreements. Fourth, EdH's award decision made on the basis of the recommendations
of a new consultant was materially contested by one of the bidders. Finally, the equipment
supplied under this component has had technical and operational problems which have been due,
in part, to incomplete specifications.
25.   The Technical Assistance Program (TAP) financed by grants from AFD from France and
CIDA from Canada was ineffective. This program was intended to assist EdH in improving the
electricity service during the transition period after the lift of the embargo until EdH would be
privatized. At that time, privatization of EdH was expected to be completed within one year.
Since the expected duration of the TAP was short, AFD, CIDA and GOH agreed on very
simplified terms of reference and contract with the consultants; they did not include any
efficiency target nor performance indicators. However, since the process for the intended
privatization of EdH progressed much slower than expected, at Govemment's request, AFD and
CIDA extended twice the TAP from July 1996 to December 1998. Unfortunately, due to the
unrealistic expectation on the quick privatization of EdH, the extensions of the contract with the
consultants were made on the same terms as the initial contract and the consultants were unable
to program their assistance with long-term objectives. The consultants focussed their assistance
on short-term objectives only, mainly the increase of electricity service availability. The TAP
had no impact on reduction of power losses nor on improvement of EdH's financial situation.
26.   The extension of the credit closing date to December 31, 1998 followed the lift of the
disbursement suspension, and was linked to project restructuring in July 1996. It reflected a
revised project implementation schedule that had been prepared by EdH and reviewed by IDA.
The extension of the closing date to January 31, 1999 was to cover the expected period to
complete the installation of the 10 MW diesel unit at Carrefour. However, due to unforeseen
problems encountered lately at this unit, final acceptance of this unit is still pending and the credit
closed without making the expected final disbursement in the amount of US$ 0.7 million,
equivalent to 10% of the contract amount. This payment is offset, however, by a penalty in an
equivalent amount that was assessed by EdH for delay by the contractor in meeting the
contractual implementation schedule.
Major Factors Affecting Implementation
27.   Factors outside the control of the Borrower and the Implementing Agencies. The major
factors that affected project implementation were the political instability and the three-year
economic embargo imposed upon the country and the multiple negative consequences derived
from it. The first consequence was the suspension of disbursements of the IDA's credit which
interrupted the procurement process of the generating units. A second consequence was the
deterioration of the economic situation of most of the country's population, which reduced
customer affordability and aggravated the problem of electricity theft and was an important



7
obstacle to tariff increases. This, in turn, aggravated the already critical financial situation of
EdH and affected all its other operations, including implementation of the project.
28.    Factors subject to Government control. These factors included: (i) lack of decision on
the process for the privatization of EdH. The Government changed several times its decision on
the modality of EdH's privatization, which caused a substantial delay on the process. This in
turn, aggravated EdH's performance because of its uncertain future; (ii) the lack of public
support, including the use of public force to EdH's actions devoted to reduce electricity thefts;
(iii) the government's intervention in EdH's technical operations. The Government intervened
extensively on the procurement process for the generating units at Varreux. The MTPTC
disagreed on the award recommendation made by the consultant appointed by EdH and fired the
consultant. This action put project implementation in serious danger. Another intervention that
proved to be very negative was the preparation and agreement of terms of reference and contract
for the TAP without participation of the power utility which had to deal with them.
29.   Factors subject to implementing agency control. The main factors were as follows: (i)
weak institutional capability.  EdH had lost most of its qualified staff prior to project
implementation due to lack of incentives, low salaries and political interference in the utility's
management. During project implementation the job conditions were even less attractive for
qualified staff; (ii) EdH did not make good use of the extensive consulting services made
available to it through the Technical Assistance Program financed by AFD/CIDA (the Program
included some thirteen consultants during a three and half year period). Much of the blame for
this was the lack of EdH's supervision on the consultants work; and (iii) the Commercial and
Financial Directorates lacked adequate management during most of the project implementation
period. EdH's financial statements deserved a disclaimer of opinion by the auditor.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
30.    Sustainability of the project achievements is uncertain. It is highly dependent on the
availability of financial resources for the proper maintenance of the generating units. The most
likely solution to this issue is the project IDB is considering in support of GOH's plans to
concession EdH's to a private company. This project would include an investment component to
meet the maintenance requirements for two years, after which time the private operator will be
fully responsible for all maintenance costs. However, finalization of this operation is subject to
(i) GOH's full support to the proposed concession of EdH's operations to a private company; and
(ii) response from the private sector to the invitation to submit bids for the proposed concession
agreement. At present there are no clear answers to either of these two conditions and,
consequently, sustainability of the achievements of the project is uncertain.
F. IDA PERFORMANCE
31.   IDA's performance was satisfactory during the identification and preparation phases. At
the identification phase, IDA properly assessed project objectives that were consistent with the
GOH's strategy for development. At preparation, IDA rightly assessed the main project issues
and the project components necessary to deal with these issues and assisted the borrower in the
preparation of the project components concurrently with the supervision missions for Credits
1281--HA and 1527-HA.



8
32.    At appraisal, IDA satisfactorily assisted the Government on defining project components
consistent with the project objectives and properly assessed the least cost expansion program for
the power sector, but failed to adequately assess the status of project readiness for its
implementation. Completion of the bidding documents for the procurement of the gas turbines
took more than one year after project appraisal. Preparation of the loss reduction program was
still at a very incipient level. It did not include a plan of action to implement concrete measures,
a list of equipment and goods, nor a detailed cost estimate of the entire program. It only included
terms of reference for the appointment of consultants to assist EdH in the implementation of a
loss reduction program. With that level of preparation in this program, the target to reduce losses
from 40% to 16% was totally unrealistic. IDA had not learned from the previous three operations
in which EdH had failed for similar reasons.
33.    During supervision, IDA's perfornance was satisfactory, but ineffective. IDA was very
sensible in its decision to restructure the project, taking into account the GOH's requests and the
assistance offered by other donors, and to extend the closing date for three years at once. IDA
was also sensible in approving an expedited procurement process for generating units in view of
the urgently needed increase in electricity supply. The supervision documentation provides a
good and realistic assessment of the status of the project, the environment in which it was being
implemented, and the options IDA management faced. It also contributed with recommendations
for permanent sector reforms, particularly with regards to a long-term solution - the privatization
of EdH's operations. However, despite IDA's support, EdH's was unable to comply with the
credit's financial covenants due mainly to the external factors mentioned above and IDA did not
exercise the remedies available in accordance with the Credit Agreement. This lack of drastic
actions by IDA was likely due to the fact that after the severe consequences the embargo had for
the country, the general attitude of all international organizations assisting the country was one of
leniency.
34.    Overall IDA performance was moderately satisfactory: IDA properly identified and
prepared the project but failed to adequately assess the status of project readiness for
implementation at the time of appraisal; during supervision IDA's performance was satisfactory
but failed to achieve an improvement in EdH operational efficiency and financial situation.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.    Borrower's performance was unsatisfactory.  Overwhelmed by the political and
economic problems the Government faced after the embargo, its commitment to project
objectives faltered. The Government was more interested in short-term results, such as the
immediate increase of availability of electricity service at any price, than in taking unpopular
measures for long-term results, such as supporting EdH's actions to cut electricity service to
illegal customers and allowing the necessary tariff restructuring. However, the Government
provided some financial support to EdH by arranging direct payments by the GOH of fuel
procured by EdH, that were later settled towards Government electricity consumption. The main
problem has been the slow progress in sector restructuring and the privatization of EdH, which
was due to lack of high level decisions by Government, caused in part by the lack of a Prime
Minister during almost two years.
36.    The performance of the implementing agency was less than satisfactory. At preparation
stage, EdH was diligent in taking actions and preparing all the information required for project



9
appraisal, including the appointment of consultants, review of consultant reports, preparation of a
least-cost expansion plan and financial projections for the sector. However, during project
implementation, EdH's performance was unsatisfactory.   Specifically, its commercial
performance has been highly unsatisfactory. The extremely high level of electricity losses at the
beginning of project implementation not only was not reduced, but actually increased. It is true
that this problem has several causes, but lack of EdH's commitment on attacking this problem
was undoubtedly one of the causes. EdH's financial performance has also been unsatisfactory
although has improved as of late, based on EdH's provisional financial results for 1998. The
audit reports repeatedly issued disclaimer opinions in reference to EdH's financial statements,
mainly due to problems with billing and customer receivables, asset accounting, long-term debt,
deficiencies in financial management and accounting software and financial management
procedures. In May 1998, based on the auditor's report, EdH prepared a detailed action plan to
improve its financial management system. Implementation of the action plan was substantial in
December 1998.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
37.    Overall, the outcome of the project is unsatisfactory.  Although the main project
objective, the expansion and improvement of EdH's electricity-generating facilities in the city of
Port-au-Prince was fully achieved, the deterioration of EdH's efficiency and the uncertain project
sustainability makes the overall outcome unsatisfactory. EdH's electricity facilities in Port-au-
Prince were expanded within the project cost estimates and experienced a delay of only a few
months with respect to the revised project implementation schedule.  Additionally, the
maintenance and availability of EdH's other generating facilities improved. As a result of both
the expansion of EdH's generating facilities and improved maintenance of the existing ones,
availability of electricity service in Port-au-Prince increased from eight hours to eighteen hours
per day. However, given EdH's critical financial condition and inefficiencies, the maintenance of
both the new and existing generating units is likely to be inadequate if Government does not
accelerate the actions required to transfer EdH's operations to a private investor, which would
allow the sustainability of project-financed investments..
38.    An ex-post analysis of the internal economic rate of return (IERR) for a time slice of
EdH's investment program was conducted utilizing the same format as the analysis included in
the SAR for a different period. Revenues derived from incremental sales were used as a proxy
for benefits. The benefits attributed to EdH's 1995-1998 investment program was assumed at
10% of incremental sales, billed and non-billed, in 1995, 20% in 1996, 40% in 1997, 60% in
1998, 80% in 1999 and 100% from 2001 on. EdH's 1995-1998 investment program's ex-post
IERR and NPV discounted at 10% were estimated at 8.0% and US$-10.6 million, respectively.
Incremental sales were calculated as the total energy delivered by EdH's power plants less the
technical electricity losses estimated at 16%. Non-technical losses (electricity thefts), which
amounted to about 40% in 1998 were included in the sales as non-billed electricity, considering
that although they were not paid to the utility, they still represent an economic benefit.
][. FUTURE OPERATION
39.    The discussions held under the project and the lessons learned from its implementation
contributed to important Government actions that could permit the participation of a private
investor in EdH's operations. A project to help the Government to concession EdH to a private



10
company is being considered by IDB. This project would also include a component to finance
the purchase of goods and spare parts required for the maintenance of EdH's facilities for a
period of two years. Successful implementation of this project and the achievement of its
objectives are fundamental to the sustainability of the project and the development of electricity
service in Haiti. Finalization of the concession arrangements with a private investor is expected
next year.
40.    The Council for the Modernization of Public Enterprises has prepared a schedule for the
preparation of documents to invite private companies to bid for the concession of EdH, to appoint
an investment bank, and to finalize the concession arrangements with the awarded company.
41.    Until the concession arrangements are finalized, EdH will continue monitoring customer
connections to avoid further increase of electricity losses.
42.   If the concession of EdH to a private company is successfully implemented, the
Government should focus its efforts in rural electrification, in particular through the use of solar
and other renewable energy, and in promoting the rational use of energy in the rural areas.
Deforestation is one of the major energy issues in Haiti caused mainly by the inefficient
production and use of charcoal and wood for cooking. It could be mitigated by the development
of forest management schemes by rural communities and the dissemination of practices and
private delivery mechanisms for the efficient use of woodfuels and their substitution with LPG
and kerosene.
43.    EdH has prepared a scheduled maintenance program for all its facilities and the budget
required for its implementation until IDB's proposed operation is effective. EdH already
procured under the project the spare parts for maintenance of the project units during 1999 and
included the cost of the spare parts for its other generating units in its 1999 overall budget.
44.    EdH will continue implementing the action plan prepared in May 1998 to correct the
deficiencies signaled by the auditor. This implementation should be concluded by September
1999.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
45.    The key lessons learned from the implementation of the project are:
(a) EdH is not financially viable under the present institutional arrangements that do not
entail sufficient incentives, autonomy or private involvement.  Its income is
insufficient to meet its costs of operation and maintenance;
(b) the main cause for EdH's low income is the high level of electricity losses which
have not decreased but constantly grown since the First Power Project financed by
IDA, despite the fact that four of the five power projects included the reduction of
losses as one of their objectives; the magnitude of these losses is such that their
reduction will require of substantial investment and of very different institutional
arrangements, with a motivated management;



I1
(c) the lack of adequate maintenance to the power facilities is another crucial issue. EdH
is neglecting the maintenance of its facilities due to both lack of financial resources
to acquire spare parts and insufficient power capacity reserve to allow stopping
operation of its facilities for their maintenance;
(d) the Government has initiated actions to concession EdH to a private company. The
private company should bring into EdH new capital which is indispensable for
expanding the power facilities and drastically reducing electricity losses;
(e) the failure in achieving the loss-reduction objective in this project and in the previous
ones, has been due in part to lack of an adequate preparation of a comprehensive
program which include detailed design of its components, list of equipment,
implementation schedule and complete cost estimates of the implementation and
follow-up actions. The preparation of these elements should have been completed
under project preparation, not during its implementation as was done in the project;
(f) the SAR for the project did not include a political risk analysis. The analysis of this
kind of risks should be made whenever the political environment is unstable. In the
case of the project, the political environment was very unstable at the time of the
SAR;
(g) the risk analysis in SARs/PADs should include the preparation of the utility's
financial projection based on historical levels of efficiency, not on expected and
uncertain improved levels. In the case of the project, EdH's financial projections
assumed substantial efficiency improvements, in particular an unrealistic drastic
reduction of electricity losses;
(h) the support from government, including use of public force, is essential to successful
implementation of a loss-reduction program. The project pilot program for loss
reduction showed that EdH's employees did not have safe access to many
neighborhoods and that the resale of electricity by customers not paying EdH was a
problem;
(i) Technical Assistance Programs (TAP), and even performance-based management
contracts, proved once more that they are ineffective and should be avoided. These
arrangements lack accountability, incentives, power to implement measures and
financial resources to implement such measures;



12
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FIFTH POWER PROJECT (Cr. 2053-HA)
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Macro policies               ._.__._=                                              x
Sector policies                                                   X
Financial objectives                                              X
Institutional development                                         X
Physical objectives                x
Poverty reduction                                                                  x
Gender issues                                                                      x
Other social objectives                                                            x
Environmental objectives
Public sector management                                          x
Private sector development                                        X
Other (capacity building)                         x
B. Project sustainability           Likely        Unlikely        Uncertain
C. IDA performance                  Highly       Satisfactory     Deficient
satisfactory
Identification                                        x
Preparation assistance                                x
Appraisal                                                             X
Supervision                                           x
D. Borrower performance             Highly       Satisfactory     Deficient
satisfactory
Preparation                                           x
Implementation                                                        X
Covenant compliance                                                   X
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome            Highly       Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    Highly
satisfactory                                  unsatisfactory
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _X       _  _  _ _  _



13
TABLE 2: RELATED IDA CREDITS
LoankNed1t t*U                     trpose            I   Ya  of        __        tvs_._:_ --:-
: :LF   . . .       -               __   |  a~~~~~~pproval--::
Preceding Operations
645-HA            Partially finance the first stage of a  1976    Concluded on 03/31/1979 and
two-stage development program for                    rated satisfactory
1976-1981, including installation of
diesel generating units and
distribution network expansion.
895-HA            Finance expansion of diesel         1980        Concluded on 06/30/1984 and
generating capacity and renovation                   rated satisfactory
of the distribution network in Port-
au-Prince.
1281-HA           Finance expansion of thermal         1982        Concluded on 12/31/1986 and
generation, renovation of the Port-                 rated unsatisfactory
au-Prince distribution network.
1527-HA           Finance expansion of thermal         1985        Concluded on 06/30/1989 and
generation, renovation of the Port-                  rated satisfactory
au-Prince distribution network.
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
sftps in piqd-~cyte                 tWy  panne
Identification                                06/86                             06/86
Preparation                                   09/86                             09/86
Pre-Appraisal                                 03/87                             02/87
Appraisal                                     06/87                             06/87
Negotiations                                  11/87                             11/87
Post-Appraisal                                                                  03/89
Board Presentation                            03/88                             06/89
Signing                                       06/88                             08/89
Effectiveness                                 10/88                             01/90
Project Restructuring                                                           07/96
Project Completion                            06/95                             01/99
Closing                                       12/95                             01/99



14
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
(CUMULATIVE)
(In US$ Dollars)
FY 90                                             0.8                        0.0                         0.0
FY 91                                             3.4                        0.0                         0.0
FY 92                                             7.8                        0.1                         0.1
FY 93                                            12.6                        0.1                         0.8
FY 94                                            16.8                        0.1                         0.6
FY 95                                            20.4                        0.1                         0.5
FY 96                                            24.0                        9.9                        41.3
FY 97                                            24.0                        16.3                       67.9
FY 98                                            24.0                       23.2                        96.7
FY 99                                            24.0                       25.4a                      112.5
a/ The Credit was for SDR 18.6 million, equivalent to US$24.0 million at the time of project appraisal and
to US$25.4 million based on actual disbursements.



15
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Estimaed              Actual
ey lmpkmenttino indicators In SAR                                 1995                 199-
Electricity Losses (%)                                            15.0                 55.0
Annual return (%)                                                  8.0                 -9.6
Ratio of customers per staff                                      100:1                81:1
Accounts Receivable (days)                                         60                   181
L                       .   s       .    ~~~~~~~EstimatdAta
Modifit iad- et1rs at Projett Restr-tuljug                                             198
Electricity Losses (%)                                            35.0                 55.0
Annual return (%)                                                  4.0                 -9.6
Ratio of customers per staff                                      85:1                 81:1
Accounts Receivable (days)                                         60                   181
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Key  pefngtin   diators in SAR                   -      -_-_._:
Electricity Losses (%)                                            15.0
Annual return (%)                                                 8.0
Ratio of customers per staff                                     100:1
Accounts Receivable (days)                                         60
M~~~d.iiiators ~~~~~~~~~~~~~stwixnte4                                 Actnal
Electricity Losses (%)                                        30 (in 2005)
Accounts Receivable (days)                                    60 (in 2002)
Maintenance on Varreux Project units (date)                      06/99
Maintenance on other Varreux' units (date)                       12/99
Maintenance on Carrefour Project unit (date)                     06/00
Maintenance on Carrefour's other units (date)                     12/99
Invitation to submit qualification for concession EdH            09/99
Invitation to submit bids for concession EdH                     03/00



16
Finalization concession of EdH                                         06/00
TABLE 7: STUDIES
Site location and cost estimate of    Define the site: size and cost of a next  Completed,  Important for the future
medium-speed diesel generating  power generating project               but final    expansion of the power
plants                                                                 report is    generating facilities
pending
Frequency conversion on the     Feasibility of converting the frequency of   Not    The study was not needed
Ciment d'Haiti Plant            the Ciment d'Haiti plant from 50 hertz to    Completed   because the transmission line
60 hertz                                           to feed the Cement plant was
not constructed.
Institutional development of EdH  Review of EdH's by-law, revise its   Partially    Improvements to EdH's
organizational structure and improve its  Completed   information, accounting and
information, accounting and inventory              inventory control system will
control system                                     positively contribute to the
privatization of EdH
Tariff Study                    This study was not included in the     Completed   Provided basis for the tariff
appraisal                                          increase implemented in 1997
and is providing elements for
the concession of EdH.
Training Program                Implement a training program for manager  Completed   Helped to gain support from
and higher-level staff                             EdH's management and high-
level staff to the privatization
of EdH but it did not
contribute very much to
improve EdH's performance
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Generation Capacity                   2.8          19.3          22.1           2.4           21.6          24.0
Subtransmission Line                  0.3           I .I          1.4
Distribution Equipment                              1.9           1.9           02             0.7           0 .9
Consultant Services                   0.4           1.1           1.5                          1.7           1.7
Training                              0.1           0.6           0.8                          0.2           0.2
Total                                 3.6          24.0          27.6           2.6           24.2          26.8
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
IDA                                  0.0          24.0          24.0            1.2          24.2          25.4
EdH                                  3.6           0.0           3.6            1.4           0.0            1.4
Total                                3.6          24.0          27.6            2.6          24.2          26.8



17
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Internal Rate of Return of EdH 1989-1999 Investment Program
(In US$ million, 1998 constant prices)
Incremental Costs                           Incremental Benefits
Revenues
Capital    O & M        Fuel                  Sales       from        Net
Year   Investment    Costs       Costs       Total      GWh         Sales     Benefits
_~~~~~~~~~~~~
1995        0.1                                0.1                    0.0        -0.1
1996       28.5         0.4        3.3        32.2        14.0        2.0       -30.2
1997       15.1         0.6        6.3        22.0        24.0        3.4       -18.6
1998        6.9         1.0        4.9        12.8       38.6         5.4        -7.4
1999        3.7         1.6        4.9        10.2        61.5        8.6        -1.6
2000                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2001                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2002                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2003                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2004                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2005                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2006                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2007                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2008                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2009                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2010                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2011                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2012                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2013                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2014                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2015                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6          5.4
2016                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2017                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2018                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6         5.4
2019                    2.3         4.9        7.2        90.1       12.6          5.4
ROR=              5.3%
NPV=              -16.6



18
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Development
Credit
4.01       12         Feb-98     CD         The Borrower shall enable EdH    Tariff increased by 5% in Feb
to set electric tariffs as required    1998 (customer resistance in view
to fulfill its obligations.    of poor service quality). The
results of tariff study will help to
design a tariff structure in the
modernization of EdH.
4.02      02                     CD         The Govemment shall settle      Govemment arrears to EDH have
outstanding electric bills to EdH   been significant all along project
by Gov. departments and        implementation (e.g. the
agencies.                      equivalent of 4 months of
electricity consumption 09/30/98)
but are usually settled every tear
through cross-debt settlement
(taking into account tax & debt
due by EDH and fuel payments
made by GOH).
4.04      01                      CP        Audit of SOEs, Special Account   Reports for FY96/97 submitted on
and Project accounts           4130/98. Reports for FY 97/98
are still due, because of EDH
difficulties in closing its financial
statements.
Project                              ___X_=     __ _  __
2.02      05                     C          Procurement to be made in
accordance with Schedule I.
2.05(c-i)  05                    C          EdH to fumish IDA quarterly
reports
2.05(c-    05                     C         Progress reports on plan of     Report prepared since 1996 by
ii)                                         action for Part C of the Project    EDF/HQI Technical Assistance to
EdH management
2.06(a)    05          12/30/98   CD        Preparation of a program for    EdH does not have the financial
reduction of losses            resources to implement this
program.
2.06(b)    05                    CP         Employment of Consultants for   TA under AFD/CIDA financing
Part C of the project          from Jun 1995 to Dec 1998.
3.01(a)    05                    CP         EdH's operations in accordance   Some improvements under above
with sound practices under     TA but sector/EdH reform/
qualified management.          privatization needed for adequate
incentives and autonomy.
3.01(b-i)  05                    C          EdH's management positions      The qualifications of Directors are
filled by persons with         generally adequate. Main problem
qualifications satisfactory to  is lack of incentive.
___________  IDA and Gov.
3.01(b-    05                    CP         Plan of action for recruitment or   Completed: staff census, position
ii)                                         assignment of EdH's staff       definition, staff assessment. Not
done: job description, staff policy.
3.01(b-    05                    NC         Carrying out the action plan    Action plan was not completed
iii)                  _         _          _                                and thus not implemented.
3.01(b-    05                    NC         EdH's ratios of customers per   EdH's ratios are close to targets
iv)                                         staff not lower than 75 in 1996;   72 in 1996; 75 in 1997; 78 in
_____________  ________  80 in 1997 and thereafter.    1998.
3.02      05                     CP         EdH to operate and maintain its   Plant maintenance is at risk
facilities in accordance with  (particularly in production)
sound practices                because of EdH's cash flow
constraints.
3.03      05                     NC         Insure EdH's property           Self insured
3.04      05           May-98    C          Monitoring EdH's dams and       1998 inspection for five year
associated structures by experts   period is satisfactory
once a year.
1 3.06      05                     NC         Reduce total distribution losses    Total losses of 55% in 1996; 56%



19
to 50% in 1996; 42% in 1997;    in 1997; 55% in 1998.
and 35% in 1998 and thereafter.
4.01      05                     CD         Financial statements and audit    Audit report for 1992 through
report produced at the latest five   1995 submitted on 4123/97.
months after the end of each   Report for 1996 (disclaimer of
fiscal year.                   opinion) submitted on 10/23/97.
Report for 1997 submitted
4/30/98.
4.02      02                     NC          EdH's rate of return not less  EdH's actual rate of return was
than 0.5% in 1996; 1.5% in     minus 4.0% in 1996, minus 9.6%
1997: and 4% in 1998 and on.    in 1997.
4.03      02                     NC          EdH's net revenue at least 1.5  Debt service coverage was 0.23 in
times its debt service.        1995, 0.15 in 1996 and -0.15 in
____________  1997.
4.04       02                     CP         Unless agreed with IDA, EdH    All capital expenditure over US$1
shall not make capital         million were financed in
expenditures that would exceed    agreements with donors. Power
by more than 1% the current net   Purchase Agreement signed by
value of its fixed assets in   GPH/EdH for an IPP in Cap
operation, nor enter into any  Haitien (2x5.72 MW, 52.6 GWh)
PPA for more than 10 MW of     without being reviewed by IDA,
capacity or 40 GWh/year.       but agreement not made effective.
4.05      02                      C          EDH shall not use its resources    Resources were insufficient but
for any purpose other than to pay  used for the specified purposes.
the costs of its capital
expenditures, total operating
expenses and debt service
I requirements
4.06      02                      NC         EdH to annually value its fixed    No inventory has been carried out
assets in operation.           since 1989. File record for fixed
assets is unreliable (transfer
ongoing to new software, SAP).
Index for asset revaluation not
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  published  by GOH.
Status:                                                   Covenant Class:
C        - Complied with                                            I Accounts/audit
CD       - Compliance after Delay                                   2 Financial Performance
NC       -Not Complied with                                         5 Management aspects of the Project
CP       - Complied with Partially                                  12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory



20
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
ktt~flwb   zed 'i'k    AI                gX I            pio        c      t2  Gi2k o     t 
No non-compliance
TABLE 12: IDA RESOURCES-STAFF INPUTS
Through Appraisal                                         26.5                                    51,530
Appraisal-Board                                           38.7                                    77,575
Board-Effectiveness                                        8.9                                    16,836.5
Supervision                                               81.1                                   290,358.5
Completion                                                 6                                      17,312
Total                                                     161.2                                   453,612



21
TABLE 13: IDA RESOURCES-MISSIONS
Preparation                Scp-86          2            5         FA,EE
Pre-Appraisal              Feb-87          2           1 1        FA,EE
Post-Appraisal              Jan-89         I            8           EE
Appraisal                   Jun-87         2           10         FA,EE
Supervision                May-90          2           10         EE, EC         3            1           F, M
Supervision                Mar-91          1           15           EE           3            2         F, PR, M
Supervision                Aug-91          2           14         ES, EE         4            2         F, PR, M
Supervision                Nov-94          1           4            EE           4            2         F, PR, M
Supervision                Jun-95         2             5         EE, EC         U            S         F, PR, M
Supervision                Feb-96          2           5          EE, EC         U            S         F, PR, M
Supervision                May-96          I           4            EE           U            S          F, M
Supervision                Sep-96          1           6            EE           U            S          F, M
Supervision                Apr-97         2             5         FA, EE         U            U          F, M
Supervision                Feb-98         2            5        ES,EE, SL        U            U           F,M
EE, FA, ES
Supervision                Jun-98         3            12                        U            U           F,M
FA, ES,
Supervision/ICR            Nov-98          3            7          CON           U            U          F, M
EE       Electrical Engineer         S         Satisfactory                F        Financial problems
ES       Energy Specialist           U         Unsatisfactory              PR       Procurement problems
EC       Energy Economist            I         Highly satisfactory         M        Management problems
FA       Financial Analyst           2         Satisfactory
SL       Sector Leader               3         Unsatisfactory
CON      Consultant                  4         Highly unsatisfactory



22
APPENDIX 1
Aide Memoire
IDA Implementation Completion Mission to
Evaluate the Fifth Power Project (Cr. 2053-HA)
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, November 2-9, 1998
1.    A mission of the International Development Association (IDA) comprised of Mr.
Philippe Durand, Task Manager, and Mr. Marcelo Osorio, Consultant, visited Port-au-Prince on
November 2-9, 1998 to: (a) assess the achievements obtained under the above project; (b) collect
information for the preparation of the ICR Report; and (c) assist EDH in the preparation of its
own Completion Report for the Power Fifth Project financed under Credit 2053-HA. The Mission
wishes to express its gratitude for the efficient cooperation and the courtesies provided to the
Mission both by Government authorities and by the officials and staff of EDH. Annex A included
a list of the officials and staff with whom the Mission met. Following is a summary of the most
important issues covered by the Mission and the corresponding agreements. The mission
findings reflected in this Aide Memoire will be subject to the approval of IDA management and
the final version of the Aide Memoire will be attached to the Implementation Completion Report.
Project Objectives and Components
2.    The objectives of the Project were: (a) to expand and improve EDH's electricity-
generating facilities in the city of Port-au-Prince in accordance with a least-cost expansion
program; (b) to supply electricity to the cities of Hinche and Thomonde; and (c) to improve
EDH's efficiency. To meet these objectives, the Project included eight components grouped into
three Parts: Part A: Physical Investments, Part B: Studies, and Part C: Institutional Development.
The Credit was approved on June 27, 1989 and became effective on January 16, 1990.
3.    The project objectives were consistent with the country economic objectives and
development strategy, but the project components were not sufficient to meet those objectives,
especially to improve EDH's efficiency.
Project Restructuring
4.    Project implementation was interrupted in 1991 at a very initial stage due to the
suspension of credit disbursements that followed the political crisis in the country. In 1994, when
the suspension was lifted, the electricity system had deteriorated dramatically, electricity service
was only available during some six hours per day, and EDH was in precarious financial
condition. Consultants were appointed to study a strategy to develop the power sector and they
concluded recommending full privatization of EDH. In 1996, IDB approved a MIF grant to
finance consultant services to assist the Government in transferring EDH to a private company.
The Government requested IDA to eliminate part of the institutional development component
from the project, specifically the review of EDH's by-laws and the revision of its organizational
structure, while maintaining the project institutional sub-component for the improvement of
EDH's information, accounting and inventory control systems. Funds from this component were
reallocated to increase the installation of additional power capacity. Additionally, the Peligre-



23
Hinche transmission line was substituted by small power generators installed in the cities of
Hinche and Thomonde, under EdH self financing.
5.    In addition to IDA Credit, several donors have contributed to the development of the
power sector during the period 1995-1998. USAID financed the consultants to advise the
Government on a strategy to reform and develop the power sector. The European Union
financed the installation of a 10 MW diesel unit at Varreux, the rehabilitation of existing power
generating units at Varreux and some improvements at Peligre hydroelectric power plant. The
Government of Canada financed the installation of small diesel units. KfW financed the
installation of a 350 KW mini hydro plant. IDB financed some improvements of the electricity
network. France and Canada financed a management assistance program to strengthen EDH's
management during the transition period until its expected privatization.
Project Evaluation and Achievements
6.     The Government and EDH acknowledge that project objectives have only been partially
achieved and that sustainability of the achievements obtained under the Project is uncertain at
present. The power generating facilities were expanded, but conditions of the existing facilities
have not improved. However, thermal power production increased from 220 GWh in 1988 and
203 GWh in 1995, to 409 GWh in 1997. The project had a positive impact on end-use customers,
since electricity service was provided during 18 hours on average in 1998, as compared to only 8
hours in 1995. The supply of electricity to the cities of Hinche and Thomonde has been achieved
through the installation of small generating units financed with local funds. Improvement of
EDH's efficiency has not been achieved. On the contrary, EDH's efficiency has significantly
decreased. Financial losses have consistently increased since 1994. Electricity losses increased
from 29% in 1989 to 48% in 1994 and to 56% in 1995, although they remained stable at this level
thereafter. Despite significant improvements in EDH's financial management since 1994, the
auditor still expressed a disclaimer of opinion on the 1996/97 financial statements.
7. The main achievements obtained under the Project are: (i) installation of 31 MW of new
power generation capacity, out of which 21 MW were co-financed be ACDI from Canada and
were installed at the Varreux power plant, and a 10 MW diesel unit installed at the Carrefour
power plant is expected to be commissioned by January 1999. Regarding the Varreux extension,
the mission was informed by EDH that the schedule of completion tests will be agreed with the
contractor by the end of November 1998 and that some claims presented by both the contractor
and EDH are still to be settled in accordance with contract dispositions, (ii) preparation of pre-
feasibility studies for the installation of a new 60 MW diesel plant, (iii) execution of a pilot loss-
reduction program to be completed by EDH in 1999, (iv) preparation of a tariff study; (v)
acquisition of new software for accounting. Implementation of this software and training of the
corresponding staff would be completed by mid-1999, and (vi) implementation of a training
program on management skills for EDH's staff.
Privatization of EDH
8.    The CMEP has conducted studies since 1996, under IDB financing, to assess options for
increasing private participation in the power sector. Three options have been examined, as
entailed in the Law that created CMEP: (i) capitalization; (ii) concession; (iii) management
contract. The Mission was informed by CMEP that they are considering capitalization as the



24
preferred option and plans to consult the interest of potential investors early in 1999. If the
response is favorable, the capitalization would be implemented during 1999 with support from a
financial adviser or an investment bank.
9.     Since the capitalization could require an extended period for its implementation, in the
mission's opinion, strengthening of EDH's management during this period will be crucial to
avoid further deterioration of its facilities and operations. A qualified and experienced small team
with total management control could be appointed expeditiously. Additional resources will also
be needed for proper operation of generation facilities and improvement of commercial
performance.
Factors that affected Project Implementation
10.   In the mission's opinion, the main factors that affected negatively project implementation
included the following; on the Borrower's side, (i) political instability that characterized the
country during the period 1986-1995 which caused, in tum, instability in EDH's management and
technical staff. The General Director was changed eight times, the technical staff left the utility or
was moved from their posts without explanation, and unqualified staff increased for political
considerations, (ii) deterioration of the country economic conditions during the embargo period
(1991-94). This circumstance promoted a large exodus of the poorest population living in the
rural areas to the capital and increased the number of electricity consumers well above EDH's
capacity to control them. It also facilitated the establishment of fraudulent networks to steal
electricity from EDH and resell to poor neighbors, (iii) poor EDH management with lack of
delegation and incentives to improve performance. Management has been further weakened by
Government's delay in taking decisions on EDH's future, (iv) an ineffective management
assistance program, due in part to a poorly designed assistance contract without incentives linked
to results, (v) lack of a legal framework that permits effective and timely sanctions to fraudulent
consumers; and (vi) insufficient measures by the Government and EDH Board to address EDH's
deteriorating financial situation; and on IDA's side, (i) changes in project supervision teams, (ii)
complex procurement procedures, and (iii) design of project restructuring that underestimated the
lead time necessary for power sector reform and EDH financial recovery.
Borrower's Completion Report
11.   In accordance with the Credit Agreement, the Borrower is committed to prepare a
Completion Report at the end of project implementation. The mission advised the Government
and EDH on the preparation of this report, which should include:
(i) an assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation, and operation experience;
(ii) an evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation of
the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future; and
(iii) an evaluation of the performance of IDA and any co-financiers during the evolution and
implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of the relationship between the
borrower, IDA, and co-financiers, with special emphasis on lessons learned.



25
12.    A more detailed scope of the report is included in Annex B to this Aide Memoire.
Preferably the report should be limited to ten pages. If it is more than ten pages, it should include
a summary. The Borrower Completion Report will be sent to IDA by February 28, 1999 (see
timetable in Annex C).
13.    EDH informed the Mission that Mr. Jules Andre Joseph will be responsible for preparing
EDH's contribution to the report and for coordinating with the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(MEF) for the preparation of the complete report. The MEF will inform IDA shortly of the name
of a senior official that will be responsible for the report.
Project Sustainability
14.   In the mission's opinion, sustainability of the power facilities installed under the Project
will be highly dependent on the success of the ongoing process to engage a private operator and
investor for the electricity service. Given EDH's precarious financial situation, it will not be in a
position to properly maintain the facilities installed under the Project solely with its own
resources. If a private operator is not engaged soon, within an adequate legal and regulatory
framework for the power sector, sustainability of the Project is unlikely.
Operation Plan
15.    The Mission discussed with EDH the preparation of an Operational Plan for the Project,
which must be attached to the Borrower's Completion Report. It was agreed that this plan would
include:
(i) a five-year scheduled maintenance program for the Varreux and Carrefour Power Stations;
(ii) a plan for the maintenance of the efficiency component achieved through two pilot loss-
reduction programs during 1999;
(iii) a plan of actions for the improvement of the environmental conditions of the Varreux and
Carrefour Power Stations;
(iv) annual cost estimates of the above maintenance programs;
(v) EDH's budget for FY 1999 that includes the provisions for the above maintenance programs
and a mechanism for actual mobilization and commitment of these funds; and
(vi) a schedule for the privatization process of EDH's.
Performance Indicators
16.   It was agreed to adopt the following performance indicators to monitor future operations
and development impact of the Project:
(i)    level of electricity losses;
(ii)    percentage of the population with access to the electricity service;
(iii)   availability, in percentage of time, of the generating units installed under the project;



26
(iv)   number and duration of electricity outages;
(v)    average electricity tariff;
(vi)   actual vs. scheduled actions for EDH's privatization.
Additional information
17.   EDH agreed to provide IDA, by December 31, 1998, with the detailed information that is
still required for the preparation of the ICR, in particular the necessary data for the assessment of
project benefits.
Claude Elisma                             Philippe Durand
General Director                          Task manager
EDH                                       IDA



27
APPENDIX 2
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
SECRETARIAT OF FINANCE
FIFTH ENERGY PROJECT (Cr. 2053-HA)
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR






P. 2/9
Seme CREDIT PROJET ENERGIE HA-2053
REPUBLIQUE D'HAITI
BANQUE MONDIALF
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
JuIN 1999



TABLEZ DES MATIERES
PREFACE
EVALUATION SOMMAIRE
(i)       Introduction.............................................................................
(ii)      Objectifs du projet ......................................................................
(iii)     Experience de, la mise ouvre et resultats ............................................
(iv)      Operation future et lecons apprises .......................................
PARTIE I EVALUATION DE LA MISE EN (EUVRE DU PROJET
(i)       Objectifs du projet 
(ii)   Atteinte des objectifs  ..................
(iii)     Facteurs ayant affecze la mise en ouvre du Projet .................................
(iv)      Viabilite du Projet
(v)   Performance de la Banque
(vi)   Performance de l'Empruntsur
(vii)    Exploitation des resultats
(viii)   Operations ftures
(ix)   Le9ons apprises
PARTIE II.- TABLEAUX RASUMtS
(i)  Sommaire des investissements.
(ii) Cofinancement..
(iii)     Ech6ancier des projets ...............................................................
(iv)      D6caissements de la Banqie: Curnulatif estime et reel ........................
(v)       Indicateurs pour la mise en cuvre du Projet .....................................
(vi)      Indicateurs pour l'exploitation du Projet ..........................................
(vii)  Etudes realisees dans le cadre du Projet ..........
(viii)   CoCits du Projet ......................................................................
(ix)      Financement du Projet ............................................................
(x)       Couits economiques et beneficos ...................................................
(xi)      Indicateurs de performance ...............................
(xii)    Concordance avec le manuel de procedures d'exploitation ....................
(xiii)   Ressources de la Banque: personnel ..............................................
(xiv)   Ressources de la Banque : missions ..............................................
2



PREFACE
Le rapport intitule rapport d'ach4vemrnt est redige pour repondre aux ternes qui etaient
convenus dans les accords de Credit et tie Projet d'une part, de I'autre pour dresser un bilan
des actions qui ont ete entreprises dans le cadre de ce financement. C e rapport pr6sente une
evaluation du projet qui tient compte dcs circonstances difficiles particulieres dans lesquelles
il a evolue ces demieres annees-
Afin de permettre d'appr6cier la port6e des rdalisations de ce financement, la Direction
GJenrale de 1'Electricit6 d'Haiti s'asso sie au Gouvernement de la Rdpublique d'Haiti pour
presenter ce rapport qui analyse les efforis, les faiblesses. ls attentes des divers partis associts
dans 1'execution des difftrentes composantes du projer.
3



Sme CREDI7.. PROJET ENERGIE RA-2053
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
EVALUATION SOMMAIRE.-
(i)   INTRODUCTION.-
Dans le cadre du plan quinquennal  d'investissements de l'Electricit6 d'Hayti, le
Gouvernement de la Rpublique d'Haiti a signe avec la Banque mondiale un accord de Credit
d'un montant de DTS 18 600 000 pouw financer le 5'O  Projet d'Energie. Cet Accord visait
particuli6rement a arn6liorer 1'efficience, la viabilite et la performance du secteur de l'energie
electrique
Deux accords auxiliaires furent ainsi signes pour expliciter les conditions d'utilisation du
financement et faciliter la mise en oeuJre: le premier denomme Accord de Projet etabli entre
l'unite d'execution Electriciti d'Haiti et la Banque Mondiale qui d6finit les modalites de
decaissements, de passation des march6s, les indicateurs de performance et de suivi des
activites, le second denomme Accord de prat subsidiaire etabli entre le Gouvernemeni
Hai-lien et 1'Electriciti d'Hai' qui fixe les conditions de remboursement de ce financement
fait sous forrne de pret a Electricit6 D'Haiti par le Gouvernement
Le rapport qui suit dresse le bilan de s rda1isations et des objectifs atteints.
(iH) OBJECTIFS DU P1ROJET. -
L'objectif du Projet visait a contribuer A la croissance economique du pays par la
foumiture d'une 6nergie electrique fi; ble pour 1'expansion de la production industrielle et
commerciale, a arn6liorer la performance du secteur de l'energie electrique et a renforcer la
capacite manageriale de EDH .
A ce titre, plusieurs activit6s furent retenues, a savoir:
* Installation de 20 MW de turbines a gaz
* Etude de site pour une niouvelle centrale thernique
*  Construction d'une ligne de 42 kms a partir de Pdligre pour alimenter Hinche et Thornonde
*  Developpement de programmes ei acquisition de materiel pour la reduction des pertes
*  Conversion de la frtquence du courant de Ciment d'Haiti de maniere a pouvoir l'alimenter
h partir du rdseau de EDH. (Fr6querce Ciment: 50 HZ, fr6quence EDH 60 HZ)
* Renforcemnent institutionnel
* Programme de formation sur 3 ans
4



En vue d'evaluer le niveau d'atteinte dec objectifs, des indicateurs de controle furent etablis et
pr6sentds cormme suit:
MICATMS       1Y 8          - 199 19    9                 9 1995          I$6
EMPLOYES     64       72      78       E R1     3g      92
TAUX DES PhAT4          MI      .
'-RETOUI 5U   7                                        l_
U4VESTISSENMES    3.5%  4 5%     55    5S5%       6%      7%       8%            I
(iii)  EXPERIENCES DANS LA M)SE EN (EUVRE ET RESULTATS
La mise en ceuvre du Cridit n'a pa; suivi exactement le profil qui etait planifie a la
conception mneme du Projet Plusieurs modifications et ajustements furent operes pour tenir
compte d'une part des donnees sociales, economiques et politiques qui ont de beaucoup
change' comparativement aux pr6visions , de l'autre, des situations conjoncturelles
particulieres pour lesquelles une urgenc ou une priorite se faisait sentir-
Relafif a la difinition des composanles:
L Les 20 MW de turbines i gaz ont dte remplac6s par la construction d'une centrale de
15 MW et l'installation d'une nouvelle unite de IO MW a Carrefour.
* Le projet de ligne pour alimentey Hinche et Thomonde a partir de Peligre a dte annu.1e
EDH a installe de nouveaux groipes Diesel dans ces deux villes
* La conversion de la frequencc du courant de Ciment d'Haiti a ete annul6e, ce projet
n'etait plus justifie en raison du projet de Reseau national qui a et discontinue par
faute de financement promis par la BID
*  Une nouvelle activite a ete ajoutee: la mise a jour de 1'6tude tarifaire realisee par
Monenco en 1986.
* Relatif awx indicateurs:
De nouvelles valeurs d'indicateurs ont Ft  convenues et fixees A la baisse lors de
l'amendement de 1996 et celles-ci figuient dans le tableau qui suit. Y sont 6galement inscrits
les resultats obtenus pour chactn de ces indicateurs.
INDICATEUWS       M96   ,1997                         199             1999
vAu.SUR   VAL9Uf -VEUa A   VALEUR  VALEUR A   VALIJUR  VA.LEUR A     EIUR
A    osTENUE  OBTENIR  OFTFEUE  OBTENIR   OTENUE  OBTFNIR  OITENUE
OHTENIR
tUENTS I     Min
tMPLOYES     75%     77%      WAl_ 7_.           %5Y   R8%      a._ _
TAUX DES rATES    MW    
50%     56     42%      50%     JS%      35Y. 135%  ___I
RETOUKSUK     Mu_
INVUSTISSEMENTS   0.5%  (4%)     iSV.    (9.66 A)    4%1  ( %)     >4Y.    (13Y
* Relatifa Ia rla4isation des compos*intes
5



*  La composante construction de la centrale de Varreux (II) 15/21 MW, et celle de
l'unitd de 10 MW a Carrefour ont occasionn6 des couts suppl6mentaires pour assurer
une supervision plus soutenue en raison des retards occasionnes par une mauvaise
evaluation des parametres de chantier et des conditions environnementales de la part
des entrepreneurs. De meme, pour P etude de site de la nouvelle centrale thermique de
60 MW, les termes de r6f6rencc ont ete modifies pour prendre en compte l'execution
du processus de modernisation.
*  Dans le domaine de la reduction des pertes, les interventions realis6es dans la zone
pilote I ont permis de mesurer le degre de mobilisation et de supervision i consentir
pour obtenir et conserver des res titats. Ainsi, dans le projet de la deuxieme zone, la
strat6gie adoptee a k  de prdfdrence la rehabilitation des branchements en mauvais 6tat
et non de tous les branchements comme dans la premikre zone pilote .
*  La composante du renforcement institutionnelle n'a pas ete reprise au deblocage du
Cr6dit. Toutefois, ce volet a ete pAis en compte dans Ic contrat d'assistance technique
operationnelle signe avec le groupement EDF-HQI sous financement de I'AFD
(Agence Fransaise de D6veloppement ) et de l'ACDI ( Agence Canadienme pour le
Developpement International) pour le redressement. De plus, I'Etat Haytien, par
l'intermediaire du CMEP ( Conseil de Modemisation des Entreprises Publiques ),
prend en charge l'ensemble de la r6forrne du secteur.
(iv)   OPERATIONS FUTURES ET LECONS APPRISES
Dans le domaine de la production, les 6 unites de la Centrale ihermique de Varreux If qui
totalisent 21 MW et celle de 10 MW di Carrefour, sont programmees pour permettre leur
exploitation normale. Toutes les pie :es d'urgence et d'entretiens prograrnmds sont
commanddes ou en processus de commande. Le personnel d'exploitation a b6n6ficid d'une
formation sur site, d'autres sont programmees chez les fournisseurs Caterpillar et Pielstick.
L'etude de site de la nouvelle centrale d ', 60 MW a 6td soumise a certains bailleurs de fonds
pour information et participation financiere eventuelle.
Le programme de r6duction des pertes tcl qu'engage au niveau des zones pilotes I et II, a e6
repensd. Les approches retenues et appliqudes avaient implique de grandes mobilisations de
ressources dans une aire concentree de commercialisation et de ce fait ont ralenti I'avancement
des autres actions commerciales. Ainsi, de nouveaux programnmes moins contraignants en
matiere de ressources et d'un impact plus 6tendu ont etd identifies et engages coimme le
CCN (remplacement des compteurs a, consommation nulle), PREIPIREF (programme
d'enl&vement intensif des prises illicites et de recup6ration des fraudeurs), numerotation des
po:ieaux, reperage automatique des clients, compression des delais de satisfaction des
demandes.
Les resultats de i'etude de la revision tarifaire sont disponibles et la mise en application d'une
premiere tranche de 10 % est soumise aux autorites de turelle pour approbation.
Du point de vue du renforcement inst-tationnel, le programme de modemisation retient la
priorit6; toutefois un nouveau plan d'azions a court terrne allant d'Avril 1999 a Mars 2000
est en application actuellement.
6



PARTIE I
EVALUATION DE LA MISE EN  ;EUVRE IDU PROJET
(i)    OBJECTIPS DU PROJET
Les objectifs tels que pr6senids dans 'evaluation somnrnaire couvrent les domaines de la
production, de la r6duction des pertes, du tarif, de la fornation. Les activites qui etaieut
retenues en 1989 ont eti ajustees en cours d'execution pour adapter le Projet aux priorites des
situations nouvelles commc en 1991 avec la realisation des elections democratiques
nationales, et en 1996 le r6tablissement. de l'ordre constitutionnel. Le tableau suivant fait une
presentation de ces activites:
Objecif-s          Descripition des diffirentes      Remarques
activites identifiees durant lc
cycle du projet
Augmenter et ameliorer la *  Installation de 20 MW de *  Cette  activite  a  ete
capacit6 de production  de   turbines a gaz              remplacee           par
EDH                                                      l'installation de 25 MW
Diesel, en deux tranches,
c-a-d une tranche de 15
MW i VarTeux et une
unite de 10 MW a la
centrale de Carrefour.
*  Etude de site pour une *  Cette  etude   a   ete
nouwelle centrale de 60    maintenue. Des options
MW                         suppl6mentaires ont 6td
prses en compte dans
1'6tude comme l'option
barge, les divers types de
financement
*  Conversion    de    la *  Activit6 remplac6e
frdquence du Reseau de
Ciment d'Haiti
*  Alirnenter en tnergie les *  Activit6 annulde
villes de Thomonde et de
Hinche
Ameliorer la performance de *  Rduction des pertes    *  Activit6 maintenue
EDH                        *  Revision   de   l'etude *  Activite ajoutie
tariiaire
*  Fornation sur 3 ans     *  Activite maintenue
7



Nouveau   systeme   de *  Activite ajoutde
comptabilite infornatis6
(ii)    ATTEXNTE DES OBJECTIFS
Les tableaux qui suivent decrivent le degre d'atteinte des objectifs fixes tant en mati6re de
travaux realises qu'en matiere de niveaux d'indicateurs:
OBJECTIFS VISES   DESCRIPTION                      NIVEAU DE              REMARQUES
DES              REALISATION
COMPOSANTES                JIUIN 1999
a)   Augmenter   et A-]-a-).-  Installation         REALISEE           Des   retards   furent
ameliorer la capaciIe  de 15 MW  Diesel a               100%           enregistr6s   dans  la
de production           Varreux                La  centralc  a  une  construction et la mise
capacite de 21 MW   en service (environ 8
dont 15 MW  finances  mois).  L'entrepreneur
par IDA et 6 MW par HQI-VIBEC    a   dt6
penalisd A cet effet. Les
I'ACDI. Elle est en  tests de performance ne
service depuis 1996 et sont pas encore faits. Ils
fonctionne au mazout sont prevus apr6s  la
et au gasoil avec une  revision des 10000 h des
puissance de 18 MW   groupes qui doit prendre
soit 85%  des 21 MW   fin d'ici AoOt 1999.
installes.
A-i-b).-  InsWa11ation      REALISEE           L'entepreneur    SEMT
d'une nouvelle unite            100%           PIELSTICK a dt6 penalisi
de 10 MW a Carrefour  L'unitt  C6  est  en  A cet effeL
service  de.uis Avril Le rotor qui prisentait des
service  depuis Avril anomalies en Ddcembre
1999. soit 4  mois  1998 et qui a ete ripar6 &
apres la date prevue  la reception d'Avril 1999,
pour   la  rdception  sera remplacd par un rotor
neuf d'ici Novembre 1999.
provisoire.   La banque refuse de payer
le   dernier   paiement
dlO%, raison: la date de
______ ______ ______ _  ____ _____ ______ ____   _ ______ ______ _____ cl8wure   du   crtdit  a   expirE.
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



B-l).- Etude de site     REALISEE          Les  irsultats   de
pour  une  rpremi6re         I 00%/       1'etude    ont   ete
tranche de centrale de La firme DECON  a pr6sentes a certains
60 MW Diesel         remis  les  rapports bailleurs de fonds qui
pr6vus  au  contrat: avaient manifeste leur
Analyse et choix du interet
site,    6tude    de
1'environnement,
ddveloppement de la
zone, faisabifit6  du
projet. Le site retenu
parmi une dizaine est
celui de St Christophe.
OBJECTIFS VISES        DESCRIPKION            NIVEAU DE            REMARQUES
DES             REALISATION
COMPOSANTES             JUIN 1999
b)   Alimenter   en                             REALISE          Projet abandonmn  en
energie electrique les                        AUTREMENT          1995, en raison d'une
villes de Hinche et de                                           sous-estimation   des
Thomonde                                                         coiats  et dtlais  de
realisation de 1'6tude
d'une pan, et d'autre
part, des nouvelles
unites de production
qui ont ete instalIles
dans ces villes par
EDH
a) Ameliorer      la A-2).- Programme de        VEALISEE         Les  resultats  sont
performance   de reduction de pertes           100%          appreciables:     la
EDH                                     Deux    programmes premiere   zone   a
piloces    ont   ete accuse uDe baisse de
executes: le premier 16%  du niveau des
finance  par  EDH, pertes, la deuxieme est
AFD, BID, dans une en cours d'evaluation.
zone du centre ville NdannoIns, iU faudra
touchant 6000 clients, souligner  que  les
le deuxieme dans une risultats obtenus dans
autre zone du centre la premi6re zone n'ont
ville et qui touche pas pu ere maintenus
5000 clients.        a leur niveau en raison
des moyens de suivi
dnormes et complexes
a mettre en place pour
les garantir.
9



B-2).- Revision &tude     REALISEE         Cette    composante
tarifaire                    100%          remplace celle de la
La revision de 1'dtude conversion   de  la
tarifaire a etd realis6e frdquence    Ciment
par MONENCO. Les d'HaYti  qui  a  dte
rapports ont ete remis, abandonne en raison
pr6sentant la nouvelle du   projet  reseau
structure du tarif a national qui n'a pas
adopter en fonction du etd  finance  comrne
contexte economique prevu.
actuel et futur.
OBJECTIFS VISES        DESCRIPTION            NIVEAU DE            REMAERQUIES
DES             REALISATION
COMPOSANT(ES             JUIN 1999
c)   Ameliorer   la C-2).-Assistance           REALISEE          Les   services   de
performance de EDH  technique                      100%          supervision qui dtaient
(suite)                                    De        l'assistance prevus au dernarrage
technique   a   ite  des   contrats   de
engag6e au niveau de; construction  de  la
  La       reforme centrale de 21 MW et
institutionnelle  celle du groupe de 10
(courte periode en MW      ont    dte
1991)            extensiorines en raison
*  L'unite de gestion  des  retards et des
du 5eme credit ( 6 difficultds enregistres
mois)             dans 1'ex6cution des
*  L'execution    du travaux.
progrannme   des
pertes ( 2 ans)
*  La supervision des
travaux       de
construction   des
contrales:  15/21
MW et 10 MW (
pendant toute la
duree des travaux)
10



C-l).-Programime  de -    REALISEE         D'autres programmes
formation sur 3 ans          100%          de formation avaient
Programme        de ete         dgalement
formation  tenu  en organises et finances
HaYti ( 3 mois, 36 par EDH et touchaient
cadres superieurs) et a tous   les   autres
1'exterieur (15 jours, 6 niveaux: 100 cadres
cadres parmi les 36). internmdiaires.
Le theme principal a
dte la gestion modeme
d'une      enteprise
d'energie electrique.
(iii)  FACTEURS AYANT AFFECTE LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET
D'une manitre generale:
a) Le choix des objectifs du Projet en 1989 par rapport aux r6alit6s socio-economiques
dans la periode d'ex6cution
b) La crise socio-politique qui a seccue le pays de 1991 aL 1994
c) Le faible niveau d'accompagnement de la police et des autorites judiciaires dans
I'application des programmes de reduction des pernes
d) Le gel des programmes d'6quipements dans le secteur sur la periode 1991-1999
e) L'effet dimotivanw du processus de privatisation sur le personnel
f) La faiblesse des investissements par rapport aux besoins du secteur
D'une mani6re specifique -
Les modalites de gestion et de suivi du .,ofinancernent de la centrale de 21 MW par l'ACDI
n$avaient pas ete c)airement definies, L'entrepreneur presentait directement les factures
corr4latives directement i I'Agence, sans etre soumises au prcalable a une approbation du
maitre d'ouvrage.
Au niveau de l'installation' du groupe du 10 MW, les difficultes rencontr6es residaient
particulierernent dans les  mauvaises coordinations des activites des sous-traitants du
constructeur.
(iv) VIABILITE DU PROJET
Tel qu'il a dte d6jh dit, 3es activites realisees dans le cadre de ce Projet sont toutes inscrites
dans des programmes reguliers d'exploitation ou de gestion de l'entreprise
Ainsi, les unites de production qui sont install6es a Varreux et i Carefour sont pourvues de
pieces de rechange pour l'entretien. Le personnel suit pr6sentement une deuxieme phase de
formnatior. Un plan d'ajustement salarial et de promotion inteme est en place pour naintenir la
motivation i I'int6rieur de ces unites.
L'6tude de site de la nouvelle centrale a ete realisee en prenant en compte toutes les options
qui pourTaient se prdsenter tant du point de vue technique que financier telle option barge,
11



financement semi-prive avec ou sans participation de bailleurs de fonds. Aussi, les rdsultats
peuvent -ils ere utilises par n'importe quel operateur qui aurait i gerer 1'entreprise.
Les experiences effectuhes au niveau des zones pilotes I et 1I pour la reduction des pertes ont
perrnis de retenir des approches plut6t simples qui ne necessitent pas de crop grandes
mobilisations ; les ressources humaines qualifiees 6tant limitees.
Le nouveau logiciel utilise pour la comptabilite inforrnatisee, le SAP-R3, est operationnel. Le
personnel du departement informatique est forme a cet effer pour son exploitation et son
entretien.
La revision de 1'6tude tarifaire par Monenco prend en compte tous les aspects qui pourraient
influencer la structure du tarif comme des tarifs moderxs ou forfaitaires pour les clients dans
les zones marginales....
(v)  PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE
Dans son ensemble, la perforynance de la Banque mondiale est acceptable bien que certaines
remarques soient a formuler, a savoir:
* Les changements de cornportement de la Banque qui a fait montre de souplesse au
d6blocage du Credit en 1995, et de rigidit6 i la fermeture du Credit en 1998
* Les delais enregistres dans le traitement de certains dossiers soumis pour approbation,
comme les demandes de decaissements, les documents d'appel d'offres
* Les changements de charge de projets sur la durie du Credit
*Le non realisme de l'Accord tel que reconduit en 1996 en ce qui a trait particuli6rement
aux indicateurs de performance
(vi)  PERF'ORMANCE DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
Tels qu'inscrites dans les accords de credit, de projet et subsidiaire, les obligations de
I'Emprunteur peuvent etre appreciees comine suit:
Clause             -MscP.PTION SO)MMAIRE                        Statut                   OBSERVATIONS
C 4.01    Le (iouvememcnli doit auioriser EDH A fixer les Larir   7eFspeaF  NDeux ajustemcnts ont Atd effYctuts par EDO  et
d'lecLricit6 A un niveau lui permteiant tde SacqutLer de paniallemeni approuv'6 par Ic Gouvcrnment tunde 25%cn 1995-
ses obligations                                                  1996 et un autre de 5% en 1997. Un troisiem  de
I'ordre dti 106%  es! soumis aSux autorii6s pour
________ _  _____________________ ___________________________   _ Dapprobatinn.
C 4.02    Lc Gouvecmencnt doit reglar ses factures d'Alceiricitd  Rcspcctd   Le (uouvarnerneni a convenu at respecti laceord qui
a ct6 signi a cct efet. De plus, des protocoles
d'accord onr ACe signcs entre EDH Ct le Ministre det
Finances qui fixent des avanacs de piiernent du
Gouvemcmcnt
P 3.01    Les postes de Direction de I EDH dOivcnt eire cOmbils   Respacte  PRespcctc
(b) (i)    par des personnas sutx qualifications jugecs salishtisantes
par I 71DA C. Ic Oouvcrnement
'P3.06     Ramener les penes totales i 35 / ecn 1998           Non respect6 Les r6ducLiOns des penes doivnth imp7iquer I'Etms
aux plus hauts niveaux
C 4.04   Audit annual du Comple spicial et des reliivs de   Respecid   Le demier en cours c--td pour 1'exercice 97-9k scm
d6penses                                                         achcvt sou; peu. Une premicre pantic, celle du
compic du Stnc Projet est dAjA tenminde et remisc s
la Banque.
P 2.02   Passaxion des marchcs conrtymnemen aux directives de In   Rcspcctd
Banquc
Y 2-05   Founiturc dc rapporms crimcstriels                   Respecte   Les rappons trinmestriels  ont pas etr remis pourleS
(c) (i)                                                                   dcux demiars IrimeStres. Le rapport d'achevemenr
avail Ia prioriti
P Z.05   l'ouiture ae rapporis annuclt sur le voict rcnlb'ement   Respecic
12



(a) ii)  institutuonnel
P 2.06 (a) Prepaition d'un proranmmc de r6duction de; penes dc   Kespecte    Les            unn  pu  trc plus sa_isf6sants s'l y
distribution                                                        ay avail eu des mesuros d'aecompapnament
P 2.06 (h) Emploi de consulano  pour Ie voleL rniborccment   Respecte   Assistanca founie par EFD et HiQI depuis 1996 SOUS
institutionnel du projet                                            Rinancement AFD et ACDI
P 3.01 (a)  DI)H  doit mener ses opdrasions selon=l  imitodos   ReSpecid   Amelioration   constls6ed  avec  inaSisMance  du
appropri6es et Sous la superviiion de cadres quaiiliis  pareiallernent Groupement EDF et H!Q.
p 3.0  (b) Plan d'acion pour ia roerulament Ol raftectiun du   Respecte   En faison de la presion de modernisation, ii $*est
(i)     pcrsonnel d'EDH                                       panicilcment avirt difflcile de convcnir une politique de carricre.
Toutefois un plan d'acion a el6 mis en application
comme le gel dcs embauches- Ic rodtploiemenr du
personnel. la fonnadon.
Y 3.01 (b) Lao r-atiaelicnzLmployes ne pew Cra infdrj;ur -a75% an  Rcspeci en  Cc rario esi de 85% en i9998
(iv)    1996, SO/o en 1997, 85% i parir de 1998                   1998
P3.02    EDH doit exploirer at cnrotanir ses insialliOii. selon les   Respeacr   EMDH a cngagd environ 10% de SLS d6penses pour
mdthodas appropriees                                                I ' enLretien de ses installations
P 3.03   rDH dolt assurer ses bitrs                             Non rcspecr  Le conitri d'assurance a let discontinu6 en fiison
des couts 6Ieves r6cIam4s. EDH assure eica-mrne ses
biens
-p 3.04   Controle du barrage et de ses strucwres cWrTepondanics    RePecc;   Coirdlo ii par la Societi Coyne et Beliar
assure par des expcrts unr fois pat an
P3.06    Edh daft ramanur Its panes ttl=es A 50%  n 9W 6, 424? Non rcspeet6  Lea Suppor  anon us des autorit6sju ciaires, pur le
en 1997. 35/ en 1998 ct par la suite                              truliement dos ca5 de fraades ont 416 insuffisants. De
plus, EDH n's pa pu tnaintenir utn stock minitnum
regulier de mat6tiel de brnmchemcrts
P 4,01    PrEparation dos cinaticrs at de rprd'audit   Respectd    Les at  linanclcrs pour l'excic ?7-93 sont Pirvus
dans les 5 mois suivrnx la date de cldture de chaquc   avec retard   pour Juin 1998
oxeraice  (avaiti 1e  i    Mats)                                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
p4.02    La tauxc de rent3bllji de EDkI le doLt pas aftrte amains Non rcgpect6   oulairrletd ( I 5%F)-La quantiae d'6nergie
dc 0.5% en 1996. 1.5% on J997. 4% en 1998 et par la                 produftc est encore insuffsanie pour garmtir les
suite                                                               d6panses de fonctionnent et d'exploitazion d'une part
et de I'autre permeuue dc sLabiliser Ih balance
financiare,, DC plus le moniant dc la dete a *ti
rcU6valu6  cn  fonction  du  coOt de  la  devise.
conlmirement aul montant des actirs qu i eux-m6mes
n ont pas die rttvaluds. Un tel proccssus sous-eniend
un cadre juridique approprit,
P7 ,0    La revenu nct do EDil doit &c d'au m03        15%  son  Non rcspacl  Aotucllament II cst dc 7
service de ia dettc
P 44    A mons quil n'cn soti couivenu aucemont ava  lIpDA           epc      Deux contrals fircnt sigies poiir l'ac0     dnergei.
EDH ne dolt pas ctfcctuer des d4pcnscs d'-quipement panicallomnl I'un cn 1997 avec liitcrselect pour UIK puissance de
d'un montant supdricur de plus dc 1%   la valour acluelle          12 MW. I'auure avec West Indies Power en 1996 pour
nette de sos immobilisslions en exploilatiow ni conclure            30  MW, Ces deux  cokirats ne furent jamnais
d'Accord d'Achat d'4ncrgie Electrique poti plus de 10               op6ratiorincls
MW do capacile ou de Gwh /an
- P 4.06    L E DII doit r4tvaluer annutclement ses iinmobilisations  Non respciCI  CeCte op6raiion iFplique ant dcision administraiive
en exploitation                                                     ci juridique utis complexe & obtenir puisquelle
modi flera It bilan financier de 1'entreprise
(vii)  EXPLOITATION ,ES RE;SULTATS
Production
La centrale de Varreux 11 (21 MW) mise en service depuis dejA un an fonctionne jusqtx'i date
au mazout (40%) et au gasoil (60%), avec une puissance de 18 MW c-a-d 85% de la puissance
maximale installee. Celle du 10.8 MW installee A Carrefour fonctionne depuis Avril 1999 avec
une puissance disponible de 10 MW. Les dispositions financi6res et administratives sont prises
pour 1'exploitation de ces unitds pendant les deux prochaines annees.
Les resultats de l'etude du choix du site de la nouvelle centrale sont utilises dans
l'etabLissement du plan d'equipement en vue de prochaines demarches de tinancement.
13



JUL 27 '99  04:48PM WORLD BANK HAITI.
Reduction des pertes
Les interventions effectuies dans les zones pilotes I et 11 ont permis de generaliser certains
r6sultais obtenus dans le cadre de ces activites, a savoir -
1. Avec un programme soutenu de rxalisation, dans un delai raisonnable, des nouveaux
branchements, la population fait davantage confiance au service offert par l'EDH plut6t que
d'utiliser des entit6s paraileles parasites
2. A la fin des interventions dans la zone I, le rapport des energies mesurees comparees a
1'energie foumie a occasionne une reduction des pertes de 16%. Cette diminution n'a pas dure
longtemps, les dispositifs de suivi et de controle etant insuffisants. Neanmoins, les experiences
efTectuees ont permnis d'evaluer le niveau de mobilisation qu'il faut engager pour mener de
pareilles activites. Ainsi, de nouvelles actions sont prograrnmees actuellement qui ne
n6cessitent pas de grandes mobilisations de ressources humaines
Environnement
L'environnement a la Centrale de Varreuix a ete grandement am6liord avec l'installation sur le
site d'un puisard muni d'un tambour cbdophile pour retenir les effluents qui dans le temps
allaient directement dans les canaux a ciel ouvert traversant la zone de Cite Soleil. Du cbte de
Carrefour, la recuperation a ete aussi -im6lior6e, le littoral no re,oit plus de deversements
directs de residus huileux provenant du trop plein des fosses de recuperation qui ont ete
rthabilites et agrandis- La niaintenance et 1'exploitation de ces installations sont assurees par
le personnel regulier des centrales en question. Un comit6 de suivi dvalue r6gulierement la
qualite des effluents ddverses apres filtrage.
2evision tarifaire
Un ajustement de 10 % est programme pour la fin de l'exercice. Le dossier est soumis aux
autorites de tutelle pour approbation.
Formation
Un plan de redaploiement du personnel est en application. Les embauches sont gelees. Le
service de formation a etc restructurd en departement de formation de mani&re a renforcer
cette action.
(viii) OPERATIONS FUTURES
Production
Toutes les piees de rechange et d'entretiens preventifs sont budg6tees. Certaines sont deja
commandees. Un programme de formation est planifie pour l'ensemble du personnel des
centres de production.
Reduction des pertes
Plusieurs actions sont en cours actuellement pour maintenir la mobilisation amorcde dans le
programme de reduction des pertes.
(ix)  LECONS APPRISES
14



Les exp6riences acquises tout au cours de la rialisation et de l'exploitation des
installations electriques sont nombreuses et complexes. L'entreprise a du faire face a
des situations contraignantes et difficiles en raison de conjonctures socio-politiques, et
ces situations ont eu des incidences et sur les d6lais de realisation des composantes et
sur I'atteinte des indicateurs.
a) Bien que les pr6cautions majeures aient ete prises au niveau du contrat d'installation du
groupe de 10 MW suite aux experiences enregistes au niveau de la construction de la
centrale de 21 MW, des retards firent malgrd tout enregisris et firent l'objet
d'applications de penalites.
b) La conception d'un projer de financement ne devrait pas seulement prendre en compte
les obligations du principal baillcur de fonds sur un secteur. Elle devrait aussi integrer
l'impact des engagements des autres bailleurs qui participent sur le secteur dans la
m8me periode
c) Les conditions du Credit n'ont pas permis de prevoir un espace pour r6ajuster
l'enveloppe budgetairc allou6e
d) L'ajustement du tarif suivant les recommandations de la Banque n'a pas donne les
r6sultats escomptes. Cette disposition a entraine en 1997 des attitudes negatives de la
part des clients qui avaient deja des griefs contre la quaiite des services offerts par
l'entreprise et de certains parlementaires qui en ont profite pour essayer de faire du
capital politique.
e) L'instabilit6 socio-politique affebre considerablement les resultats comnierciaux et
financiers malgre les etTorts de redressement consentis
f) Des resultats durables dans le commercial ne s'acquirent qu'aprds des periodes
continues de corrections des faiblesses de gestion. La qualite des. services des
domaines tels la production et le reseau influence 6nornmment les r6sultats des
programmnes commerciaux et de gestion
PARTIE Il: TABLEAUX RESUMES
(i)    Sommaire des investissements
(ii)    Cofinancement
(iii)   Ech6ancier des projets
(iv)   Dcaissements de la Banque: Cumulatif estime et reel
(v)   Indicareurs pour la mise en ceuvre du Projet
(vi)  Indicateurs pour 1'exploitation du Projet
(vii)   Etudes r6alis6es dans le cadre du Projet
(viii)  Coults du Projet
(iX)   Financement du Projet
(x)    Colats economiques et bendfices
(xi)   Indicateurs de performance
(xii)   Concordance avec le manuel de procedures d'exploitation
(xiii)  Ressources de la Banque personnel
(xiv)  Ressources de la Banque missions
15



ANNEXE (i)
SOMMAIRE DES INVESTISSEMENTS
DESCRIPTION DE LA                    MONTANT             MONTANT   MONTANT TOTAL
COMPOSANTE                   FINANCE PAR IDA   FINANCE EN                     DE
(USD) + AUTRES    CONTREPARTIE  L'INVESTISSEMENT
BAILLEURS            PAR EDH
Equivalent en $
USD
Construction de la centrale de 21         IDA
MW; 15 MW (isanc4 par IDA, 6 MW    Cout de li centale:           EDH
fianca par ACDI               USD 15 658 252
f             USD 1 240 000       USD 21 281 021
Cou(t assistance
technique + supervision
OISD 152000
+
ACDI
CAN 5 500 000
Installation d'une uniti de 10 MW _        IDA                  IDH
Carrefour                  FRF 33 930 000       USD 1 200 000        USD 7 378 000
+
Coft assistance
technique +supervision
USD 523 494
Etude de site pour la nouvelle centrale     IDA
thermique                   USD 329 900          USD1 100 000        1USD 429 900
R6duction des pertes                IDA                  EDH
USD 2 000 000        USD 150 000         USD 3 310 000
BID
USD 500 000
AFD
[.SD 660 000
R6vision de l*ttide tanfaire            IAD
I_________________________              .USD 100 000          USD 20 000           USD 120 000
Formation                       IDAH
USD 187 345         USD 1000 000         UStD 287 345
Renforcement institutionnel             IDA                 EDH
USD 830 000          USD 50 000         USD13 331 675
AF      ,
FRF 60 000 000
+ACDI
.___ __ __ __ __ __ __ _ _   CAN   2  451   675         .
16



ANNEXE (ii)
COFINANCEMENT
Le 56' Projet Energie n'a pas ete engage avec d'autres  financements, J part la
contribution de EDH qui a ete fixee a 15 % pour les depenses locales. Nanmnoins, la
composante de la centrale de 15 MW a beneficie d'un cofinancement pour I'ajout de 6
MW additionnels.
Le tableau suivant resume les montants de ces cofinancements:
DESCRIPTION DE LA    COFINANCEMENT                             REMARQUES
COMPOSANTE
Centrale de Varreux 15 /21               A                 Ce cofinancement concerne les 6
MW                                  $CAN 5 500 000         MW additionnels
EDH
CONTREPARTIE
IJSD 1 240 000
Installation unitd 10 MW  a              EDH               La banque mondiale n'a pas
Carrefour                         CONTREPARTIE             paye un dernier paiement de
USD 1 200 000         USD 700000 A Picistick. La date
de cloture du Credit arrivait k
termes .EDH devra le prondre en
charge, malgr6 la lettre de cridit
quli etait approuvee par la banque
pour le paiement de ces travaux.
Reduction des pertes                     EDH
CGNTREPARTIE
USD 150 000
BID              Ces financements n '6taient pas
USD 500 000          convenus dans l'accord de Credit
de la Banque mondiale. Ils
AFD              concernent  des  programmes
USD 660 000          d'accompagnement.
17



ANNEXE (iii)
ECHEANCIER DES PROJETS
LES COMPOSANTES            1989   1990   1991   1995   1996   1997   1998    REMARQUES
,            ~~~~1994
TRIMESTRE I'     4    -I  BL g    I  2 i14 1             ,   I.I
Centrale 15/21 MW
Unit6 10 MW Carrefour
Etude de site
RMduction des pernes
R6vision tarifaire     ________ ___________
Imiplantation SAP R3
Formation
1m>E s^e r  _ _ _ _ _    _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ j _                  I 



ANNEXE (iv)
DECAISSEMENTS DE LA BANQUE
(VOIR TABLEAU SUR LES 3 PAGES SUIVANTES)
19



CONTRC)E BALANCE DES CATEGORIES
TR4             WN043          604467      2610   11.0mmi06   140000 10.0I9                              00                 1200200e m                              IW I600  I00           4oo9                                          B1EM0F1CMIR( 
C09AAI"     IAYrEOOL60   050I2   IPAYE   IB1LANCE   I  IA    II-H_  I                                 HAL     I-r   I64A9          2    1 BAL   1    2              aAt.      4        81. B     5LI  -A   I    AL    I
EN X074
I   FiF        6566           01117T)0 1  21410954.3   6444,73   10005345,               050060                 00000               130000   94W6473  e10540.17  ____   50                          441*00                   0             6491,
a   1)00        Wm00          6044706    AN40574,0   4110.40  IM502442  5301021420614 40.0                       0002    __          120000              003367.                50000                40000                   N        I46- C 21 PAW
4   U5           445           04D4    315001F45   67104,07   17700046,   0710V6  141040 1.4  _____ 0020                            129000      _-            c 1.              snow                46000                    0        64Q1-V265 21 PAW             (
S USD       WIM004,        5310413072   M1017100.    U22600.   14205948,4  W262300  10142407                  0000 ___    13000                        b0270000                          __       400                                4106   IM
0   095D       40262.         460?1A54   1412642.1   25006.20  13974994.1 SW I200,6  10I2712.2  _         _     000020    __        126400               500227,0   ____ 00                         40000    D__                      iior-msc 21 PAN
7   12      1 1W401.1      1146212.27  Imo24327.2  741122,03  123709270    73621 0 0A0002M02.21               005W 2      __      1200900              503267.5              sn0wo    *___        40                       0        140MIVMC 2104AWd             -T
a   USC       "204.           72311730    1761491.0   00235.10  1208045-6  60225.04  6.7027.72,                 00050       _       120000       -         33T.                20000                400000                   0        140-VUOC 21 4W
O   09002  70630,2    ~~74MAI4  1779377.11   021112.2   12527042.   52602.1  0W4220.021 _____    002    ____   120000                             500287.9              20000 ___            430000                  aI        HW0.VIEC 21 mw               c
10   MOt        71412.         3113.2    07771010.01   4A0wl                            SM308,  04.23,021 _____   Ca       ____  1230100    50 49          6451,620000                               402900                  0         C9OawI 71 MW
11 E000       W4343         011147,A1    177152023   211132,56   12441424,2           0024225,8   ___         0001      ___    120000   20672.50  465059,24                  20W400000   e__                                           DEC0ONTAO
02  USC        02544.24       124020.2   104601.70  415040.1   11012040.  070040,01  U044614,   _____ 0000                           l3o_ 2000           4000024                200000               400000                  0         1401-006021m                 Ex6
02   USC         203.3a       520401.701   Z2454M,11   22S540,    11805220.   22540.0   942!439,3  ____   6000  .__    120000                           .4M09,24                50004000                                      0     I H00.4540071M                  :2
4   500)  54324.00   ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23221.04  M27400,U   1000,44  1187024M,  042WN23,        B200WO              120001..1 4               3070   _   _ _ 500                    400                      0         A04011
161 020D        9464          00417.5    407016.t4  20700,2  1154540,1                 vz72,0   5452.5         00000               120000               44200253 02om00                             40000                   0         MW4Q1.V2  I 3MW
161 USD        61043.67       MUM790.2      14001A6  442015,32  113510464,  442270,2  7106201.5                  00000               120000              4032020,0              90(00                400320                   0        Hi04V10EC 2103 MW.
II20          05.7 U.SD           4     145i.'11     ZOW004,005  112210614,0  20009,0   YAGSWU,06.0            60P00                120000                2622,43              0579                 40200                   7        HNNmVOBC 21 MW
16l 005        211620,4       1110         JIM171M6.14  145904,25  11174M004  1dO469.50  7221267.41             WNW0    ___         120000               4053M.03               50W90                40000                   0        MWAB0-52031 MW
191 uso         547476        V41111,4    114A7712,    241100,20   1060242    241100.20  240C031.16            0O0m=                120000               40202.6               600D000               40W0                    0        6101400021mlW
20  0D61         2123          2402,2P.    12m43.34.2   1004514   10016524.3            3400021,1                00D00               120009    10044.4  4244.0,0                50300                40920                    0       OECCNAO  20lMW
21  USD         I 16104        16414,7    I44A1631,5    12604,0   506410,4              7400021.0                50000               nor__   10)30    1"204.0   42290692        00000                40000                    0           505   11044
22  U80C        7464.0         744012    "SUM03,2    5107.1    1009000.6                646002.1                14000W                  0_   5127,74   46197044  ____           3003                 4CO0                     0        A20CHEF 14020W
22  US))        0005           054006"    4441304,2  4152551.11   1174*5,g 052001,1   7021200.0                 1400000                 0                410770.44              201000 ___   4~00                             0-       H064165021 AOOV
24  USD         41115A1        911T14,1   14M900144   20512.4  6640620M01  SW50014  7027121.05                  14300W 00     __        0                406170,44  ___    200004002                                          0        NoI-012c 21 344V
OEM04         74070         450562    13440.4    277.57   00216402                    1521121,65              14000W                 0      33767,01  30000,67                200000               400023                  0         EI00004 0A010 f0W
20  0950        600010,6      4fntkv1   l2461140       41612,6   000402.62              7527121.55              1450.0  ____            0      40192,4   249003,27  ___    203000400                                          0           5056106605
2?  USD         561004        014052014    127147M64   60664X3  095029G,03  05M4,26 051,2                       1400000                 0                ""way342,2    ___    200000                 4OM0                     0        4CQ1.VIBEC21 066
26  0U49        sit-Ka        00970.1   lI3o424       WT25102    012610,20  __ _ 0056197,26                     100000                  0     20470.26  2110721,52  ____ 20W0                        4O000                    0        AOICIEJt 1 0AW
29   USC        400050          00006    Itanw312   221,5  443000,7.1                   000597,2                1400(0                  0      ___ 3007262  _            _      200000               40020  1722201,05 -7202M1,55   COMY E PTES'C194
20  OEM          tit44         717447    1201040410   020.91   6421"2000                4061gy,20               140000                  0      5223,411  36266.04___            200660               40006               -1220,55  DEVO6ONAOIOI,4W
SI  uSO        'I4026         415500.60   114661043 1446153I601  00650.21 4401561,0   011595.75                 1400000                 0                200360 A       __      20W00                404020             1.72M21,55   I1QPI.4152164W
32  USOD         14011         3077.72    1124000,450   1044,?   401005.0 I605004.72                            00000)                  0      1004,72  94421.1   ___    20W00                       405                 *.72121,515    D5EC0621 0W
52  FPiP        1149051       200L115.12   "131014.71 144605,2   19um172,0              60155,0                  4000  ____                   I4539135  05035,911  2____         W00   ____   40w00                      .1mai,5s           5EDF0
24  09m         600446         2016 _   1019000        0012;22   75120,023              alims0444,7             1490M0                  0      6272,2    02US,03  ____ 2000                          40000               -72221,0      ARC0HER 21 04W
30  uSC         a014          44000,     65043411.40   6200.45  7M041,5   ____ 6D105751400                                              0     02M4.451 00121,06_        _       220000               40900                r=01.90         ED24HENR1
20              MM 2700       601,14.79   1042054.411 I 0544,2   100067,02  1444*60407                          14I)0WIVO     _         0                 05w12.6  ___ 203                            06070,0                          PBSC    0.6
20 00          056037         1140442    430012000A  4042006   06A740400   00200 "20w.                          14400014     __         0     3           21140064 __      _ 230000                  409000              ,7DF ,RCE0.4001146
20  420         300043       1100504=  02M713171510   491602666  24574,5   1966390004nm7                        1000W0                  0                 27162,4 __ __         2000                 40960               -rAMI,1   HQ01-Mir0C21 96W
30  U260         36930       10067.A01    924354M04   2S204A4   0272264.1  ISI06    9605190.0                   t4060                   0                 I7M054___             200000               40000               -lMMI, 56   VAA4015CTR21 OW
Be   00W       21400.43       202601S  sm1000.020  46917,50   62524760  19617.607  30472170f6                   140000                  0                 2742.54___            200005               40000               -1592a4,5          ElHllA
29  USD           114         "A1464 101  00030.26   77,66049   028674,24               9007175.                140000                  0     72.6649   2770561   ____ 0000                          409000              -1221001006         60562                  -
SO  UPSC        6am           4670414  0000965.010  43401.059   063M     .151           S04276,97               14000W                  0     450600   -1052.27___              20000                40000               .729361.05    OEOOIN00MW
0I  SOD          49010        SM14,1441,  011,116ll   20101T27  u27955,750              50471ift,               149000                 3     20121,34   40,0? -4mQG             0A                  o0m0               1.722a65,5      0ECON 19126
25  US           66190       511220646    1040011   IM4AM00   62064761  14446,56   50227600.9                    140000                 0                .4001,4   ___          20000                400075926.5                       CANFOZ I OCUPT
40  USO         lam40           21400    176100211   17614-59   0051620.                  =5432091  ____ 140000    ___                         78104,09  .1224120.   ___        200000                4- 722261.01    EoP rtolLS
-                                                                           -           -          -                   -~~~~~~~~~-    --F12,                       I a                 -A-
j4  01           0.6          46        IM1101 514.0IJW   60792192.                 *469564123 134.00260       WU 126285I .1201                                      -                    -      j 40000               .72216 51,       ARrARmAI



140  0180         45100         4v102      121143.1    uw444   Tff1 8424110             40064.2  28440,714  1400020                    0                 137p2000400                                                      1ll5             78r
40 -USC          0400    100             1.00040,00   12413,007  0877035.2              41000842   i1301207  135210                    0                 12873j6               20000      ___    4.4000                 .732220.55          CI1.E.
40   USD         000            420)      042410.01   12111.00   11874703,7             4000304.23  wf7,010   1203w2                    2                .122072.0              200000                30400              .72221.18         18 YL,O0I0
40  0160         31700          11300     0044110.101  2177010547$40072*1                40541l4.Z1 27M740.    1222340                  0                 .122ey3,0  ____    000           ___       40000               T722201,662        MAZD0A
40   0210         1110          1100      6440141,11   1200.1141  SRA%S3.70              406k%40421  ____    32264   ___                01    1314.1241  -124130.0               20000     ___       4011100              722201,0         OAOA8O
41  USD         00011,0       V1001,0   8014410.11  20714.8   67"211,03 2070411,0  4001022.57  ____ 132204.4                            a                 .12401.   ____         420o   2  _____   12122                  -122201,1    Ho-ec 210w4W
42  U11D       200120.60      A003.6M      10670    208,114.21  544930.72  288114.21  4373"0018                  0322644                0                -124102,01 _____ 200                        40MIr                .72228,16         CAH1E22
43   FRt!      4161111.0        0444,0    H141210111   61 778,04  M2761010  SIT",0  14321720,02                 121220414               0                 -174181,              3030       -         400000               -722M1.3    PIELOSTICKOOMW
44  VW0          10130        300.0.161   7000212.32  21100722  0270713.44             14321722)02  21103.331 14014410 I0                                 -1241UP.               200000              400000             1-123181.          MM0.4SUN1
V4 1D         1511100      100224004    10011%,0    S1172A22  530404362              1432072011   117I2*0   128000                   0                 -124100,8              20D000               40000               -733201.0          COGI02
44   0)00       I0*00.1       00010.20    76toEl.4012  410027,503  3310116.02            4321700,Sz 40WJ0278    1240040                 0                 -124609(2000                               40001006            .3222811,6         UlCOo
44  0100         4100         41Y4,4632   20102012,211   2006157  s320021.70            4321720.012  M0om5 130                          0                -14000_____             000  _____           00000              -722)10.          00.30
44  U118          474         074,310108  T1 0U.11,I1   001A3820   53M161741             4321720,02  306,0208   0233*42                 0                 -124003,0)            200000                44000               .72220.05    UTLIE OEURCOO.
44  USC        11Y44101       11701.016  122204112  2707001  0033020,6  278701    4042021,0-   ___    1220,44$                          0                 -124I02.9             2C0001               40000                .72226,55         CAOIEZ2
44   FR8         0000         10102,000   12211.1if  10074.080  002214.52  1087.02a 41DR140,001  ____ 1230442                           0                  124102.1   ___        200231  _____       0 W                  -7201,65S           051E
44   uSC   1*0*2      20~~~~3400.016I  A16071.7,44  16372,1132 M?2   400720122144)1   i__                 236443                0      26572,112  .14005       __        201=1~   __          40000               -72228025   AOI6AIAOHEICO
44               l0oom        073113      11COM110,   04041.40   0302712.2              49022146.01    ___    130443                   2      504340.49  .20*tpd.6 ___      _23000                  *Dow_ 000           -7272281.0      00f$C0000*
44  1150        s14ow         i10107,1   401003.1.   010a0.02   10362312                032044.01               122443                 0                -330100.6  01000.3   1101306                40000      ___   -722201.14          OIECCOTAI
40   FRF       11110100,1     w1101,04   16105111.11  2220012.   2820183,6  2220102.0  100200222                 222043                 (I               -201614 1__1101120,6 8io                     400000              -0122200,5!   42618TICK IOMW
48   70      6106021        140141,13   314"2113    11131017    MIMI0,0   111360,7  1404862.2,2               12304,43               0                 .20011,0  _____    110124.                  440000              .7M0,60   PIELSYICK IOAMW
47   00F       401000.2       1612183    214400M    7684,    24041481.22  TZSH05416 15187774                     1220443                0-20010,6  f____    1010.                                    400061               .1222281.    P183L51K 100A2W
46   FR!        000672,        0000.    300010021  I  167S442  2320262.   0670.62  S1000087.12                  1230442                0                .206010,6 _____    1113.8                   440000o             -722201.1.6   gO.LS1lCP(10 MW
40   2          327410        0014,10    53W341.13   84777.1   2202,424,0   t.3/73,    %4VI10.A7                 12.38443               a                 284,.  ____     110036.1                   400000              -722200,5119 EISIIK 10 WI
so  FRF        I 00940,       1014311.0   3210100.2   1423.111  2121801,717  14M302.0*  1200396,20               1230443                0                 220110,2.   ___    11013121                400200               11.16    PIEOSIIK ID0MV
0?.  70tF      10070.1       171000.73    W1.0*000  208107,03  1013U34.24  20014742  10022000                   1231443                0                -2001000,6   ___    011206                  40000               .7322281.63   P.EUSTICI(IOM.W
52  USC        0101431       1014,015"   2010411.22   10K010)    103233)34  BOW100)01  10012129.06             1234043                 0                -200100,0             110120.0              40000               .722201.03        CANEZ22
33  kmC         0,40.0`2       non,0    2024100.44  0440,32,11  16211100.7  0480122   10020011,34   1__          238443                 0                -200600,6              11011341             40001               .r22201,03      SAOATRANS
02   HIF        21002          W%3013,0    210100-.41  61074.100   1765701.61 00074,00?  84,23"0,02              4238443       0        a.20000                       110          120,6aso'         40000               -722201,60           E01E
82   000S       2001.1         30113      20434.00   2i87.4733  17021104,24  217,4733- 9403.00,0 __              1220443                0                .200100.5              118130,1             402001I            1.72=1S1           BRH1.A
12  UsD1         7mu            1040      2121400.1   0412,1810  I71401,68               140692000    ___       1238443                 0     ss2202161    2i14810.3           ilsi__ 31810,    ___  40000              1-233281.5          DAN4IEL
St  110D         Iwo1           11010     211l004.10   1001.028  174731.01               040000.004             123044                  0     10081,01  .3303013   __           110130,5  4___        00003              -733281.63   AJ3RAMONENo04
82   110       l0100.10       1100.1     C201101   11171a,07  103008.36                  04084.0   1101710,0   1124725                  0                .2MI2012               118130.3   ___       40000               .722201,206        1)10E3
02   USC       .17640.01      400168ft1   26110405   -"27772,0  14343434                 840300,8    ___         1124122               a)                -22121.   ___          11811200    _         400000   -217700.0  .444500.7?   C08P700SPECIAL
05   FRF        67270.41       "1.111     230010,014.    511110,61   100342.0   43481.   824007.16               1124723                0                .21630.2               118130.              4000                 440,2    111C101
04   rFR       51040.01       101241,11   2011131.21   70004.0    1630104,   7700010   813151,32                 0024720                0                 -22231042             I 8132,               4~0=                .44430873   0'iE0.S11C  10301
00, 0)61        7020.0       215400,401ft  20111244,116, 84404.607    1701102            062131,6                112472*                0     540400   .27410.0  _        _     1T103,0              40023               .444000,77    DECOONAOEI-10
St  1100         6003        400C21.104   3210304,31   2040,002  1763200w.2              0032161.    ____    1124726                    0     2045,602  400100*                 110130.4             4000                 -4446000,77    EICOO0AWI-00
06  USC        11111I          "0,3    112120u.18   8088.00   100280,74  500004.80   100411,723                1124123                 0                -3018,0   ___    0111130,5                -4D0W    _____ "445A077                 CAM 62
so  1100        400    111113% li        721,010010   11001,4  2203208.34  11021A   771314.233                 ii__  12473             a                .200181,   _____ 010206  __                 48000               .44430771 K431-VIBC21 N0W
00   1)31       4711.01       0721400    0134101,01   3404,3220  100380.81  34014,31201 075720,05                012412                aI                .200181,0              110020.              0000                -44040,77          00141-A
*0  O383        312106.3       104.16    72T412,04   ea090601, 001423031                 S7372,005  040,0.01143000                      a                                       I200,    __   11820  40000                -444040,77         6282
08 USC        4100.5         4142,1   160210,400  2900f*07  1502430.41                 07370,0   2600.000   110800                   0                 .00.01101312,0                              400000              -444000.7         LUT0030
08  USC          2130           2008     116140641   187.104  44202              -        71721.0*   IM1701011  1114505                 0                .3004100              4181304               40400                4404177          C00G112
so6m             tow 272       300       2111101331  26004172    1332100.5               07372,0.08   __ _ 0146000                      6     21000.122  .32M44    I__           S1100,6  ___        40000               .4445M1,77   AGROAO&OftIco
a0  U732 1D                 0700   no      00400.00   on1,0264  122822.4                 wwzv6772.4gs    _       1104000                0     02-3000   43!!!!,0                I1010.0    __         400000              -4446%1,77        DANIEL8
00   000         4060           4092     113421040.0,  2001,1.01   1407401,06            87372.80   __           111400   ___           0      2004.00   484374,0  _      _     1000312.1_ __   40000                     .444300,7     DE00N AVEI 80
08  100         3204 1.1       11741.6   242011.410"  330120   1473874.28                07*2902___              1101450   __           0     21076.51  43070 A,               01`18i3,6              400000              .440900.7    1360011AVEI I
500   11          0             .o3      31220020     3WI3,00   14076WI,5  ___            111T21800             il'10421    __          0                -278 =4          I 500   02127.0            40000                .44460041T7     OOECEIAI
38   1130      .1011541341    .221241.34  20111134 .20 243300,68  1004200.87             01373100                11014101   a__                           .3703.  ___    0            a   ___         4000   .242300.1  -2014201,71   COMPIOESCO6I.
S7  U11D         2000           100      2114100,0 204.80204,1   007001,00               073730.01   ___         0414404                a      2074.011  -206087   _______  0.020,4, ______ 400040N2.0                                       2140
41  UjSC         0104           374      72M1.10   2802.421   1010434.64  28021,42290  0714)028,02               1$14008                41                 4003076,56                                 4010001            1-20112S,?t  1101.'JIEC2I 001
17  401000.4     20044                                                 Pe,4 1130.0  2,01 17102    3247   87030030  114100                0                 .28006107 7 ,07                            40022              1-01124711_               RRWA,
B.i lE W.IIE   Pon^13    104M040640 i 1422.24  116100.100001ww20  l4233,32411 W7! 1                                             0.?               -3m                  1127;n                                     -21200213 If24



or  usD        11177)4A      I1I1T  1  260?"W'"2  709018,1  15820U.1                    MOOMI  79t010.t0    191S02QI                0                 -187                 a 20r2 x             480                -20t2M.71          titF
_    Frn      010A44484      too 080.#1  1138ne42   ea4126,0 li    870,92  O4 120,05  -2332n.77              10202t                 a0                4805                 e20r1,w5             400                 -201127t1   PIE"S,K 10MW
0               02 VMS D       2UM       M 1         10510.8     688,0S               -2424.1                 1020311               0                 -"ml   t1s81okz  H8wsA?            -     40  0               -201 128.71      NCCETrAI
*0  USD         82             gum      1411A211?   8738M   8   11000.141              -23u2j7       t       102031W                0  o727r,608  -44783WI                 Qz"5,47              401 :               -211t12d,71    DEC 0N IO0 MW
ca.             ONO            BMW      141921r.039 _.      B  73,sa  40_              -23=4,?11             1(0a1t=                a    0 0a.e   H04010,             6_ Q25so47                                   -_ _ 201128.71    DECONAVES-0
to  USD         "T 2_0                   Itr21_ _130_ _  __  7__                                              D                           21300*8  -2St12                 07188l4o                 4 00             -Mt20  71 2    EOOAVE2 10
at  usao        lam            SiMS     12aTIM.Ol    820s01      724302    80 i   4315531                    17311          J                                      o4AS,_   028.4               410x               -207128.71   Irc., h21MW
Bt  uSD         *i11.          0810      12  i031    138.120  0814 7                   -31531.3a             1028111               0e      st3s      *s52"8s3              e2iai,4M             400               1-20110         00 NO 88MW
82  UJ           10150         urJr7    13snA3    11a,          344451.                -35881.30            1t0t1                   0    107t0P10   4W701                  02858047             I80080        .     2a1Q071    DOCONAWI4O
03  USD       ISOMMI          110174.31   1r43,2   8H00mo   328I42.49                  431,51   1100MP  100.                        0                4 M;2        r        42GK47              4?_                  -m 1124.71        UTU7O
a4  USi         274,52        IY4,52                 20I 18112   88740877  23,8034  -2173l3,2D               9088S                  a               4 115767.2            e2400M .4_g 2171                                           BIHA
84  001E      1n4  .4         470r2.2   IO1W     l   WM1485  4Ge.084                  -11U33,233  34371.481  BS44t11                0                  8707*K 82 41                         I  4                   -2011387T1        Krm
84  USD0         81.8          lien0    1027,0?1    81529,411   41883081               3171t;0               074423.8               e      0820,411  414288.4  _           t tA7                4C) 8 7-201128,t7                     DANIEL
84  USD        1340o D          211     0d8.017,1   3t002.,41 481X2a.,                -3173.235              17440e                 0     30=041  452889,,                820841                4                  -200287 t        EFrLS
VW 4L  M.0                     03100 uto   47U       24.705  4487248.041              .311_321               07420.8      _                          -888834,5t     *_ 5047                  1 420wa        _       201720,7        ts0  SOUS
_4  US1        614400          88               8   870t)2   410OM     -2              -3173.         -        448.8      _          a                4M314&2,  __ _             )                                 -20123,        O08     0MWV
94  USD       n8014            E7       81.0          8,8   sw210k8                   .573    0                 2.0                       IUtrola ps  .110 8e8_          82341                 4800                 928.71    000084 0013.38
84  Uf9D         'Ii           31tg 00D    240  142232   37047,m4              -       31133,232 3744z38                            o      543212    7 3            _         41        _                    080,4  -7 J32    ACRAMOHB4CO
-u
I-.
1,1



ANNEXE (v)
INDICATEURS POUR LA MISE EN (EUVRE DU PROJET
PARAMETRES, DE                1996        1997        1998         1999
SUIVI                 (P)   R)   (P)  ( R)   (P)  (R)   (P)  (R)
Clients/employes         -      7 7     F   78   15    8       >5    SS
Taux des pertes      5U/          637  42%  3s 6    35%   5  : 435%  55%
Retour sur investissements            4   1.5%  -1  1 6W  *4 Y /T l4
Ratio service dette/revenu net   - ".1.5    -    <.S                <1..5    7
Nombre d'heures d'alimentation  lMiniS -    Mini8          Is 18 IS  -i i   15-18
Taux de recouvrement              80       " >100%  9IU       9S    Si -
(P): PRVU (R) :REEL
ANNEXE (vi)
INDICATEURS POUR l.'EXPLOITATION DU PROJET
PARAMETRES DE                   1999       2000       2 01
SUIVI
Clients/empJoyes            _ _0       __4
Taux des pertes            _ 45                 _
Retour sur investissements   _
Ratio servc dette/rev;nu net     _____                             ____
Nombre d'heures d'alimentation       Mi 18      Mi 1_
Taux de recouvrement             >10oe/    >100%OR
20



ANNEXE (vii)
ETUDES REALISEES DANS LE CADRE DU PROJET
Les etudes suivantes ont et6 r6alisdes dans le cadre du Projet:
1)    Etude de site pour une nouvelle centrale thermique Diesel de 120 MW dont une
premiere tranche de 60 MW
2)    Etude tarifaire
21



A1NNEXE (viii)
COUTS DU PROJET
Les d6penses suivantes ont ete effectuees dans le cadre du Proj et:
DESCRIPTION DE LA                   MONTANT              MONTANT   MONTANT TOTAL
COMPOSANTE                  FINANCE PAR IDA   FINANCE EN                      DE
(USD) + AUTRES    CONTREPARTIE  L'INVESTISSEMENT
BAILLEURS            PAR EDH
Equivalent en S
_USD
Construction de la centrale de 21        IDA                  EDH
MW: 15 MW finauc6 par IDA, 6 MW    Cout de la centrale:
financE par ACDI              USD 15 658 252
+             USD 1 240 000       USD,21 281 021
Coat assistance
technique + supervision
USD 152000
ACDI
.____ ____ ____ _____ ____ _ _   _ CAN   5  500  000
Installation d'une unit6 de 10 MW h        IDA                 EDH
Carrefour                 FR? 33 930 000       USD 1 200 000        USD 7 378 000
+
Cott assistance
technique +supervision
USD 523 494
Elude de site pour la nouvelle centrale     IDA                 EDH
thermique                   USD 329 900         USD 100 000          USD 429 900
Reduction des pertes                IDA                 EDH
USD 2 000 000        USP 500 000         USD 3 310 000
DID
USD 500 000
AFD
USD 660 000
Revision de l'dtude tanfaire           IDA                 EDH
_________ __ _  USD 100 000      USD 20 000          USD 120 000
Formation                       IDA                 EDH
USD 187 345         USD 100 000          USD 387 345
Renforcement institutionnel            IDA                 EDH
USD 830 000         USD 50 000         USD 13 331 675
AFD
FRE 60 000 000
+
ACDI
CAN 2 451 675     _
22



ANNEXE (ix)
FINANCEMENT DU PROJET
Le 5eme Projet ENERGIE a e  finance par la Banque mondiale au montant de DTS
18600000, c-a-d 1'6quivalent de USD 26 000 000 (ref taux 1998). Aucun autre cofinancement
n'a Wt6 associe contractuelleinent a ct Projet, A part la contrepartie de EDlI qui etait
officiellement fixee & 15% des depenses locales, et la mise a disposition de ressources
froncieres ou d'infrastructures existantes. Le gouvernement Canadien a octroy6 un don au
Gouvemement haftien d'un montant de CAN 5 500 000 pour la foumiture de 6 MW
additionnels dans la composante du IS MW finance par IDA.
ANNEXE (x)
COUTS ECONOMIQUES ET BENEFICES
L'augmentation de la capacite de production de 31 MW additionnels a perrnis:
i) d'augmenter la quantite d'energie electrique fournie a la cIient6le industrielle qui de ce fait
r6duit ses d6penses en autogeneration qui sont de l'ordre de 2.5 . 3 fois le cotit unitaire de
production de EDH
2) de r6duire les couts d'improductivi-t de EDH
3) d'augmenter le nombre d'heures de fonctionnement des ecoles du soir
4) d'augmenter le chiffrc d'affaires des comrnmerces de nuit
5) de reduire la tension d'inscurit6 pendant la nuit
23



ANNEXE (xi)
INDICATEURS DE PERFORMANCE
Le tableau suivant decrit les indicateurs de performance qui avaient te fixes au deblocage du
Cr6dit en 1996- Les valeurs de 1989 etaient plus elevees, elles ont ete r6duites pour tenir
compte de la situation post-embargo.
INDICATEURS             MIS       =      1997             1998             199
VALEUR   VALE!U-R   VALEUR -VAMVrt  VALEUR   VALEUR   VALEUR    A
A     O6TENUE    A     OBTENUE    A     OBTENUE    A      OBIENUE
OsTENIR  ,       OBTENIR         08TENIM          OBTENIR
CLIENTS I        Mill
EMPLOYES         75%      72%     80%      78%      85%      BPh     >85%     S5%
TAUX DES PERTES    Max
_  50%     56%     42%      56%     35%      55f%   < 35%
RETOURSUR         Sin_
INVESTISSEMENTS    0.5h      (4%/6)    1.5%    (9.66%)    4%    (%)      >4%    (15%)
ANNEXE (xii)
CONCORDANCE AVEC LE MANUEL DE PROCEDURES D'EXPLOITATION
Les diverses r6alisations effectuees dans le cadre de ce financement sont toutes conques selon
les normes en vigueur a Electricit6 d' Haiti. De plus, leur exploitation rentre dans la pratique
habituelle de fonctionnement des divers intervenants et ne necessite aucune modification
majeure de structures ou de proc6dures.
24



ANNEXE (xii)
RESSOURCES DE LA BANQUE: PERSONNEL
Au cours de l'exdcution du Proj et, le personnel suivant de la Banque a participe au suivi et A la
gestion des activites:
*  Marcelo OSORIO        : charg6 de Projet
*  Philippe DURAND       : charge de Projet
* Jorge GORR:IO
  Max PULGAR-VIDAL  : Chef division de credit
*  Varella               : Avocat
*  Clive Harris          : Economiste
  Mac GAYE GAYE         : Economiste
*  Martin Staab          : Evaluation des offres
*  Carolle Carr          : representant resident
*  Michael AZEFOR         representant resident
*  P. Gregory Fazzari     Expert
*  Gany Charlier         : Expert
ANNEXE  (xiii)
RESSOURCES DE LA BANQUE: MISSIONS
Au cours de l'ex6cution du Proj et, les nmissions suivantes furent executees:
*  Mission de suivi et d'dyaluation : Ces missions ont eu lieu 2 a 3 fois par an. Un ou deux
membres de la Banque composent g6n6ralement ces missions: le charge de Projet assist,
d'un technicien ou d'un economiste
a Visites de cournoisie: une visite du representant de la division decaissements, Ms Tua
Nguyen, pour evaluer le bilan des ddcaissements et des montants engag6s
*  Mission de formation: sdminaire de 1 semaine organist par 2 representants de la division
decaissements a l'Hlotel Christopher sur les operations de d6caissements
* Rencontres de mise au point organisees par le representant du bureau resident en HaYti:
deux rencontres, une au bureau resident, une autre au bureau de l'EDH
25



SA.                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~73'30'            73'00                                 72'30'Ti                       o rdcd' h  o  M~  n fTeW.{&n
a I 4s . 8s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tortue S6udre,ournrilafnrnouErnorao
-200'    AThANTIC                      OCEAN                   -e ITodle                               -         rontp,edqerton tihe toegl stoes of o, rrienso, ory
ATLANTIC  OCEAN                                                                                                                  -        ndooenotoroccopfoerc of5tch oendaories.
~~~~~~.  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~PORT-DEPAI 
CUBAX   <               D C)OMINiCAN
2 ) TC1J{C.                           L          I          C                    eon-Ra,qiZ                                    MAP-HAhN   
M86 St. Ni
(S>  ;  >.   t                    M6KF9.NiA   td  ,t   ,  Baksi~~~~~~~~~V.n-BIeu    -,                                             /lPstlE4
JAMIAICA                                                                                                                                                                   /
Caribbean Se a"-                                                                                                                          Limbe                           n                 9R9LIBERTE
-__________ _______ _   /Anse Rouge                                                         -
7X30)-                                                                                                                                                              f  >S   y"u  t '                 en. TDonfogn
HAITI                                                                                                                           Dondon                        ',
19>30           ,FIFTH POWER PROJECT                                                                                -              \                                  ,rmolodn                       ,!930
ELECTI'ICITE D'HAITI (EdH)                           '                                                     GONAI''-
o)      POWER PLANTS
TRANSMISSION LINES,
-        DAMS                                                                     'or,
-  *     CEMENT PLANT                                                                                                                   .  o   Mahssode CH    j                   K
-         ASPHALT ROADS                                                                                 St. Marc   -             <,  .Actiboc,n,te 
GRAVEL ROADS
I   9 0 0                                                                                                                           "'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~~~""'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~19,00 1
- 0---- --DIRT ROADS                                                    _                                                                                          oC-li-
o     SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                                                      PELIGRE,
(9    DEPARTMENT HEADQUARTERS                                                                                                  Lahapell               "c    ,Ioe '   0
     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                         Iand              c  n                                                                                       0
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                      Ponte a Roquel0e  ,e a Ge                                         d 
-'-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY                                                                                           Arcolsoe '> .     - '
6~~~~~~~ >Y*r           t'      
,   4yJmS,   ,--jsJEREMIE     Gayemite5  .-. os@   C/ a                                                                                    Croix des Mi'ons                                               Z
Isnlonds  j:.'                                                                                                                           nn,
Dome-M_.ie  Moronds '050S >             w         '-         __ /                                                                            PORT-AU-PRINCE              Crois uoks'  N
18'30'                                                                                                                                                                      P ion    G hr            "- '     toroho -   1 830'-
X 6/< CAY~~~~~~~~~~~~~ES  t--fite                                      Grad                    -              Vil            q< ,P> arisen  - A ( i
LToo,,          Grce-innclfi-
SAINT                        r"FodVerte
G- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I
Manic e,'t,                                                                                                 Mngt ----                               I       C'
0      1 0    20     30     40    50D' /( ~~ -Z-_.                                                                                                                , r-- ..  JC -----
I  I  I  I  I                                         h/~~~~~~~~~~~~ache
KILOMETERS                                                Iicd                                 C A R I B 3      E A C 5 E N    SEA
'o    74'30                               74;W 0        _.                      73'30'                                7300'                               72'30'                                7200D-
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



