Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2053 HA
                       (Fifth Power Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                        ELECTRICITE D'HAITI
                       Dated August 9, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2053 HA
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  August   9,   1989  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the  Association) and ELECTRICITE D'HAITI
(EdH).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Haiti (the Borrower) and the Associa-
tion, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million six
hundred thousand Special Drawing  Rights  (SDR 18,600,000), on the
terms  and  conditions  set   forth   in  the  Development  Credit
Agreement, but only on condition  that EdH agree to undertake such
obligations toward  the  Association  as  are  set  forth  in this
Agreement;
     (B)  by an agreement  (the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the  Borrower  and  EdH,  the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
made available to EdH  on  the  terms  and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS EdH, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. EdH declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and to  this  end,  shall  carry out the Project
with  due  diligence  and   efficiency   and  in  conformity  with
appropriate administrative,  financial, engineering, environmental
and public utility practices,  and  shall  provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. EdH shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04.  EdH  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, EdH shall not  take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) EdH shall,  at  the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the  Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the  Project,  the  performance  of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  EdH shall promptly inform  the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment  of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by EdH  of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (c)  Without limitation to  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b) of this
Section, EdH shall: (i) commencing in Fiscal Year 1990, furnish to
the Association as soon as  available,  but in any event not later
than 30 days after the  end  of each quarter, quarterly reports of
such scope and in such detail  as the Association shall request of
measures taken by EdH pursuant  to  Section 3.02 of this Agreement
and of the costs of such  measures; (ii) commencing in Fiscal Year
1989, furnish to the  Association  by  September 30 on each Fiscal
Year, a progress report on  the  implementation of the agreed plan
of action for Part C of the Project.
     Section 2.06. EdH shall, not later than December 31, 1989:
Page  3
     (a)  furnish  to   the   Association   a   plan   of  action,
satisfactory to  the  Association,  prepared  by consultants under
terms of reference and  having  experience and qualifications, all
satisfactory to the Association, for  the  purposes of Part A.4 of
the Project; and
     (b)  employ consultants under  terms  of reference and having
experience   and   qualifications,   all   satisfactory   to   the
Association, for the purposes of Part C of the Project.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of EdH
     Section 3.01. (a) EdH shall  carry on its operations and con-
duct its affairs in  accordance  with sound administrative, finan-
cial,  environmental  and  public   utility  practices  under  the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     (b)  Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section,  EdH  shall:  (i)  cause  the  positions  of General
Manager,  Deputy  General  Manager,  Technical  Director, Planning
Director, Administrative Director,  Commercial Director, Financial
Director and Internal Auditor to be filled at all times by persons
whose qualifications and experience  shall  be satisfactory to the
Borrower, the Association and EdH;  and (ii) not later than August
15 in each Fiscal Year, commencing in Fiscal Year 1989, furnish to
the Association for its  comments,  a  detailed plan of action for
recruitment or assignment of  its  staff  for the following Fiscal
Year which shall include,  inter  alia, a temporary restriction on
hiring of staff to professionals  and technicians; (iii) carry out
such plans of action  taking  into  account  the comments, if any,
made by the Association; and (iv) maintain ratios of customers per
staff not lower than: (A)  64:1  in  Fiscal Year 1989; (B) 72:1 in
Fiscal Year 1990; (C) 78:1 in Fiscal Year 1991; (D) 83:1 in Fiscal
Year 1992; (E) 88:1 in Fiscal  Year  1993; (F) 92:1 in Fiscal Year
1994; (G) 97:1 in Fiscal Year  1995;  and (H) 100:1 in Fiscal Year
1996 and thereafter.
     Section 3.02. EdH shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering, financial,
environmental and public utility practices.
     Section 3.03. EdH shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other  provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such  risks  and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section  3.04.  EdH  shall  take  all  action,  including the
installation and utilization  of  adequate instruments, to monitor
continuously its  dams,  reservoir  banks,  associated structures,
earthworks, penstocks  and  other  waterways,  and  its generating
plant structures and equipment, and shall cause such facilities to
be inspected, at least once  a  year, by qualified and experienced
experts in accordance  with  appropriate engineering practices, in
order to determine whether there are any deficiencies or potential
deficiencies in their condition, or  in the quality or adequacy of
maintenance or methods of  operation  of such facilities which may
endanger the  safety  of  any  of  such  facilities  or  the staff
maintaining or operating them.
     Section  3.05.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, EdH shall not  sell,  lease,  transfer, assign or otherwise
dispose of any of  its  rights,  property  or assets except in the
ordinary course of business.
     Section  3.06.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, EdH  shall:  (a)  (i)  reduce  its  total  losses of energy
produced in Port-au-Prince to  not  more  than:  (A) 25% in Fiscal
Page  4
Year 1990; (B) 20% in  Fiscal  Year  1991;  (C) 18% in Fiscal Year
1992; and (D) 16%  in  Fiscal  Year  1993 and thereafter; and (ii)
reduce its losses  of  energy  produced  in  the  provinces of the
Borrower to not  more  than:  (A)  18%  in  Fiscal  Year 1990; and
(B) 15% in Fiscal Year 1991 and thereafter; and
     (b)  take, in a timely  manner,  for  the above purposes, all
necessary measures (including legal  measures) satisfactory to the
Association.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  EdH  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial  condition including separate records
and accounts to reflect the  resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project.
     (b)  EdH shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  Fiscal  Year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than five months after
               the end of each such  year: (A) certified copies of
               its  financial  statements  for  such  year  as  so
               audited; and (B) the  report  of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, EdH shall  earn,  for  each  Fiscal  Year after Fiscal Year
1988, an annual return of not  less  than: (i) 3.5% in Fiscal Year
1989; (ii) 4.5% in Fiscal Year 1990; (iii) 5% in Fiscal Year 1991;
(iv) 5.5% in Fiscal Year 1992; (v) 6% in Fiscal Year 1993; (vi) 7%
in Fiscal  Year  1994;  and  (vii)  8%  in  Fiscal  Year  1995 and
thereafter of the average current  net value of EdH's fixed assets
in operation.
     (b)  On or before December 31 and June 30 in each Fiscal Year
commencing December 31, 1989, EdH shall, on the basis of forecasts
prepared  by  EdH  and  satisfactory  to  the  Association, review
whether it would meet the  requirements set forth in paragraph (a)
in respect of such  year  and  the  next following Fiscal Year and
shall furnish to the Association  the  results of such review upon
its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  EdH  would not meet the
requirements set  forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for  the Fiscal Years
covered by such  review,  EdH  shall  promptly  take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the struc-
ture or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return  shall  be calculated by dividing
               EdH's net operating income  for  the Fiscal Year in
               question by one-half of the  sum of the current net
               value of EdH's  fixed  assets  in  operation at the
Page  5
               beginning and at the end of that Fiscal Year.
         (ii)  The term "net operating income" means total operat-
               ing revenues less total operating expenses.
        (iii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses   related    to    operations,   including
               administration,  adequate  maintenance,  taxes  and
               payments  in  lieu  of  taxes,  and  provision  for
               depreciation  on   a   basis   acceptable   to  the
               Association,  but  excluding   interest  and  other
               charges on debt.
          (v)  The average  current  gross  value  of  EdH's fixed
               assets in operation shall be calculated as one-half
               of the sum of the gross value of EdH's fixed assets
               in operation at the beginning and at the end of the
               Fiscal  Year,  as  valued  from  time  to  time  in
               accordance with  sound  and consistently maintained
               methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
         (vi)  The term "current net  value  of EdH's fixed assets
               in operation" means the  gross value of EdH's fixed
               assets in operation less  the amount of accumulated
               depreciation,  as  valued  from  time  to  time  in
               accordance with  sound  and consistently maintained
               methods   of   valuation    satisfactory   to   the
               Association.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, EdH shall not incur  any  debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures  of  EdH shows that the estimated
net revenues of EdH for  each  Fiscal  Year during the term of the
debt to be incurred  shall  be  at  least  1.5 times the estimated
debt service requirements of EdH in  such  year on all debt of EdH
including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of EdH
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations  and  net  non-operating income;
                    and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including       administration,       adequate
                    maintenance, taxes  and  payments  in  lieu of
                    taxes,    but    excluding    provision    for
                    depreciation, other non-cash operating charges
                    and interest and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The term "net non-operating  income" means the dif-
               ference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
Page  6
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate  of  repayments  (including  sinking fund
               payments,  if  any)  of,  and  interest  and  other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a forecast
               prepared by  EdH  not  earlier  than  twelve months
               prior to the  incurrence  of  the debt in question,
               which  both  the  Association  and  EdH  accept  as
               reasonable and  as  to  which  the  Association has
               notified EdH of its acceptability, provided that no
               event has  occurred  since  such notification which
               has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to
               have, a material  adverse  effect  on the financial
               condition or future operating results of EdH.
        (vii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree and until the Project  has been completed, EdH shall neither
commit itself to nor  make  any capital expenditures (not required
for the Project) which would  exceed  by  more than 1% the current
net  value  of  EdH's   fixed   assets  in  operation  unless  the
Association has been furnished  with evidence, satisfactory to the
Association, that the  proposed  expenditures are economically and
technically justified and EdH  has  obtained financing under terms
and conditions which will not  materially and adversely affect its
financial condition or operations,  including  the carrying out of
the Project.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the term  "capital  expenditures"  has  the meaning
               assigned to it  in  Section  4.05  (b)  (i) of this
               Agreement; and
         (ii)  the term "current net  value  of EdH's fixed assets
               in operation" has  the  meaning  assigned  to it in
               Section 4.02 (d) (vi) of this Agreement.
     Section 4.05. (a) EdH  shall  not  use  its resources for any
purpose other than to pay  the  costs of its capital expenditures,
total operating expenses and debt service requirements.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The   term   "capital   expenditures"   means   all
               expenditures incurred  on  account  of fixed assets
               including interest charged to construction, related
               to operations.
         (ii)  The  term  "debt   service  requirements"  has  the
               meaning assigned to it  in  Section 4.03 (b) (v) of
               this Agreement.
        (iii)  The term "total operating expenses" has the meaning
               assigned to it  in  Section  4.02  (d) (iv) of this
               Agreement.
Page  7
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or in the absence of  such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section  4.06.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, EdH shall:
     (a)  annually value its  fixed  assets  in  operation to such
extent as shall be necessary to reflect adequately, at the time of
such valuation, the current  value  thereof,  in accordance with a
sound and consistently applied  method  of valuation acceptable to
the Association; and
     (b)  register, annually, the results of such valuation on its
books.
     Section  4.07.  The  Prior  Agreement  is  hereby  amended by
deleting its Sections 3.06, 4.03, 4.05 and 4.06 and replacing them
by Sections 3.06, 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of EdH  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms  before  the  date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the  Association  shall promptly notify  EdH
of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or telefax to  the  party  to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
Page  8
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For EdH:
          Electricite d'Haiti
          Boite Postale 1753
          Port-au-Prince
          Haiti
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                ELECDHA                        3490113
                Port-au-Prince
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of EdH,  or  by  EdH on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by the General Manager of EdH  or  such other person or persons as
such General Manager  shall  designate  in  writing, and EdH shall
furnish to the  Association  sufficient  evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                  Latin American and the Caribbean
                    ELECTRICITE D'HAITI
                    By /s/ Leonce Thelusma
                                        Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Goods and works shall be  procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with  procedures  consistent  with  those  set forth in
Sections I and II  of  the  "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits"  published  by  the  Bank  in May 1985 (the
Page  9
Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Haiti may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, Haiti may grant a margin of preference
to domestic contractors in  accordance  with,  and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and para-
graph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more,  the  procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist EdH in carrying out the Project, EdH shall
employ consultants whose qualifications,  experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be  selected  in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
