Page  1
July 10, 1996
His Excellency Fred Joseph
Minister of Economy and Finance
Republic of Haiti
Palais de Ministeres
Port-au-Prince, Haiti
Mr. Claude Elisma
General Manager
Electricite D'Haiti
Boite Postale 1753
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
Excellency and Dear Sir:
          Fifth Power Project (Credit No. 2053-HA) - Amendment to
             the Development Credit Agreement and the Project
                                 Agreement
Please refer to the above captioned Agreements, as amended.
     We are pleased to inform you that, as a result of our recent
discussions on the subject, the Association agrees to amend said
Agreements as follows so as to, streamline Project implementation,
provide for the establishment of an Special Account and update the
provisions on disbursements and procurement procedures.
Amendments to the Credit Agreement
1.   In addition to other amendments, all references to Parts A.3 and
A.4 of the Project are deleted other than the reference to Part A.4 in
Section 4.01 (b) that is replaced by a reference to Part A.2. The
respective sentences are adjusted accordingly so as to preserve the
meaning of the remaining text.
2.   Section 2.02 is amended by inserting the word "(a)" at the begin-
ning and by adding the following paragraph:
     "(b) The Borrower may, for  the purposes of the Project, open and
     maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the Borrower's
     central bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
     ciation. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
     shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
     this Agreement.".
3.   Section 3.01 (b) is amended by deleting the words "which shall
include" and subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (iii).
4.  Section 4.02 are amended by adding the following words at the end
of subparagraph (a) thereof:
    "or any subsequent agreement entered into to that end, under terms
    and conditions satisfactory to the Association.".
5.    A new Section 4.04 is added to read as follows:
     "(a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
     the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expen-
     diture, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               sound accounting practices, records and separate accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
Page  2
          (ii) ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures are retained until at least one year after
               the Association has received the audit report for the
               Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the
               Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
               was made; and
         (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
               (i) of this Section and those for the Special Account for
               each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
          (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
               any case not later than five months after the end of each
               such year the report of such audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion
               by said auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
               diture submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with
               the procedures and internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals; and
         (iii) furnish to the Association such other information con-
               cerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof,
               as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
               request.".
6.   Section 5.01 (c) is amended by inserting the words "or any other
legislative or regulatory provision applicable to EdH" after the words
"The Decree of the Borrower referred to in Section 1.02 (a) of this
Agreement".
7.  The table in Schedule 1 is amended by:
     (a)  replacing the figures "15,000,000", "800,000" and "500,000"
by the figures "16,000,000", "1,400,000" and "200,000", respectively;
     (b)  adding the words "and 85% of local expenditures" to the text
in the third column of Categories (1) (a) and (b); and
     (c)  deleting Category (1) (c).
8.   Paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 is amended by adding the following words
at the end thereof: "and the term 'local expenditures' means expendi-
tures in the currency of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.".
9.   A new paragraph 4 is added to Schedule 1 to read as follows:
     "4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
     Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
     for expenditures under contracts for goods and consultants'
     services under such terms and conditions as the Association
     shall specify by notice to the Borrower.".
10.  Part A of the Project is amended to read as follows:"
     "1.  Installation of additional power generation capacity for EdH
     in Port-au-Prince, including the acquisition and utilization of
     diesel power plants or medium-speed diesel units.
      2.   Preparation and implementation of a program for the reduction
      of EdH's energy losses.".
Page  3
11.  Part B of the Project is amended to read as follows:
     "1.    Carrying out of a study on the site location and cost
     estimate of medium speed generating plants to be constructed by
     EdH.
     2. Carrying out of a study to examine the current structure of
     EdH's tariffs, and development of recommendations for any required
     modifications to tariff structure and levels, particularly with
     regard to low-income consumers.".
12.  Part C of the Project is amended to read as follows:
     "1.    Development of a two-year training program for managers and
     high-level staff of EdH, aimed at improving their financial,
     commercial and technical capabilities.
     2.     Provision of technical assistance to EdH on:
     (a)  Project management; and
     (b)  planning activities.".
13.  A new Schedule 3 is added to read as set forth in the Attachment to
this letter.
Amendments to the Project Agreement
14.   Section 2.06 is deleted.
15.   Section 3.01 (b) is amended by:adding the words ", all such
professionals to be assisted by consultants financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit in the numbers and with the experience and
qualifications agreed with the Association;" at the end of sub-
paragraph (i); deleting subparagraphs (ii) and (iii); replacing
subparagraphs (iv) (A), (B) and (C) to read as follows:
     "(A) 75:1 in Fiscal Year 1996; (B) 80:1 in Fiscal Year 1997;
     and (C) 85:1 in Fiscal Year 1998 and ther/eafter.".
16.  Section 3.06 is amended by:deleting the words "produced in
Port-au-Prince" in subparagraph (a)(i);replacing subparagraphs (a)
(i) (A), (B), (C) and (D), to read as follows:
     "(A) 50% in Fiscal Year 1996; (B) 42% in Fiscal Year 1997; and
     (C) 35% in Fiscal Year 1998 and thereafter;"; and deleting
     subparagraph (a) (ii).
17.  Section 4.02 is amended by: replacing the year '1988' by the
year '1995'; replacing subparagraphs (a) (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv)
to read as follows:"(i) 0.5% in Fiscal Year 1996; (ii) 1.5% in
Fiscal Year 1997; (iii) 4% in Fiscal Year 1998, and thereafter.";
and deleting subparagraphs (a) (v) through (vii), while preserving
the last sentence of this last subparagraph.
18.  Section 4.04 is amended by:inserting the words "nor enter into
any power purchase agreement for more than 10 mw of capacity or 40
gwh per year" after the words "EdH shall neither commit itself to nor
make any capital expenditures (not required for the Project) which
would exceed by more than 1% the current net value of EdH's fixed
assets in operation"; andinserting the words "or power purchase
agreement" after the words "that the proposed expenditures".
19.   Part A of Section I of Schedule 1 is amended by replacing the
month "May 1985" by the month "January 1995"
20.   Section II of Schedule 1 is amended by inserting the number
       "1." before the paragraph thereof and by further inserting the
       following paragraph:
Page  4
       "2.  For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall
       employ such consultants under contracts using the standard
       form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
       Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
       the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents
       have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
       standard forms agreed with the Association.".
21.  A new Section III is added to Schedule 1, to read as follows:
     "Section III.  Special Provisions  Without limitation or
     restriction upon any other provisions in this Agreement, the
     following special provisions shall govern all procurement of
     goods referred to in Part A of Section I hereof:
     (a)  foreign suppliers shall be allowed to bid on all contracts
     and shall not be required to be associated with local suppliers;
     (b)  except for the use of unskilled labor, there shall not be
     any restriction on sources of labor;
     (c)  there shall not be any restriction on sources of materials;
     (d)  no reference, minimum or maximum prices shall be used for
     purposes of evaluation of bids for the supply of goods;
     (e)  bids shall be opened in public and their prices shall be
     read aloud; and
     (f)  contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid was
     evaluated as the lowest and responsive, in accordance with
     criteria clearly set forth in the standard bidding documents.".
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating this letter in the spaces provided below. This
amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts, each of
which shall be an original. Upon your confirmation, please return
one fully executed original to us.
     The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective
as of the date the Association receives one fully executed original
of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Krishna Challa
Acting Country Director
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Agreed:
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By:    Fred Joseph
       Authorized Representative
Date:  July 25, 1996
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI
By:    Claude Elisma
       Authorized Representative
Page  5
Date:  July 18, 1996
ATTACHMENT
                              SCHEDULE 3
                            Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule;
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
9,500,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
               which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
               such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid out
               of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
Page  6
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expen-
diture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  7
