Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2053 HA
                       (Fifth Power Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF HAITI
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated August 9, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2053 HA
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 9,  1989,  between  REPUBLIC OF HAITI
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Project will be  carried  out by Electricite d'Haiti
with the Borrower's assistance  and,  as  part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make  available  to Electricite d'Haiti the pro-
ceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth  in  this Agreement and in the Pro-
ject Agreement of even  date  herewith between the Association and
Page  2
Electricite d'Haiti;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "EdH" means  Electricite  d'Haiti,  an  entity organized
and operating under  the  Borrower's  decree  dated  April 8, 1977
published in Le Moniteur No. 39, dated June 16, 1977;
     (b)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and EdH of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (c)  "Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to
be  entered  into  between  the   Borrower  and  EdH  pursuant  to
Section 3.O1 (b) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term  includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (d)  "Subsidiary Loan" means the  loan provided for under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (e)  "Fiscal Year"  means  EdH's  fiscal  year  commencing on
October 1 in each calender year; and
     (f)  "Prior Agreement"  means  the  Project Agreement (Fourth
Power Project) between the Association  and EdH dated December 12,
1984 as amended from time to time, and the term includes all sche-
dules and agreements supplemental thereto.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set  forth or referred to in the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, an  amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to  eighteen  million  six  hundred  thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 18,600,000).
     Section 2.O2. The amount of  the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for  expenditures  made  (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made)  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  3
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from  the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  January  15 and July 15
commencing  July  15,  1999  and  ending  January  15,  2029. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
January 15, 2009  shall  be  one  percent  (1%)  of such principal
amount, and  each  installment  thereafter  shall  be  two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The  currency  of  United  States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09.  EdH  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permit-
ted to be  taken  under  the  provisions  of  Section 2.O2 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Page  4
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to this end,  without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause EdH to  perform in accordance with the pro-
visions of  the  Project  Agreement  all  the  obligations  of EdH
therein set forth, shall take  and  cause  to be taken all action,
including the provision of  funds,  facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to  enable EdH to perform such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend the  proceeds of the Credit to
EdH under a subsidiary loan  agreement  to be entered into between
the Borrower and EdH under  terms  and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association which shall include:
          (i)  that the Subsidiary  Loan  shall be denominated and
               repaid in dollars;
         (ii)  that EdH  shall  pay  interest  on  the outstanding
               balance of the Subsidiary  Loan  at a fixed rate of
               7% per year such  interest being capitalized during
               the grace period referred  to in subparagraph (iii)
               below; provided, however,  that  the Borrower shall
               deduct from the amount due to the Borrower from EdH
               on account of interest, any  amounts owed to EdH by
               any agency  of  the  Borrower  for  more than three
               months; and
        (iii)  that the proceeds will be repaid in a 20 year term,
               including therein a grace period of 5 years.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise  its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except  as  the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     (d)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall  take,  or cause to be taken, all
such measures as shall be  required  to  enable EdH to comply with
the provisions  of  Sections  4.02  through  4.05  of  the Project
Agreement and in the  implementation  of the energy loss reduction
program included in Part A.3 of the Project.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out  by  EdH  pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of  the Project
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01.(a)  The  Borrower  shall, promptly as required,
take all actions necessary on  its  part  to enable EdH to set and
maintain an electric power tariff  structure and level of rates as
Page  5
required  to  enable   EdH   to   fulfill  its  obligations  under
Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement.
     (b)  Without limitation to  the  provisions  of paragraph (a)
above, the  Borrower  shall,  for  purposes  of  Part  A.4  of the
Project, take  all  necessary  actions  to  support  EdH's actions
against theft of electricity .
     Section  4.02.  The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  comply  with  its
obligations under the agreement entered  into  with EdH on May 14,
1987 which provides  for  the  settlement  of outstanding electric
bills owed to EdH by the Borrower's departments and agencies;
     (b)  unless the Association shall  otherwise agree, shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or  waive  such agreement or any provision
thereof; and
     (c)  (i) take all measures  necessary  or advisable to ensure
that future  electricity  bills  owed  to  EdH  by  the Borrower's
departments and agencies are paid not later than thirty days after
the date they are billed;  and  (ii)  permit EdH to discontinue or
terminate service to the Borrower's departments and agencies which
are not current in the settlement of amounts owed to EdH.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall not request or permit EdH to
use its resources for any purposes other than to pay for the costs
of its operations and investments and to service its debts.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  EdH shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make  it improbable that EdH will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The   Decree   of   the    Borrower   referred   to   in
Section 1.02  (a)  of  this  Agreement  shall  have  been amended,
suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or   waived   so  as  to  affect
materially and adversely the  operations or financial condition of
EdH or its ability  to  perform  any  of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of EdH or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.O1 (b) of the
Page  6
General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and EdH;
     (b)  the Borrower has furnished  to the Association an action
plan, satisfactory to the Association, specifying the action to be
taken and the procedures to  be  followed  for the carrying out of
the obligations under Section 4.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
     (c)  the Borrower has furnished  to  the Association the plan
of action referred to  in  Section  3.01  (b)  (ii) of the Project
Agreement for Fiscal Year 1990.
     Section  6.O2.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.O2 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in  the  opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by EdH, and  is  legally  binding  upon EdH in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the  Borrower  and EdH and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and EdH in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.O3. The date  November  9, 1989 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.O1. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.O9 of this
Agreement, the Minister of  Finance  of the Borrower is designated
as  representative   of   the   Borrower   for   the  purposes  of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere de l'Economie
            et des Finances
          Palais des Ministeres
          Port-au-Prince
          Haiti
          Fax Number:                         Telex:
               509-1-24420                      203-0347
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           44OO98 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  7
                    REPUBLIC OF HAITI
                    By /s/ Leonce Thelusma
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Goods and services
     for:
     (a)  Part A.1 of           13,600,000       100% of foreign
          the Project                            expenditures
     (b)  Part A.2 of              800,000       100% of foreign
          the Project                            expenditures
     (c)  Part A.3 of            1,300,000       100% of foreign
          the Project                            expenditures
(2)  Consultants'                  600,000       100% of foreign
     services                                    expenditures
(3)  Training                      500,000       100%
(4)  Unallocated                 1,800,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 18,600,000
2.   For  the  purposes  of   this  Schedule,  the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures  in  the  currency of any country
other than that of  the  Borrower  for  goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date  of  this  Agreement except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not  exceeding  the equivalent of SDR 115,000,
may be made on  account  of  payments made for expenditures before
that date but after March 31, 1989.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
Page  8
     The objectives of the Project  are: (a) to expand and improve
EdH's electricity-generating facilities  in  the  city of Port-au-
Prince in accordance with  a  least-cost expansion program; (b) to
supply electricity  to  the  cities  of  Hinche  and Thomonde; and
(c) to improve EdH's efficiency.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
1.   Installation of  two  gas  turbines  of  a  capacity of about
20  megawatts  each,  to  increase  EdH's  generating  capacity in
Port-au-Prince.
2.   Installation  of  about  42  kilometers  of  23-kilovolt sub-
transmission lines extending  from  the  Peligre Hydroplant to the
city of Hinche.
3.   Acquisition and  utilization  of  distribution  equipment and
tools for EdH's maintenance  crews  to increase the reliability of
EdH's electricity distribution system  and  to increase the safety
of its maintenance crews.
4.   Preparation and carrying out  of  a program for the reduction
of EdH's energy losses.
Part B:   Studies:
1.   Carrying out a study on  the site location and cost estimates
of medium-speed diesel generating plants to be constructed by EdH.
2.   Carrying out a  study  on  the  feasibility of converting the
frequency of the plant known as Ciment d'Haiti from 50 hertz to 60
hertz.
Part C:   Institutional Development
1.   Carrying out of  a  program  of  institutional development of
EdH, including, inter alia: a review of its by-laws; a revision of
its  organizational   structure,   and   an   improvement  of  its
information, accounting and inventory control systems.
2.   Development of  a  three-year  training  program for managers
and higher-level staff, aimed at: (a) strengthening the management
capability at EdH; (b) improving the financial, administrative and
technical capabilities of EdH,  including scholarships abroad; and
(c)  improving   EdH's   training   capabilities,   including  the
acquisition and utilization of teaching materials and equipment.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
