Do>mu of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Reprt Ne. 12326
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2637-CO)
SEPTEMBER 20, 1993
MI CROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12326
Type: PCR
Infrastructure Di-Ision
Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its conteots may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



F iLeal Year
Januay I to December 31
CURRENCX EUI1VALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso Colombiano (ColS)
Average Cajendar 1984
US$1 = Col$ 100.8
Col$ I   US$0.0099
Exchcange Rate Effective October 27. 1985
US$1  = Col$ 161.6
Col$ I  -  US$0.0062
Weights and Measure
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
EPM          Empresas Publicas Municipales
(Municipal Public Works Company)
EPMB         Empresas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla
(Barranquilla Municipal Public Works Company)
FFDU         Fondo Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano
(Fund for Urban Development)
INAS         Instituto Nacional de Salud
(National Institute of Health)
INCOMEX    Instituto Nacional de Comercio Exterior
(National Institute for Foreign Trade)
JNT          Junta Nacional de Tarifas
(National Tariff Board)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLU BANK
WaSh1ngt0n, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operatloss Evaliation
September 20, 1993
MEMORANDUMTO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AXP THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Colombia
Barranguilla Water SuDDYl Pro1ect (Loan 2637-CO)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Colombia - Barranquilla
Water Supply Project (Loan 2637-CO)n prepared by the Latin America and the
Caribbean Region. No Part II was prepared by the Borrower; comments received
from the Guarantor are attached in a translated copy.
The project was to restore the most deteriorated part of the water
supply system of Barranquilla, Colombia's fourth largest city, located on the
Atlantic coast. The US$24 million loan was also to help increase water supply
coverage from 50t to 951 in five years, eliminate sewage overflows in downtown
areas, re-establish door-to-door garbage collection, and improve the municipal
utility's efficiency in finances, operations and maintenance. The disbursements
vere suspended due to non-compliance with several Loan Agreement requirements and
US$2.1 million were canceled.
Several components were either not implemented (sewerage) or failed short
of target (water supply coverage at only 651 in 1990).   The institutional
strengthening component was the most startling failure. The municipal utility's
responsibilities were awarded to a private cempany only recently.
The PCR gives a fair assessment of the principal impediments to successful
project implementation.   No reliable reassessment of economic or financial
returns could be provided due to the uncertainties still affecting the "enabling
environment".    Overall,  the  project  is  rated  as  unsatisfactory,  its
sustainability as uncertain, and its institutional impact as negligible.
This documnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients rly in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed uithout Wortd Bank uthorization.



FOR OMCIAL uSE ONLY
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2637-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PageNog
Preface                 .     .. .......... . i          . ..        ...................
Evaluation Surunary .............................-........ ii
PRO       J ECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECT_ VE  .......................................1
1.    Project Identification        ..............................1
2.    Background          ..............................1
3.    Project Objectives and Description  ..............................4
4.    Project Design and Organization  ..............................S
5.     Project Implementation   ..............................7
6.    Project Results         .............................                                 11
7.    Projec Sustainability        .............................                            12
8.     Bank Performance and Lessons Learned .............................                   13
!0.    Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned .............................               14
10.    Bank-Borrower Relations  .............................                               15
11.    Performance of Consultants and Contractors .............................I S
12.    Project Documentation Data .............................                             16
11.  PJKO.ECE REVIMW EOM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Comments received from  the Guarantor April 23, 1993 ............. 17
m.    STATISTICAL INFORMATION                  ..................... ............................. 20
1.     Related Bank Loans Prior to the Project ...........................-----. 20
2.      Project Timetable        .......................... . ,20
3.   Loan Disbursement ....................... 20
4.   Project Implementation    ................. 21
5.      Project Cost and Financing      ................. 22
6.      Project Results        .................. -23
7.   Status of Loan Covenants  ................. 24
8.   Use of Bank Resources ................... 45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



COLOMBIA
PROJECr COMPLELION RIEPORT
BARRANQURLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECr
(Loan 2637-CO)
Ihis is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Barranquilla Water Supply Project in
Colombia financed under Loan 2637-CO for US$24.0 million. Loan 2637-CO was approved on
November 26, 1985, and the project was carried out from 1986 to 1991. T'he original closing date was
December 31, 1991. Because of prolonged non-compliance with various loan covenants, loan
disbursements were suspended on June 19, 1991, the suspension was not lifted because of continued
non-compliance, and the undisbursed balance of US$2.1 million was canceled on November 8, 1991.
91.2% of the loan was disbursed, with the final disbursement made on August 8, 1991.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division, Country Department Im, of the Latin
America and the Caribbean Regional Office. It is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan
Documents, information gleaned from the project files, materials obtained during the project
completion mission, and discussions with Bank staff and with consultants who were associated with
the project
This report contains Parts I and HI prepared by the Bank  Since the Borrower has been
divestd of responsibilities for water supply, sewerage and solid waste services, with the creation of
a new company with private sector participation to be responsible for these services, and there is no
continuity of the Borrower's staff, Part II cannot be prepared by the client. There has been no access
possible to the Borrower's records despite repeated efforts. Comments on thi report have been
requested from the Guarantor, and the comments received are attached in a translated copy.



-I
COLOMBIA
PROJECr COMPLTInON REPORT
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECr
(LAn 2637-CO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.   OBECIVES.
The project objectives were to:
(i) restore the most deteriorated parts of the water supply system and expand service to low-
income neighborhoods in the south-western part of the city so as to increase water supply
coverage from 50Wo to about 95% by 1990;, (ii) eliminate sewage overflows in some key
downtown areas through the expansion of collector capacity, (iii) re-establish regular door-to-
door solid waste collection services to about 50% of the city's area; (iv) improve EPMB's
financial performance such that the company would be able to finance by 1989 about one-
third of its investment needs from internal cash generation; (v) increase EPMB's operating
efficiency; (vi) establish an adequate capacity for maintenance of EPMB's equipment and
facilities.
L    IMPLEMENTAT1ON.
(i)     The loan was signed on December 16, 1985 and became effective four months later,
April 30, 1986. The closing date was 't for December 31, 1991. Due to the notable
non-compliance with various clause4 -'ie Loan Agreement the Bank decided to
suspend disbursements on June 19,1991, and subsequently canceled the loan account
and the remaining undisbursed balance of US$2,097,125.85 on November 8, 1991.
(ii)    From the start of the project, it was beset by problems due partly to the lack of
funding, given the difficult financial situation of EPMB. Despite these problems, the
contracting of the civil works for the water supply system and the majority of the
tenders for supply of equipment were carried out. During the whole of the project's
implementation its performance depended directly on the General Manager of EPMB
and the Mayor of the city, both of whom, in spite of various changes of incumbents,
were subject to significant local political influence. In general, the procurement for
equipment and materials was carried out, but the majority of the equipment and
materials were not installed/in use by the date of loan cancellation. 91% of the loan
was disbursed, but the majority of the planned works were not carried out to the stage
of being fully functional as intended.



- iii -
(iii)    The sewerage program to have been crried out towards the end of the project and
the water service improvement component.in the south-western zone were not
executed.
(iv)     The acquisition of the solid-waste collection equipment was carried out. Shortly after
receiving this equipment, EPMB contracted the solid-waste collection of the most
profitable zones with private contractors on very unfavorable terms.
(v)     The component of institutional strengthening included the acquisition of vehicles, and
the contracting of consullmnts for designing the institutional strengthening. The
contract was awarded initially to a French-Colombian consortium, whose efforts were
considered unsatisfactozy by the Borrower. Consequently, the contract was canceled
after the diagnostic phase was finishec. In agreement with the Bank, EPMB
contracted a consultant, who had participated in the supervisory missions for this
component, to direct a group of professionals and continue with this consutancy for
institutional strengthening. The consultants designed new accounting, management
information, inventoty management and commercial systems to the point of being
ready for implementation. The programs and systems developed were never
implemented because there was opposition Erom the union, in particular to the
accounting system. The technical assistance unit was disbanded just when the systems
were ready to be implemented.
(vi)     The increase of wo.-Idng capital financed under the Bank loan was totally absorbed
by the acquisition of spare parts and chemicals for the treatment plants, and hence
served its objective of giving EPMB an initial "shot in the arm".
PROJECr RESULTS.
(i)     The project aimed at increasing the coverage of the water supply service to 95% of
the population in 1990. However, because of failure to cany out the expansion
program in the souti-western zone, 35% of the city population remained in 1990
without improved access to drinldng water.
(ii)     The works carried out in the water distnbution system and the treatment plants
allowed the city to maintain to some extent its water supply service and prevent an
even more chaotic situation than the eventual result.
(iii)    Although the 50,000 new meters acquired to improve collection and to reduce the
percentage of unaccounted for water were not installed, they should be a valuable
contnrbution for the new water supply and sewerage company, which was created in
1991, with private sector participation.
(iv)     The elimination of overflow of the street drains in some of the principal areas of the
city-center was not attained, as the sewerage component was not implemented.
(v)     The objective of establishing a solid-waste collection service for 50% of the
population was reached, although waste disposal and its management were not
improved, since the necessary studies were not carried out.



-iv-
(vi)     The objective of strengthening EPMB in management, administraticK and finances,
was not ufil   Public dissatisfaction became intense with the lack of access to
water supply of important parts of the oity, poor maintenAance leading to serice
interruptions and overflow of raw sewage in the city center, and disgust with the
perceived high level of mis-management With the support of important private
sector associations and the intervention of the national Govenment, a decision was
taken to divest EPMB of responsibility for water supply, sewerage, and solid waste
services, and create a new company with minority private shareholding (but u jority
voice on the Board) to be responsible for these services in Barranquilla. The new
structure relies considerably on sub-contracting with the private sector. Meanwhile,
the national Goverment is meeting debt service obligations to the Bank.
(vii)    The benefits expected at the time ef appraisal were only pailly obtained, through
some rehabilitation of the water supply network, water treatment plants and storage
tanks, and establishment of solid waste collection services.
D.   SUSW.'AINABUITY.
The lemoval from EPMB of water supply and sewerage servike responsibilities was the
culminating reflection of the unviability of the institutional framework. The eventual increase of
servce coverage, efficiency and quality of the water supply, sewerage, and solid waste management
services will depend crucially on thl viability of the new institutional structure and its freedom from
politization.
E.    LESSONS LEARNED.
fi)     The main lesson of this project is the fundamental importance of an "enabling
environmente for institutional performance. Efforts at utility rehabilitation/reform will
fail if this environment is counter-productive. The Barranquilla project is an extreme
manifestation of a rather common phenomenon which explains the poor performance
of numerous water supply/sanitation and other inastructure projects. EPMB seemed
to have a formal autonomous identity and clearly, several managers, staf£ and Board
members were well-intentioned. Still, the objective of providing efficient and effective
service was defeated by the divergent goals of powerful interest groups (local
politicians and organized labor), and the Borrower did not carry on its operations in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, and public utility practices.
(ii)     The failure of this and many other projects in the water supply and sanitation sector
in Colombia to achieve lasting institutiona/financial viability has driven home the
point both to the Government of Colombia and the Bank, that it is vital to examine
carefully the 'enablinge or "disablinge nature of the environment before project
lending, and abstain from lending if the environment is not right rather than make
a loan in the expectation of promoting efficiency and effectiveness in a counter-
productive environment not well understood to be such. As a result, there is
currently much greater emphasis on setting sound sector policies and creating an
'enablinge environment as pre-requisites to lending. The failure of projects, such as
with EPMB, has contributed to an improved understanding of the real nature of the
problem, and a change of approach.



.V.
(iii)    Technical atance and loan conditionality wem (and, in general, ae) aither
sufficient nor effective to counteract problems such as those encounted in EPMB.
Priodic and partial attempts at corrcon of some symptoms of the system did no
change its basic nature IThere was little possibility of making such efforts more
lasting as they conflicted with the objecties of interest rups in many areas (e.g.
stfing& continuity and autonomy of management, professional and efficient
purchasing, accounting and financial controls), and the Boroweres ability was limited
to maik staff respond to management authority.
(iv)     It b difficult to eqxpt an entity, whose previous experience demonstrated repeatedly
its inabilty to maintain its accounting correctly and up-to-date, even with technical
assistance, to manage its accounts to reflect the investment made and the use of the
fwnds of a significant-sized project. Subsequent to this project and other project in
Colombia, it is clear that basic prior capacity in this area is essential for satisfatoiy
project perfomance, monitoring, and timely corrective action.
(v)     Although a consortium arrangement (such as the one tried for technical assistance to
EPMB) betwen local and foreign firms can be beneficial in combiing intemational
epertis with knowledge of local conditions, the success of such an arrangement
depends critically on the strengths of the different companies, a clear definition of
responsibilities, effective coordination, and the commitment of the local authorities
to the objecdves of the effort



COLOMBIA
PROJECrcOMPTON REPORT
BARRANQULIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECr
(Li  2637CO)
L
S                                  Sg
21  THE WATER SUPPLY SUCIL MR.
(i)    'Me water supply and sewerage sector in Colombia was for long under the
responsi'bility of the Ministry of Public Health which, in coordination with the
National Planning Department, formulated national sectoral policies.  Two,
institutions the National Institute of Urban Development (INSFOPAL) and the
National Institute of HIealth (INAS), were responsiblb for tnlmtigthese policies
in urban areas and in rural comunities with less than 2,500 inhabitants respectlveby.
Both of these institutions acted as financia channels for sectoral investments. Ite
Urban Development Fund (X:E:U) of the Central Mortgage Bank also provided
incesing levels of finacing for investments in the urban sector.
(ii     On the local level, different type of institutions had responsi'bgiites for construcing
maintaining and operating water supply and sewerage service facilities. Ill 28 principal
cities, municipal public works companies (EPMs), were in charge of water and
sewerage services. The Empresas Publicas Municipales de Baffanquilla (EPMB) was
one such municipal public works company. EPMB was the beneficiax of Loan 1072-
CO, granted to INSFOPAI, in the amount of US$10QS millon, to v=ute water and
sewerage works, completed in 1982. In most snaller towns, water supply and



-2-
sanitation services were provided by Sanitation Works Companies over which
INSFOPAL exerted considerable influence. In ura areas, water and sanitation
facilites were built, operated and maintained by departmental offices of INAS in
coordination with the beneficiaty communities.
(iii)    The performance of most sector institutions was unsatisfactoty. Poor financial
performance and weak management combined with the effect of low tariffs, poor
commercial practices, frequent and mostly politicaly motivated changes in top- and
middle-management positions, and poor administrative, budgeting and planning
systems were generally at the heart of ineffectiveness, and caused inadequate
maintenance and inefficient operation of many water supply and sewerage systems,
and generally high levels of unaccounted-for water.
(iv)     During the project preparation period, the Government, under its plan for.
development with equity ", declared its aim of providing adequate water and sanitation
services to all its citizens. For 1990, it adopted coverage targets for urban areas of
90% of the population for water supply, and 80%o for sewerage, and service levels of
40% for water supply, end 35% for sewerage for rural areas
(v)     Since 1968, the Bank has made 13 loans totalling US$575.0 million, for water supply
and sewerage development in Colombia. Bank funds accounted for about 70% of the
exemal loans made available to the sector. About 60% of loans (US$340 million)
were made to EPMs in Barranquilia, Bogeta, CalL, Palmira and Cucuta By far the
largest borrower has been the Bogota Water Supply and Sewerage Company. Three
Bank loans, for a total of US$67.1 million, wcre made to INSFOPAL for relending
to local companies in support of 36 subprojects in 30 medium-sized and small cities
and towns. In addition, INSFOPAL was the channel used to finance water supply
components of Bank-financed small urban development projects. The most recent
Bank loan (LA. 2961-CO) in the sector has been in support of the Water Supply and
Sewerage Sector Project, now in implementation, and its sectoral reform approach is
a distinct change from the previous INSFOPAL loans.



-3-
22  THE BARRANQUIUA SYSfL
(i)     Barranquilla, located on the Atlantic coast near the mouth of the Magadalens Rve,
is Colombia's fourth largest city with an estimated population of about 1.1 million in
1985 (when the loan was appraised, ncgotiated, and approved by tht Board) and
annual growth of about 3.5%. As the cmmercial center of Colombia's Atlantic Coast
Region, the city had attracted migrants from rural areas, and was expected to continue
to do so for the foreseeable future. Public services in Barranqulla were the lowest
in coverage and quality among Colombia's larger cities. Most of these services were
provided by EPMB.
(ii)    At the time the project was initiated, EPMBs water supply facilities served about
600,000 people (half of the city's total population) through about 80,000 residential
house connections. An additional 5,000 connections provided water to industrial and
commercial enterprises. EPMB estimated that about 150,000 persons received water
through illegal connections. The remaining population, BarranquiLla's poorest who
lived predominantly in the south-western part of the city, purchased (and continue to
purchase) water from private vendors.
(iii)    Barranqulla's water souse is the Magadalena River. Water delivery to the city is
effected through a system of storage and pumping facilities running in a southwesterly
direction. Tis system was noted as having major shortcomings In particular, the
transmission capacity was insufficient to deliver the additional production from a now
treatment plant (No.5) to the south-western part of the city, where most of the future
urban development was expected to take place.
(iv)     Ihe water system had generally been in a very poor state of maintenance and repair.
In April 1985, this was illustrated dramatically when a pump for transmitting treated
water failed, paralyzing most of Barranquilla's water system and leaving some 400,300
of EPMB's customers without water for almost 4 days.
(v)     The project was therefore designed to focus on the rehabilitation of the most
deteriorated parts of the system, reequipping of existing pumping stations and
repairing of treatment plants, transmission, storage and distribution facilities to reduce
the risks of future breakdowns and to increase the system's efficiency.
(vi)     Extensive leakage, numerous illegal connections, and the virtual absence of
consumption metering had been responsible for a high level of unaccounted-for water
rate (about 45% of total production). Lack of meters and the tropical climate had
encouraged high water use, estimated at about 300-350 liters/capita daily.



-4-
3.  PROEUM OBJIIWI   AND DESCRIFIION
3.1   QBIECIIVB
The ptoject was designed to restore and extend acceptable water supply, sewerage and solid
waste services to Barranquillas's population and to bring about financial strengthening and
institutional development of EPMB, as follows:
(i)     The service rehabiltation and expansion progam aimed to: (a) restore the most
deteriorated parts of the water system; (b) expand service to low-income
neighborhoods in the south-western part of the city so as to increase water supply
coverage from around 509% to about 95% by 1990 (75% through house connections,
and 20%o by public standpipes); (c) eliminate sewage overflows in some key dowmtown
areas and residential neighborhoods through the expansion of collector capacity; and
(d) re-establish regular door-to-door solid waste collection services in about 560% of
the city, and establish proper waste management serices for public markets and make
the final disposal of wastes more sanitary.
(ii)     The financial and institutional    g prograna aimed to: (a) improve EPMB's
financial performance so that the company would be able to finance by 1989 about
one-third of its investment needs from internal generation; (b) increase the operating
efficiency of all EPMB's services, and for water, reduce unaccounted for water from
the estimated level of 45% to ab.-at 32% by 1991 and stabilize the cost per m3 of
water sold at its then level in real terms through 1990; and, (c) establish an adequate
capacity for maintenance of EPMB's equipment and facilities.
32          PROJECIr DESCRMPION.
The components of the project were:
(i)     Water Suply. Construction of transmission mains (about 11 kn), a storage tank
(10,000 m3), re-equipment of pumping stations, repair and improvement of treatment
plant facilities, rehabilitation and expansion of the water delivery system in the south-
western zone, including the construction of about 50 public standpipes, to serve about
400,000 people; the purchase of about 40,000 and installation of about 70,000 water
meters, and of about 20,000 house connections.
(ii)     Sewerage. Construction of three sewage collectors (about 6 kIm).
(iii)    Solid Waste. Acquisition of solid waste collection equipment, including about 25
compacting trucks, 3 street sweepers, 2 front loaders, 2 bulldozers, 3 lifting trucks, and
various containers and equipment and spare parts for the repair shop.
(iv)     Institutional Improvement. Purchase of vehicles and equipment, training of EPMB's
staff and management, and technical assistance to improve existing or implement new
systems and procedures in the following areas: (a) management and organization; (b)
accounting and budgeting; (c) personnel management and staff training; (d)



-5-*
commercial activities; (e) the meter-shop; (f) purchasing and inventory management;
(g) maintenance and operation; (h) rehabilitation of the transmission system, including
leak detection and repair; (i) water treatment plant operation; U) unaccounted-for
water control; and (k) solid waste operation (increase in collection efficiency, more
sanitaty final disposal of waste, establishment of adequate equipment repa. and
maintenance capabilities).
(v)     Eogieering Services  Supervision of construction, survey of existing network
conditions and preparation of a rehabilitation and service expansion plan in the south-
western zone, an update of existing feasibility studies and the preparation of designs
and bidding documents for the next stage of water and sewerage investments, and a
solid waste study to define a cost-effective and environmentally acceptable long-term
solution to the final disposal of solid waste.
(vi)    Incremental Working CapitaL A contribution of US$2.5 million was to be disbursed
against chemicals and spare parts purchases between March 1,1985 and December
31,1987 to cover EPMB's needs for increased worldng capital resulting from the
project.
4.    PROJEC  DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.1 CONCEPIUAL FOUNDATION.
(i)     The design of the project was clear and apparently shared by the national and
municipal governments and by the Borrower. It was also consistent with the Bank's
strategy of financing the principal cities for the rehabilitation of their existing
facilities, to increase operational efficiency, to promote a better usage of the installed
capacity for water production, and to strengthen the responsible utilities institutionally
and financially. In this way, the project contributed by relieving the national
Government of these obligations, thereby allowing it to concentrate its efforts in
extending water supply and sewerage services to the poorer, large segments of the
population in other parts of the country.
(ii)     The project had important social implications with respect to the quality of life for
some 600,000 inhabitants of the city of Barranquilla (ofwhich 400,000 represented the
urban poor population), by giving them expanded access to a reliable and continuous
drinking water supply and solid-waste collection.
(iii)    At appraisal, it was expected that 51.9% of the project funds would be used in the
rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply and sewerage systems, 12.5% for the
acquisition of solid-waste collection equipment, 16.2% for institutional strengthening,
and 19.4% for financial strengthening through incremental working capital.
(iv)     The components of the project were adequate and correponded to the need to meet
Barranquilla's demand until 1990, in conditions of efficient and reliable service
delivery.



-6 -
(v)     A large part of the Bank loan (45.8%) was planned to be used for acquiring materials,
equipment, spare parts and chemicals which were indispensable for the rehabilitation
of the water distnbution, water treatment, and solid waste systems. 1Q8% of the loan
was programmed for partially financing the civil works construction and the
installation of the acquired equipment, 10.4% for contracting consultants for the
institutional strengthening, 1&3% for interest payments and other charges during the
implementation of the loan, and 14.7% was left to cover contingencies.
42 LOAN PREPARAIIONL
(i)     In 1979 EPMB requested financial assistance from the Bank to design an expansion
program for the water supply and sewerage systems to satisfy the city's needs; the
estimated cost of this program was US$45 million. EPMB contracted consultants to
draw up a master plan, which, in 1983, allowed formulation of an investment program
of US$100 million for potable water, sewerage, and solid-waste systems.
(ii)    Due to EPMB's weak financial and institutional situation, this program, by mutual
consent with the Bank, was down-sized. Prodty was assigned to works which would
meet the city's requirements until 1990, as an intermediate stage and prior to the
preparation of a project for further expansion programs, thereby permitting adequate
institutional strengthening.
(iii)    A Bank preparation mission visited EPMB in October 1984, the project was appraised
in February 1985, and the loan was approved by the Bank's Board on November 26,
1985.
43    ROLES AND RESPONSIBLITES.
The role and responsibilities of EPMB in the project were clearly defined in the project
Nevertheless, despite numerous and repeated commitments to reform (with partial progress in specific
areas and attempts at reform by several managers), by and large EPMB did not play its role or meet
its responsibilities to the extent the appjropriate "enabling" environment did not exist in Barranquilla.
The results were mismanagement and deterioration of the financial situation, weak project
implementation, poor maintenance and continued limited access of the population to basic services,
culminating in public protests and a decision to create a new entity (85% municipal and 15% private),
to be responsible for providing water supply, sewerage, and solid waste services, while relieving
EPMB of these responsibilities.
5.    PROJECT IMPlMTATION
The loan agreement was signed on December 16, 1985 and became effective four months
later, April 30,1986. The loan closing date was set for December 31,1991. Due to the notable non-
compliance with various clauses of the loan agreement, the Bank decided to suspend disbursements
on June 19,1991, and subsequently closed the loan account and canceled the outstanding undisbursed
balance of US$2,097,125.85 on November 8, 1991. From the start of the project, it was beset by
problems in its execution, due to the lack of counterpart funding, given the difficult financial situation
of EPMB. Even so, the contracting of the civil works for the water supply system and the majority
of the tenders for supply of equipment were carried out. During the whole of its implementation,



.7,
the project's performance depended directly on the General Manager of EPMB and the Mayor of
the city, both of whom, in spite of var.ous changes of incumbents, were always subject to significant
local political influence. In general, the procurement of equipment and materials was carried out,
but the majority of these were not installed or put into use by the date the loan was canceled.
91.2% of the loan was disbursed, but the majority of the planned works are still not functionaL
5.1   EXECUTION OF THE VARIOUS COMPONEN
Water System Works
(i)    Tle 11 km of planned mains network and the 10.000 me storage tank, which was
named Veinte de Julio (20th of July), were constructed. The equipment for
rehabilitating the pumping stations was acquired but was not installed. Many of the
vital parts and much of the equipment for improving the water supply system were
similarly acquired, but were not installed at the time the loan was closed.
(ii)    17,000 residential meters were installed (12,000 existed in the stores of the EPMB)
and 50,000 more, complete with the necessary accessories, were procured but not
installed.
(iii)    Valves, vents and hydrants were acquired for the rehabilitation of the distribution
system, and 2,000 residential connections were effected.
(iv)     The equipment for rehabilitating the treatment plants was tendered, but only the
butterfly valves for plants 1,2 and 3 were installed. Some contracts were signed and
the initial payments made before the loan was canceled.
(v)     The repair of the elevated tank, used for washing filters, was completed.
(vi)     The rehabilitation and expansion program for the south-western zone was not carried
out, because, in 1988, EPMB and the Mayor's office requested the Bank to modify
the scope of this component to serve the inhabitants of this zone by means of
residential connections instead of public stand pipes as originally planned. This
modification implied the construction of a new pumping station, 20 km of main
piping, a 20,000 m3 storage tank, distnbution networks, and around 50,000 residential
connections, all amounting to about US$11 million, of which the Bank was requested
to finance US$2.9 million. The Bank repeatedly conveyed its support for this
modification, but with the conditions of: (a) submission of the detailed design
drawings for these works; (b) the assurance of availability of the corresponding
counterpart funding; and (c) compliance by EPMB with the contractual conditions of
the loan agreement, especially regarding the financial covenants. This program was
never executed as the conditions stipulated were never met. The financial situation
of EPMB kept worsening.
Sewerage.



The sewerage program was not executed. It was to have been carried out towards the later
part of the project Meanwbile, the continuing serious financial and institutional problems and non-
compliance with numerous covenants led to loan suspension and cancellation.
E guipme  for Solid-Waste Managment
In addition to the items mentioned in para. 3.2 (c) above, EPMB acquired 2 lifting trucks.
Shortly after receiving the solid-waste related equipment, EPMB contracted the solid-waste collection
in the most profitable zones to private contractors on very unfavorable terms.
I nstiuonal Stengthening.
(i)     The component of institutional strengthening included: a) the acquisition of vehicles,
and an 8r floating dredge, for maintainng the header-pond of the water works; b)
the contracting of consultants for planning the institutional strengthening in the
management, administration, commercial and financial areas; c) training, and, d)
purchase of computer equipment. Of this component, only the purchasing of the
vehicles, the dredge, and the hiring of consultancy services for the instittsional
strengthening were carried out.
(ii)    Although institutional strengthening was one of the fundamental objectives of the
project, initiation of this component was delayed by 2 112 years due to various internal
problems of EPMB. The contract was awarded to a French-Colombian consortium
whose performance was considered unsatisfactory by the Borrower (see parm 11 (ii)
below). The contract was therefore canceled after the diagnostic phase. In
agreement with the Bank, EPMB then contracted a consultant, who had participated
in the supervision missions for this component, to direct a group of 15 professionals,
made up of individual consultants and personnel of EPMB, to continue with the
consultancy for institutional strengthening and carry out the preparation of specific
plans for their implementation. The consultant and his group worked for about a
year and achieved significant progress in design of new accounting, management
information, inventory management, and commercial systems. These systems became
ready for implementation. The union strongly resisted the introduction of the new
accounting system (with the threat of a strike, and physical threats). At this point,
EPMB dismissed the Technical Assistance Group. It would seem that because of
vested interests EPMB senior management was unable to implement improvements
in these areas.
Engieerin Suies.
(i)     At the request of EPMB, accepted by the Bank, the supervision of the civil works was
carried out directly by personnel of EPMB. Although consultants for such supervision
were not contracted as anticipated in the appraisal report, Bank staff considered that
EPMB technical staff did an adequate job.
(ii)    A Colombian consulting company was contracted for work with respect to: (a) the
water pumping equipment to check the electro-mechanical designs, to prepare the
tender and technical specifications, and undertake the supervision consultancy during



-9-
its installation; (b) drawing up the design for the new pumping station for supplying
the south-western zone. This work was completed satisfactorily.
(iO)     Neither the designs of the second stage development for the south-western zone nor
the study of solid-waste operations were carried out.
(iV)     At one point, EPMB proposed a consultancy contract for leak control Thi contract
was canceled and not executed as the proposed effort would have conflicted with the
scope of the work of the consultants for institutional strengthening.
Worling CapitaL
This component was totally disbursed for the procurement of spare parts and chemicals for
the treatment plants.



- 10-
5.3   PROJECr RISKS.
(i)     The appraisal report identified the principal risks of the project as being the lack of
continuity of management, and the possible lack of political support at the municipal
level to maintain the program for financial and institutional strengthening. Tbe
financial weakness of EPMB was clearly identified. The sensitivity of the financial
projections to small variations (20%) in tariff increases, a short-fall in collections, in
the number of subscribers, or to an increase in the operating costs was flagged.
Problems in any of these areas would have made it impossible for EPMB to generate
sufficient funds for financing the investment program. It was considered, however,
that the risk was acceptable, given: (a) the project design to ensure institutional and
financial strengthening; (b) the measures already taken towards financial recovery as
a condition of loan processing, viewed as reflecting willingness of the authorities to
achieve EPMB's rehabilitation; (c) the cautious nature of the assumptions underlying
the expected rate of rehabilitation; and (d) the danger of further deterioration in
services if the project were not undertaken.
(it)     During the implementation of the project it was evident that the risks had been
identified correctly. However, the expected corrective leverage under the loan failed
to materialize, and EPMB's situation deteriorated to an irreversible crisis. The local
politicians who were represented on the Board of Directors did not demonstrate
primary interest in the program for financial and institutional strengthening of the
entity or the commitment to support the deep changes necessary. They encouraged,
inter alia the signing of financially unviable agreements with the union regarding
staffmg, recruitment for political reasons, and a burdensome contract for solid waste
collection. While there were several well-intentioned members of the Board (as well
as similarly well-meaning managers of EPMB and staff) according to the perceptions
of Bank staff who worked on the project, in the ultimate analysis, the Board was
unable to confront the difficult systemic problems and take the drastic actions needed.
(iii)    The extent of potential interference in the management of EPMB from local
politicians and the strength of local interest groups were not well understood and
hence underestimated. It was impossible, under these conditions, to attain efficiency
targets, improve management and administration, strengthen inventory management,
purchasing, and other systems, significantly improve maintenance or reduce
unaccounted for water. The delays in approving and applying tariff adjustments, the
failure to improve the efficiency of collections, the failure to reduce unaccounted for
water, the failure to increase the number of subscribers, the non-installation of the
already acquired meters in order to attain an adequate level of invoicing, the failure
to rationalize water consumption, and the failure to reduce the operating costs of the
entity, all made the institutional and financial crisis of EPMB a terminal case, with the
only possible solution being the liquidation of the institution and a search for an
altemative institutional structure.
SA    DISBURSEMEN'S.
There were no disbursements during the first year of the project. Disbursements only began
very slowly in the second year (1987), with average performance well below the forecasts of the



- 11 -
Appraisal Report. Disbursements were about 40% below appraisal estimates by June 30, 1989,
reflecting implementation issues. Total disbursements, however, reached 91.2% of the loan.
5.5 COVENANT COMPLIANCE.
From the start of the project, EPMB demonstrated great difficulties in complying with the
covenants of the Loan Agreement, especially those relating to the improvement of the financial
situation. The loan was not effective during the first 4 months as EPMB did not enter into
satisfactoiy contractual arrangements for refinancing of the overdue debt with its major suppliers and
creditors (Section 7.01), nor for additional financing of US$4.3 million before January 31, 1986
(Section 3.05 (a)). Reporting on project progress was unsatisfactory (Section 5.04) and the Project
Execution Unit was not maintained as stipulated (Section 3.06). Regarding Section 3.07 (a), EPMB
proposed to cancel the system of communal water supply points in favor of more residential
connections. Although the Bank would have been prepared to amend this section if the
conditionality stated in para. 5.1 (vi) above had been met, EPMB was unable to comply with the
latter. Given frequent changes in the management of EPMB and evidence of mis-management,
Section 4.01 was not complied with as stipulated in the loan agreement. There was repeated non-
compliance with Section 5.01 since the accounts did not adequately reflect the operations and
financial condition of the Borrower, preparation and submission of audited financial statements was
not timely, and the opinions of the auditors weie always adverse. There was no compliance with
Section 5.03, as overdue debts to suppliers and creditors were not paid according to the plan of
action. Section 5.04 was not met, as the financial situation of the entity was always critical and only
during certain periods was action taken to partially improve it. Despite several reminders, EPMB has
not refunded an amount of $14,740 outstanding in the Special Account, violating Schedule 5, para.
6 (b). The Guarantee Agreement (Section 3.02) established that the Republic would take actions
to enable the fulfillment of Section 4.01 of the loan agreement. Whatever attempts were made in
this direction, given the decentralized political framework, this commitment was not easy to
implement.
6. PROJECT RESULTS
6.1   IMROVEMENTS IN QUALITY AND COVERAGE
The improvement in the quality of the services and the expansion of coverage to meet growth
in demand up to 1990 had specific targets for each public service. Although these objectives and
targets were not reached, the works carried out in the water distribution system and the treatment
plants allowed the city to maintain to some extent its water supply service and prevent an even more
chaotic situation than the eventual result. If in a reformed institutional framework, the materials and
equipment acquired under the project are utilized, and the works originally planned are completed,
the benefits would be substantiaL More specific details regarding each area are provided below.
(i)     It was planned to increase the coverage of the service to 95% of the population in
1990. However, because of non-implementation of the water program in the south-
western zone, 35% of the city population did not obtain the planned access to
drinkdng water, and the project objective was not attained.



- 12 -
(ii)     The objective of establishing solid-waste collection for 50% of the population was
reached, although soWd waste collection efficiency, disposal, and management were
not improved because necessazy studies were not caried out.
(iii)    The elimination of overflow of the street drains in some of the principal areas of the
city-rcenter was not attained, as the seweiage component of the project was not
executed.
(iv)     The 50,000 new meters acquired to improve wioections and to reduce unaccounted.
for water were not installed, but can clearly be of considerable benefit to the water
supply and sewerage company newly created to succeed EPMB.
6.2   INSlTUTiONALSTRENGTHINiG.
The objective of strengthening EPMB in management, administration, and finances, was not
met. As a consequence of the structural nature of the crisis, by decision of the municipal council,
with considerable efforts by the national Govenmment at promoting reform, EPMB was divested of
future responsibility for water supply, sewerage, and solid waste services, and a new company with
minority private equity shareholding was created to take over these services.
6.3   PROJECr BENEFIM
The appraisal report considered it difficult to estimate and quantify, in a realistic manner,
project benefits, but expected that these would be substantial In retrospect, the project achieved
only limited benefits.
7.  PROT SUSTANABILY
With hindsight, the institutional framework in which the project was designed and
implemented was unviable. Whether the new structure can be more effective depends crucia1ly on
depolitized, professional, and autonomous management, with a fundamental commitment of local
decision makers to efficient and effective public services. To the extent the new company relies
largely on efficient forms of sub-contracting with the private sector and civic groups are able to
restrain adverse political pressure, such a result is possible.
8.  BANK PERFORMANCE AND LSONS
8.1   PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
The Bank clearly identified the risks emanating from the instability of the management and
operational staff of EPMB, as well as the dangers of the financial weakness of EPMB and possible
weakness of political support at the municipal level. The Bank was confident that the Borrower
would comply with contractual obligations and that there existed a real commitment on the part of
the local politicians to improve public services and strengthen EPMB. For this reason, the Bank
believed it had minimized project risks by including the institutional and financial covenants in the
loan agreement. During the implementation of the project, it was seen that the political interference
was much greater than anticipated, and that extra-professional interests were given priority over the
objective of improving and strengthening EPMB and improving the city's basic public services. The



- 13 -
Bank, during the preparation (and most of implementation of the project), did not fully understand
the strength of the perverse environent within which EAAB functioned. It did not distinguish
between declared objectiwves and commitments of the Borrower and the local authorities, and the
feasibility of these being translated fully into action, given the power of vested interests.
82   SUPERVISON.
Project supervision utilized 80.3 Bank staff-weeks during the implementation period between
1986 and 1992, which yields an average of 11.5 staff-weeks per year. Approximately 15 supervision
missions visited Colombia during these years. The project was quickly rated a "problem project" with
an overall performance rating of 3 from December, 1986, indicating serious problems. From the
project files and the supervision reports, it is clear that the discussions and efforts of the supervision
missions focussed mainly on: i) the delays and setbacks in the contracting and execution of the
consultancy contract planned for the institutional strengthening; ii) taldng measures related to the
fulfillment of the financial covenants by trying to improve the critical financial situation of EPMB,
such as tariff adjustments, reaching financial agreements with suppliers and creditors for outstanding
debts, improving the level of collections, the reduction of operating costs and rationalization of staff
strength, and obtaining additional counterpart funds from the mayor's office, the Province
(Department of Atlantico), and FFDU. Since the first supervision report, financial problems of
EPMB and the lack of counterpart funding necessary for executing the project were highlighted. The
permanent non-compliance with various covenants was significant, as also the delays in contracting
and late submission of the audited financial statements of EPMB. The auditors' reports always
contained qualifications and adverse opinions. Superision was carried out by regular Bank staff and
one long-term consultant of the Bank. Not all the supervision reports were found in the files. From
very early on the Borrower faced problems, showing varying degrees of disinterestfinability, or both,
in compling with the basic covenants for long term financial stability and institutional strengthening.
Threats of suspending disbursements and other punitive measures were frequently considered from
early on, but not applied, hoping that new administrations would comply with their promises. Every
time there was a change of General Manager of EPMB or mayor of the city there was a perceived
opportunity to correct the problems of the loan and improve performance. This perception of Bank
staff was encouraged by the Borrower's management and by partial compliance in some of the areas
flagged for corrective action. Supervis.on missions tried hard to convince the political class to change,
and strengthen support for reform at the local municipal level, but without success. In the absence
of adequate corrective actions, despite the continuous requests from the supervision missions, the
critical financial situation and structural weaknesses left no alternative but to suspend loan
disbursements in June, 1991. Even subsequently, attempts at reform through institutional
restructuring were seen as in the right direction, but given the long-standing nature of non-
compliance, and the non-feasibility of salvaging the project at this late stage as originally designed,
the undisbursed loan balance was canceled in November 1991, following discussions during the
Country Implementation Review with the Guarantor.
9.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE AND LESSONS LEARND
The performance of the Borrower was unsatisfactory, and so the objectives and targets of the
project were by and large not met. The principal weaknesses of the Borrower were the following:
(i)     The considerable influence of political interests within the Board of Directors and the
administration of EPMB prevented any true autonomy.



- 14 -
(ii)     The lack of continuity in senior and mid-level management of EPMB notably affected
the project, through changes in the objectives and physical targets, as well as the
interest in, and emphasis on, the different components. The performance of EPMB
in implementing the project was a sequential reflection of the performance and
capacity of each administration in the context of the overall "disabling* enionment
for reform.
(Oi)     The institutional and administrative weakness of the Borrower was re£lected in the
inability to maintain an accounting system which would permit accurate reflection of
the project's investments and use of project funds, as well as of EPMB's own overall
financial situation, to permit corrective action.
(iv)     The lack of results in the installation of the equipment and parts, as well as the
meters which were financed by the project, prevented achievement of the objectives
of expanding access to drinking water, reducing unaccounted-for water, and improving
the reliability of the water supply system. A clear interest existed to purchase the
equipment, but there was not a demonstration of the same commitment/ability to
install and put it into operation.
(v)     Despite the efforts of the Bank and the consultants for institutional strengthening,
there was insufficient commitment on the part of EPMB management and staff to
change, in implementing the recommendations and proposals of the consultants in
reforming and strengthening the administrative, commercial, financial and accounting
systems.
10.   BANK-BORROWV    RELATIONS
The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was always cordial. The close dialogue
between the Bank and the Guarantor contributed to facilitating introduction of a systemic change
towards the end of the project.
11.   PERFORMANCE OF CONSULTANIS AND CONTACTORS
(i)     The performance of the local consultants hired to provide assistance regarding various
aspects of pumping equipment and to assist in preparing bids for pipes was adequate
and complied with the expectations of the Borrower.
(ii)     The performance of the consultants initally contracted for the institutional
strengthening was not considered satisfactory by the Borrower. Ihis was ascribed to
a lack of clear definition between the partners of the consortium, inadequate
coordination, and lack of integration of the efforts of individual experts within a
complete and coherent strategy. Coordination of the foreign experts with both the
local consultants and with their counterparts in EPMB was also raised as an issue.
The foreign experts were considered to have dedicated a great part of their efforts
to work on the diagnosis of the technical conditions and operation of the system, and
relatively little to the administrative, technical, and financial strengthening of EPMB.
Given the Borrower's weakness, it is questionable to what extent better coordination



or different work priorities were feasible, or would have achieved tangible results in
the absence of Brrofwer commitment, staff support, and an "enabling enironment.
(iii)    After the contract with the French-Colombian consortium was canceled, the
subsequent efforts of the Technical Assistance Group led to the development of
programs and systems. Although this was, in the opinion of experienced Bank staff,
one of the best technical assistance efforts undertaken, it was not allowed to bear
fuit, for reasons noted earlier.
(iv)     In general, the contractors for the civil works and the suppliers of equipment and
maintenance complied with the agreed terms.



- 16-
12.   PROJEC  DOCI 1 ATION DATA
The information available in the Bank files, including those of the project preparation, the
audit reports, the supervision reports and the Aides-Memoires of missions were all very usefuL
However, the information from the implementation period is not uniform, and some of the back-to-
office and full reports were not found. Some of the supervision missions were in the nature of
'limited" supervision, and combined for reasons of economy with travel on other work assignments.
The supervision reports and the Aide-Memoires allow a global appreciation of the project's
development. However, a sequential foliow up of the execution and development of all components
of the project is not readily feasible for an extemal analyst not directly associated with the project's
evolution.



-17 -
PART II.  PROJECT REVEW FRM GUARANTOR' PERSPECTI
Unofficial TranA1atitn of Oriainal Letter
NATIONAL PLANNING DEPARTMENT              UDU No. 0067
Santafe de Bogot&, D.C.
April 23, 1993
Mr. P. Hari Prasad
LA3 Infrastructure Division
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Ref: Project Completion Report (Loan 2637-CO)
Barranaui_la Water SupplyProject
Dear Mr. Prasad:
With regard to your request for our comments on the draft
Project Completion Report for the captioned project with the
Barranquilla Municipal Public Works Company, we consider that the
report captures well the lessons from this operation.
Nevertheless, we would wish to make certain specific comments.
The project management shows up two aspects of special
importance for the manner in which the Bank approaches and
handles client relations: the methodology of project appraisal
and the nature of project supervision.
1.  The Appraisal Paradiqm (a) The World Bank has developed a
methodology for loan appraisal, which in this case, demonstrably
did not function, especially in a fundamental aspect: the
measurement of risk.
(b)    Risk.  If we understand by risk assessment the description
of those aspects outside the scope of the appraisal, we believe
that the model used by the Bank for its appraisals was incapable
of good risk assessment. One of the reasons is that it is a uni-
dimensional and static model, which, to the extent, it cannot
recognize certain variables (which, under other conditions, could
be measured), simply terms them "risk", but cannot measure them
or assess adequately their importance. The proof of this is that
the appraisal identified the risks which led to the failure of
the operation - and the company: political influence and
management discontinuity. But in failing to assess their
importance, the appraisal converted its recommendations into
k#A^4-a wwh 4h rh Aaerrmt,a A +Ugm ^v-4 4c ^P *%ha "V^4Aft*   A f%  ^n 



- 18 _
For example, the appraisal accepted as a remedial measure the
increase of tariffs, which simply meant passing on to customers
the inefficiencies which were recognized by it.
One way of arriving at better risk assessment could be to
approach the issue on two fronts: using a wider group of
specialists, including experts in evaluating political aspects,
or alternatively, experimenting with smaller loan operations
through which it would be possible to control the evolution of
the parameters of risk without disproportionately increasing the
financial burden of the company as happened with EPMB.
In summary, the institutional appraisal methodology of the
Bank is very good for the assessment of companies within
acceptable management/development parameters, but not for an
entity in the situation of EPMB.
(c) Suggested recommendations for the Bank are, therefore, along
the following lines:
(i)   Design a set of indicators to assess the environment in
which companies operate, establishing minimal criteria
for loan eligibility. If these criteria are not met,
the Bank should either opt for a rehabilitation loan or
require the potential borrower to reach on its own these
minimal criteria as a pre-requisite for a loan. An
essential condition is to not lend in the absence of up-
to-date accounting.
(ii)   It is evident that one of the lessons of the
Barranquilla project, as also of the Cucuta Water Supply
and Sewerage Project (Ln. 2470-CO) and the Fourth Bogota
Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Ln. 2512-CO), is that
the size of the operations was not consistent with the
capacity of the companies to manage the loans. A
possible conclusion would indicate as a recommendation,
phasing such operations, and expanding them in
conformity with demonstrated progress, and not in
inverse, making such large loans and ending up paying
high commitment fees with less works carried out.
(iii)   Another clear lesson is that, although apparently the
Municipality was a party to the project, it did not bear
the responsibility formally.  Our suggestion is that
difficult operations establish a commitment to provide a
guarantee, not financial, but institutional, with
financial implications. Such a step, we believe, is
another way to minimize project risk, with
conditionality for the Municipality as institutional
guarantor.



- 19 -
2.   (a)  Supervision M_odality.  Supervision modality is a
consequence of the appraisal methodology, and focusses on the
formal aspects of the operation. Supervision cannt measure or
react to aspects external to the company which affect it and the
project, for the same reasons mentioned above, of design. The
"red light" for the project did not function, a fact recognized
by the PCR, in that from its beginning the project had problems.
(b) Consequently, the suggestion is to establish automatic
cut-off conditionality in supervision. For instance, one such
cut-off would be that the loan would be suspended automatically
when certain conditionality is not met, without the "go-ahead" of
a BanX supervision mission. Additionally, when such a situation
is reached, lifting suspension implies carrying out de fgto a
new appraisal, and probing in depth the causes of non-compliance.
3.   Finally, I consider the language of the Barranquilla Project
PCR adequate, and hope that the report can receive wide
circulation, if possible, in keeping with the Bank's guidelines.
I will be pleased to expand on our comments, as necessary.
With best regards,
(signed, and sealed with title)
Ruben Dario Avendaflo Zuluaga
Chief of the Unit for Urban Development
and Municipal Equipment
cc: Dr. Jorge Castellanos
Director General of Public Credit
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Ms. Nora Alvarado
Chief of the Unit of External and Internal Credit
National Planning Department
Ms. Kristin Hallberg
Resident Representative
World Bank
Colombia Resident Mission



mU  SIMATIICALINFORMATION
1.lated SBank loa   Prior tt  Pro
1072nCo       Secon  _ut_ -            19?5     Conpleted      The Project took ffve years more
City Voter                        in Decermer  than originally plamed, with
Supply and                        1982.         problems arising from over-
Sewerage ProJect                                estimation of dand In sub-
projects, insufficient counterprt
funding, and weak Iaplementation.
^~ =b
PLANNEO           REVISED                ACTUAL
____________________________  _   __    DATE              DATE                   DAtE
Identification                               08/15/84              .                  08/15/84
Praepration Mission                          10/19/84                                 10/19/84
Appraisal "ission                            02/04/85              .                  02/04/85
Loan Negotiations                            10/16/85              .                  10/16/8w
Board Approval                               11/26/85              .                  11/26/85
Loan Signature                               12/16/85                                 1 12/16/85
Loan Effectiveness                           03/15/86                                 04/31/86
Project Completfon                           06/30/91
Loan Closing                                 12/31/91                        Loan closed and
undisbursed balance
canceled on 11/05/91.
3.         anD          n
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Dishur .mnt
(USS millions)
FT       86    87      88      89      90     91       92
Appraisal      1.5   10.2   16.6   20.8   23.1   24.0
Actuat           O    2.6    9.8   12.3   15.9   20.7    21.9
Actuat as                                   : 0
of Estimates         25.5   59.0   59.1   68.8   86.2    91.3



. 21.
A. Water upply
A.1  Installation of mains                    Km                    11           12
A.2 Rehabilitation of pumping stations
- Acquisition                            puAps and            5             5
* installation                           accessOries          5             .
A.3  Construction storage tank                Tank                  I            I
A.4  Water meters
- Acquisition                            W. meters            40.000        50,000
- Instatation                            W. meters            70.000        17.000
A.5   Installation house connections           h-connection          20,000       20,000
A.6  Rehab/Expansion in south-western zone   conswmrs served         400.000      Not implemented
A.?   Leak detection-rehab transm. system
- Acquisition                            valves and pipe                    Acquired
- Installation                           accessories                        Not installed
A.8 Impr/reha - treatment plants
- Acquisition                            valves                             Acquired
- Installation                           instrurents                        Not installed
- Repair storare tank                    Tank                  I            I
8.  Seueage                                      Collectors            3            Not laplemented
C. Solid Ua8te
compacting trucks                                                  25           25
street sweepers                                                    3            3
front loader8                                                     2             2
bulldozers                                                         2            2
lifting trucks                                                    3             S
containers                                                         50           50
D. In8tituticamt I^provement
Acquisition of vehicles & parts       Vehicles              28           28
- Acquisition of cutter dredge          dredge                I            I
- Consulting services, training                                            Hired
recoawmndations not
E. Studies/Engineering                                                              implemented
- Supervision of construction                                              Done by EPNB
- Bidding docwuents for rehab/exp.                                         Done
- Update feasibility water &                                               Partielly implemented
sewerage 2nd phase studies
- Solid waste study                                                        Not carried out
F.  Ircrewntal workfng capital                   USS (million)         2.5          2.5



A.^:
(Amounts in USS mfilan)
...    .     ....                                    ....r* .a
Vater supply                                                   7.7          8.0          15.7
8ewergeS                                                       0.3          0.6           0.9
Solid waste                                                    3.6          0.4           4.0
Institutional tmrovement                                       1.8          1.9           3.7
Studies/EngIneering                                            0.1          1.3           1.4
Incremental Marking Capital                                    2.5          3.7          6.2
Base Cost                                                     16.0         15.9         31.9 
(including about US$2.0 million of value added tax and
fn June 1985 prices)
Physical Contingencies                                         1.3          1.2          2.5
PrSce/Exch. Rate Contingeneies                               __U -3.S                    __
Total Project Cost                                           19.6         17.6         37.2
tnterest during Construction                                   4.4        _  -            4.4,
Total Financing Required                                    24.0          17.6         41.6
~~**.:s      O ..... ..                       .  . 
1) Mwrks                                                        1.2          1.9          3.1
2) Goods (other than chemicals and spare parts under           12.2           4.5         16.?
Part 0.3 of the Project)
3) Chemicals and spare parts under Part 0.3 of the Project      2.5          3.8          6.3
4) Consultant Services and Training,
Part 0.1 of the Project                                     1.9             .         1.9
5) Consuttant Services, Part E of the Project                   0.1          0.3           0.4
6) Interest and other charges on the Loan,                      4.0             .          4.0
accrued on or before March 14, 1991
21.9         1O.5         32.4
S.   finamnio Ptan
(Amounts in USS'000)
.. ...Fre$ -    L,,-                                                                        Totat 
EPNB Internal Cash Generation        .       9,900       9.900             .     4,131        4,131
FFOU                                 .       3,400       3,400                   5,375 ZI     5,375
Department of Attantico              .       4,300       4,300             .     1,024         1,024
IBRD                            24000                                21880           .        21,880
Total Financing            24,000       17,600     41,600       21,U80    10,530         32,410
y  Based an best estimates, after cbecking with staff of the forer FFDU and FINDETR and eztspolatlSg fm Bank
dlbumments (a mom accuaste brak dom of local cost and local financing is not posible gOen lack of acom to receatAnliable
BPMM data). Howaer, the margin of enxor is estimated as vey small, probably les than 1% of total prject cas and would
ony affet the categoiy of local cost for goods and the estimate for EPMB internal cash genemtiao
la Inluding fwm FINDETBR after its omataon to take over FUs roFlt



- 23.
1. Water Supply                     Restore most deteriorated parts   -   Some limited lmprovenent for
of water system, lnrease water        the population already
supply coverage to 95S In 199Q,       served.
and lqprove quality of the       -   Coverage was not fnereased.
service.
2. sewerage                         Eliminate sewerage overflow In   Not 1optemented
some key downtown areas and
residentlal neighborhoods.
3. Solid Waste                      Re-establish door-to-door solid   Equipment was purchased but,
waste collection services in     collection was contracted out on
about SOX of the city and        unfavorable terms; service was
pubtic markets, and make final    re-established.  No progress in
waste disposal more sanitary.    making final waste disposal more
sanitary.
4. institutional                    luprove financial performance     Not achieved. EPM8 divested of
such that the company be able     Its basic respons1ibilites due to
to finance by 1989 one third     finenieal and institutfonal non
of its lnvestments needs from    viability.  Efficiency was not
internal sourees; Increase       improved. Most equipment
operating efficiency of all      purchased was not Installed, and
services.                        mst works not completed.
S. Engineering Stud1es              Supervision of construction,      . Supervision was done directly
preparation of second expansion     by EPH3.
stage of water supply and         - Technical assistance was
sewerage, and final study of        util1zed for preparation of
solid waste disposal to define      designs and biddino of pipe
long term solution.                 and puwping stations
expansion.
- Other studies were not
executed.
6. Incremental working capital      Purchases of chemicals and        Done.
__________________   spare parts.                                     -__________________



- 24..
7.      Statu-s ozf LonQ eal
a) Condition for loan Effsctivenegs
- Sattsfctory contractual arrangements          7.1                 Met with detay
for refinancng overdue debts
with suppliers and creditors.
* Submission of legel opinion that              7.02                Not
contractual arrangeemnts were duty
authorized and ratified by the
parties thereto.
b) Conditiot for Disbursement
Evidence that  onsultnts                      Schedule 1,         Met with delsy
indicated In Parts D.1 and E.1 hired          pars. 3.
c) other CgZvgsn
- Implamet institutional development            3.03                Mot fulffiled
program (Part 0.1)
- Submission of semi-annual                     3.04                Not fulfilted on timely or
progress reports.                                                 comptete basis
- obtain by January 31. 1986                    3.05 (a)            Not fulfilled on time
additional financing of USS4.3
tilltion.
M-aintenance of project execution               3.06                Not fultflled on a continuing and
unit.                                                             fully satsfacetory basis.
-Arrangements with juntas de accidn comnnal   3.07 (a)              Not fultfilled, given changes
for standpipes.                                                   proposed by EPMB and inability
to coamly wfth stipulated
conditionality for these changes.
- Ensure continuity of qualified                4.01                Not fulfilled
management assisted by competent
staff.
- Borrower not to sell property or assets       4.04                Fulfilled
so as to affect efficiency of operations.
- Maintain adequate records mnd                 5.01 (a)            Not fulfilled
accounts.
- Prepare and submit audit reports              S.01 (b)            Not fulfflLed
annually on a timely basis.
- Seek agreement for investments                5.02                Fulfilled
exceeding US$200,000
-Payment of arrears to suppliers                5.03-               Not fulfilled
and creditors.
- Contribution of internally generated          5.04 (a)            Not fulfflled
funds for investment.                         _



25.
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  ........
- Reviw ecompipance uith financial         S.04 (8)                        Not fulfilled
covenants by 10/31 each year.
- Taking of actions to comply with        5.04 (C)                        Not fulfilled
financial and other performance
criteria.
- Refund amounts outstanding In the       Schedulo 5 pare. 6 (b)          Not fulfilted
Special Account upon the Sank's                                         (US$14,740 still not
request.                                                                refunded despite repeated
requests)
d) Cenants of the Guarantor                      GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
- Take actfons to enable Borrower to       3.0?                            Although the project felled,
fulfit Clause 4.01 of the                                               the Guarantor contributed
Loan agreement.                                                         to the eventual syste
change.
w Use _Ba Raym
A. Staff Inputs (Ieeks)
- Through Appraisal      25.4   2.4                                                          27.8
- Appraisal through
Board                                                                                      8.0
- Board Approval          8
through                                                                                    5.9
Effectiveness                 5.9
- Supervision                  I 7.3    14.3    17.4    13.4   9.2    14.7           4.4     80.7
TOTAL           33.4   15.6   14.3    17.4    13.4   9.2    14.7           4.4    122.4
,~~ .  _   _  -   -                          I                               



-26 .
B. W .s. .
-    Through
Ajpraf sat
tnrough Uoard
Approval
* Soard Approval
through
Effectiveness
S Supervision         01/86         2           7              SE FNA            I               F
04/86        2            4              SE FMA            1               F
09/86        1            2              SE                2               F
12/86        2            18             SE - C            3               F
03187        1            15             C                 FRNA J/         FRNA 3/
09/87        1            18             C                 FRUA J/         FRUA /
11/87        1            3              SE               3                F - N
03/88        2            21             SE                3               F - N
09/88        1            7              SE                3               t - "
01/89        2            6              SE -C             3               F - N
07189        1            1              SE                3               F - N
11/89        1            3              SE               3                F
06/90        2            5              SE-fNA            FRNA 3/         FRA I/
08/90        1            2                                FR"  1/         FRMA
09/91        1            2
t11 FRNA a Full Report Not Available
2  FMA  a Financiat Analyst; SE a Sanitary Engirner; C a Consultant
C33  1   a No significant problems; 2 a Noderate problem; 3 a Major problems
(43  F   a Financiat; N a Managerial



