Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
<(AI. NG3 X Cc
Report No. 5631-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMB IA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
NOVEMBER 8, 1985
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso Colombiano (Col$)
Average Calendar 1984
US$1 = Col$100.8
Col$1 = US$0.0099
Exchange Rate Effective October 27, 1985
US$1  = 161.6   ColS
Col$1 =   0.0062 US$
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
EPM       Empresas Publicas Municipales
(Municipal Public Works Company)
EPMB      Empresas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla
(Barranquilla Municipal Company)
FFDU      Fondo Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano
(Fund for Urban Development)
INAS      Instituto Nacional de Salud
(National Institute of Health)
INCOMEX     Instituto de Comercio Exterior
(Institute for External Trade)
INSFOPAL    Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
(National Institute for Urban Development)
JNT       Junta Nacional de Tarifas
(National Tariff Board)
JAC       Junta de Accion Comunal
(Neighborhood Action Committee)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- i -
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                       1
II.  THE SECTOR
The Setting. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Sector Organization. . . . . . . . . .        . .             3
Sector Performance and Prospects . . . . . .. . . . . . .    4
Past Bank Experience in the Sector . . . . . . . . e . . .    4
Bank Sector Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
III. THE CITY AND THE BORROWER
Water, Sewerage and Solid Waste Services in Barranquilla .    6
The Borrower/Implementing Agency . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
Previous Bank Lending to EPMB. .. . . . . . . . . . ...       9
IV.  THE PROJECT
Project Origin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .   9
Rationale for Bank Involvment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Project Objectives . . . .. . . .             .    . . .     10
Project Description.  .     .  .  .    . . .   . . . . . . .    11
Project Cost and Financing . . . .    .  .  . . .  .         12
Project Implementation . . . . . . .  .  .  . . . . .        14
Procurement . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Disbursements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     16
EPMB's Financial Prospects . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .    17
Changes in Service Responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Auditingr  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Reporting. . .       .  .  .  ..  . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Project lustification, Benefits and Affordability. . . . .   20
Project Risks .  . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Barranquilla from February 4 to February [5, 1985. The mission was
comprised of Messrs. Walter Stottmann, Sr. Engineer, and Thomas Zearley,
Financial Analyst.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofrcidal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
TABLES
Table 1: Project Cost Estimate  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
ANNEXES
1. Projections of Service Levels, Sales and Production. .   24
2.  Institutional Assessment of EPMB . . . . . . . . . . .   25
3. Project Description. . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .    27
4. Detailed Project Cost Estimate .      .  . . . . . ..   30
5. Procurement Schedule for Major Contracts . .  a . . . .    32
6. Project Implementation Schedule. . . . . . . . . . . .   33
7. Plan of Action for the Implementation of the
Institutional Strengthening Program. . . . . . . . .   35
8. Limits on Type of Procurement and Prior Review
Threshold. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
9. Allocation of Loan Proceeds. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   42
10. Loan Disbursement Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
11. Notes to the Financial Statements and
Financial Projections. ... ..    . .     .  . . .. .   44
12. Key Performance Targets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   63
13. Tariff Structure for Metered Residential Water
Consumption Approved in May 1985 by JNT. . . . . . .   64
MAPS
IBRD No. 19047, Barranquilla Water Supply System.



- 1 -
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Empresas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla (EPNB)
Guarantor:       Republic of Colombia.
Amount:          US$24.0 million equivalent.
Terms:           17 years, including a grace period of 4 years, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Description:     Sector.   The fiscal and external borrowing constraints
imposed by the Government's recently adopted macro-
economic   stabilization  and  reform  program  require
increased operating efficiency and internal resource
mobilization of utilities in the water supply and sewerage
sector if increased service coverage is to be achieved.
The Government is consequently now reexamining sector-wide
policies and institutional arrangements and increasingly
emphasizing projects which focus on cost-recovery, rehab-
ilitation of existing facilities, more selective invest-
ments in system expansions and improvements in the insti-
tutional and financial performance of sector companies.
Project. The proposed project would primarily support pro-
grams to (a) rehabilitate and extend water supply, sewer-
age and solid waste management facilities in Barranquilla,
Colombia's 4th largest city. About 70% of the beneficia-
ries of this program would reside in the city's lower
income areas; and (b) to promote the institutional devel-
opment of EPIB by strengthening its management, admin-
istration and operating efficiency.   Such improvements
should, in turn, restore the company's financial viabil-
ity, enabling EPMB, by 1989, to generate sufficient funds
from internal sources to finance a reasonable share of its
investment requirements.   The project would include the
provision of equipment, civil works and technical assist-
ance as well as consultant services for the preparation of
subsequent water and sewage system expansion to meet
demand in the 1990s.
Risks:           Project risks center primarily around potential disconti-
nuity of EPMB's management and insufficient political sup-
port at the municipal level to fully implement the finan-
cial rehabilitation and institutional development pro-
grams. To mitigate these risks, EPMB has already markedly
increased tariffs and taken steps to increase revenues and
stabilize operating costs. Technical assistance support,
legal covenants and close Bank supervision should further
lower the level of these risks.



-2-
Estimated Project Costs:
Foreign   Local   Total
- US$ million-
Water Supply                       7.7     8.0      15.7
Sewerage                          0.3      0.6      0.9
Solid Waste                       3.6      0.4      4.0
Institutional Improvement         1.8      1.9      3.7
Studies/Engineering               0.1      1.3       1.4
Incremental working capital       2.5      3.7      6.2
Base cost 1/2/                   16.0    15.9      31.9
Physical Contingencies             1.3     1.2      2.5
Price/Exch.Rate Contingencies    2.3       0.5      2.8
Total Project Cost               19.6    17.6      37.2
Interest during construction      4.4       -       4.4
Total Financing Required         24.0    17.6      41.6
Financing Plan:
EPMB Internal Cash Generation       -      9.9      9.9
FFDU                               -       3.4      3.4
Department of Atlantico            -       4.3      4.3
IBRD                             24.0       -      24.0
Total Financing                  24.0    17.6      41.6
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year
1986     1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
US$ Million
Annual                         1.5       8.7    6.4    4.2    2.3    0.9
Cumulative                     1.5      10.2   16.6   20.8   23.1   24.0
Rate of Return:       n.a.
1/ Includes about US$2.0 million of value-added tax.
2/ In June 1985 prices.



-3-
II. WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
The Setting
2.01      Colombia's population (28 million in 1983) is currently growing
at an annual rate of 2.1%, down from 3.0% in 1964, due primarily to a rapid
fertility decline since 1964.  The spatial distribution of the population
has also changed considerably in recent years. As a result of high rural-
urban migration, the share of the urban population has more than doubled,
increasing from 31% in 1938 to over 66% currently. The four largest cities
(Bogota, Cali, Medellin and Barranquilla), each with more than a million
residents, now account for about a half of the total urban population. The
population segments living in small (10,000-50,000) and intermediate-size
(50,000-500,000) cities, each account for about a quarter of the urban
population.
2.02        About 83% of Colombia's urban population has access to piped
water through house connections, and about 65% is served by a waterborne
sewerage system. In rural areas, about 18X of the population has access to
piped water and only about 10% adequate sanitation facilities.  Although
with these service levels, Colombia compares favorably with most middle-
income countries in the Region, the quality of service remains deficient,
particularly in poor urban neighborhoods and rural areas where water- and
sanitation-related diseases rank among the principal causes of illness and
death. Water pollution is rapidly becoming a major problem in rivers and
streams downstream of most large cities which discharge their sewage with-
out treatment.  In 1982, infant mortality, which can be partially attri-
buted to poor water quality and sanitation conditions, was 54 in 1,000 live
births in Colombia, as compared with 27 in Chile, 39 in Venezuela, 44 in
Argentina and 53 in Mexico.
Sector Organization
2.03        The water supply and sewerage sector in Colombia is under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Public Health which, in coordination with
the National Planning Department, formulates national sectoral policies.
Two institutions, the National Institute of Urban Development (INSFOPAL)
and the National Institute of Health (INAS), are responsible for implement-
ing these policies in urban and rural3/ areas, respectively.   Both of
these institutions have central planning and supervisory functions and act
as financial channels for sectoral investments. The Urban Development Fund
(FFDU) of the Central Mortgage Bank is also providing increasing financing
for investments in the urban sector.  On the local level, different types
of institutions have responsibilities for constructing, maintaining and
operating water supply and sewerage service facilities.  In 28 principal
cities, where about 75% of Colombia's urban population is concentrated,
municipal public works companies (EPM's), independent from the Central
Government, are in charge of water and sewerage services, and in many
instances, also provide other municipal services, such as solid waste col-
lection and disposal.  In most smaller towns, water supply and sanitation
services are provided by Sanitation Works Companies over which INSFOPAL
exerts considerable influence. In rural areas, water and sanitation facil-
ities are built, operated and maintained by departmental offices of INAS in
coordination with the  beneficiary communities.   Water and solid waste
31 Communities with less than 2,500 inhabitants.



- 4 -
tariffs are controlled by the National Tariff Board which acts on proposals
submitted by operating companies.
Sector Performance and Prospects
2.04      The performance of most sector institutions on both the national
and local levels in Colombia leaves much room for improvement. Poor finan-
cial performance and weak management are the main Problems impeding effi-
cient operations and service expansions.  The combined effect of low tar-
iffs, poor comimiercial practices and fast-rising operating costs (mainly
personnel costs) have been the key obstacles to achieving financial viabil-
ity for many companies. Frequent and mostly politically motivated changes
in top- and middle-management positions and poor administrative, budgeting
and planning systems are generally at the heart of ineffective management.
These shortcomings, together with a general lack of a sufficiently trained
work force, manifest themselves in poor upkeep and inefficient operation of
many water supply and sewerage systems and in generally high levels of
unaccounted-for water.
2.05      Further, Central Government institutions have often not provided
the support and incentives needed by utilities at the local level to
improve their performance. In particular, INSFOPAL has generally not been
able to appropriately assert its technical and financial leadcrship roles
in the sector. In the past, the ready availability of grant funds from the
national treasury, one of the most important sources of finance particular-
ly for small- and medium-sized city companies, has effectively deferred the
need for utilities to improve their financial and operational performance.
2.06        The Government, under its plan for "development with equity,"
aims at providing adequate water and sanitation services tr. all its citi-
zens.  For 1990, it adopted coverage targets of 90% of the population for
water supply and 80% for sewerage for urban areas, and service levels of
40% f r water supply and 35% for sewerage for rural areas.  This would mean
reaching an additional 5.5 million people in urban areas and about 2 mil-
lion in rural areas. It would require annual investments of about US$400
million (excluding operation and maintenance costs and rehabilitation and
repair of existing facilities). The Government recognizes that maintenance
of this investment level, which is over three times the historic average
for the sector, will be a difficult task given the current weaknesses of
sector institutions and prevailing fiscal and borrowing constraints. Con-
sequently, and in light of its recently adopted macro-economic reform
program, the Government is currently reexamining sector policies and insti-
tutions, with particular emphasis on (a) adequate cost recovery, investment
and credit policies; (b) tariff policies based on financial and operating
criteria and the beneficiary's capacity to pay; (c) strengthening of utili-
ties through technical assistance programs, such as the FOREC program
developed by INSFOPAL under Loan 1726-CO; and (d) a stronger institutional
framework at the central level through which investment funds can be chan-
nelled and sector policies enforced.
Past Bank Experience in the Sector
2.07         Since 1968, the Bank has made 11 loans, totalling US$380.9
million, for water supply and sewerage development in Colombia.  The Bank



-5-
funds accounted for about 70% of the external loan amounts made available
to the sector. Eight loans, US$313.8 million in total, were made to EPM's
in Bogota, Cali, Palmira and Cucuta. By far the largest borrower has been
the Bogota Water and Sewerage Company to which the Bank has lent US$261
million in four operations, which have contributed to a total investment of
about US$800 million and a significant strengthening of the entity. Three
Bank loans, for a total amount of US$67.1 million, were made to INSFOPAL
for relending to local companies in support of 36 subprojects in 30
medium-size and small cities and towns.   In addition, INSFOPAL was the
channel used to finance water supply components of Bank-financed small
urban development projects. Several small rural water supply projects were
supported through INAS, as part of integrated agricultural development pro-
jects and nutrition improvement projects.
2.08       Most projects exnprienced lengthy delays in physical execution
and shortfalls in financial and institutional development goals.   Project
completion reports have been prepared for two projects,4/ and two others
have undergcne performance audits.5/ The audit reports have been critical
of overestimates of demand for water; delays in project execution which, in
an inflationary environment, resulted in cost overruns for most of the pro-
jects; and the borrowers' failure to raise water rates and to limit the
growth of operating costs sufficiently to comply with financial performance
targets.
2.09      Lessons learned from the implementation of earlier Bank projects
in Colombia have been taken into account in the preparation of subsequent
projects. Demand and financial projections are made using more conserva-
tive estimates of population growth and water consumption. More comprehen-
sive subsurface investigations are being required for tunnels and major
structures to minimize delaya and cost overruns after construction is in
progress.  More realistic implementation schedules are being adopted, and
projects are presented to the Board only when a substantial part of physi-
cal works is ready for bidding. More specific plans of action for finan-
cial and institutional reform and earlier discussion of them with the bor-
rower are also part of projects that have been undertaken recently.
Bank Sector Strategy
2.10          The Bank's current sector financing strategy distinguishes
between three major sector segments (large cities, small- and medium-sized
towns, rural areas), each of which cover about one-third of Colombia's
total population. The strategy calls for continued lending on a selective
basis to the larger municipal companies which have demonstrated the will to
improve their standards of performance, and emphasizes lending for rehabil-
itation of existing facilities to permit improvements in operational effi-
ciency and more intensive use of water production capacity which is already
in place. The loans which the Bank made to Cucuta (Loan No. 2470-CO) and
Bogota (Loan No. 2512-CO) in FY85 were conceived as a part of this strat-
egy.  Cartagena, where project preparation work is now in progress, also
may benefit from direct Bank lending. The Inter-American Development Bank
4/ Loan 738-CO, Palmira Water Supply Project: Report No. 4589, June 1983;
Loan  1523-CO,  Second  Cali  Water  Supply  and  Sewerage  Project;
Report No. Sec. 85-029, December 1984.
5/ Loan 536-CO, Bogota Water Supply Project; Report No. 2003, March 1978;
Loan PU-30-CO, Cali Water Supply Project; Report No. 2638, August 1978.



- 6 -
is lending to two of Colombia's major cities (Medellin and Bucaramanga) and
may consider lending to Cali.  Direct lending to suitable municipal compa-
nies in major cities enables the Bank to assist the Covernment in its
efforts to extend water supply and sewerage services to large segments of
the population, particularly to the urban poor, at a minimum unit cost and
to support its efforts to upgrade the financial and operating performance
of the publ-ic sector.   The performance of the Bogota Water and Sewerage
Company, which the Bank first began assisting in 1968, and that of Medellin
attest to the fact that with persistent effort municipal companies have the
potential to develop into well-run, financially sound institutions.   The
proposed loan has been designed to help initiate a similar d_velopment pro-
cess in Barranoui'Lla.
2.11      Over the longer run, however, the Bank's aim is to progressively
support the sector's development in urban areas through intermediary
arrangements capable of providing full development banking services and
implementing sector policies. In spite of recent improvements in its per-
formance, INSFOPAL does not have the capacity to carry out such inter-
mediary functions. Current discussions within the Government (para. 2.06)
and with the Bank will, hopefully, lead to decisions on a set of institu-
tional and policy reforms forming the core of better intermediation for the
sector and which the Bank could support through a sector adjustment loan.
2.12      A rural water supply component costing US$16 million forms part
of the recently approved Health Project.   It provides the Bank with the
opportunity to support a modest investment program for rural water supply
systems and strengthen INAS, the specialized agency responsible for rural
water supply, through a technical assistance program and the preparation of
a National Rural Water Supply Plan.  This plan is expected to define more
accurately the needs and priorities in the rural subsector and develop an
investment strategy. Together with the experience acquired in working with
INAS, this project could help prepare the way for increased investments in
rural water supply, with Bank support.
III. THE CITY AND THE BORROWER
Water, Sewerage and Solid Waste Services in Barranquilla
3.01      Barranquilla, located on the Atlantic coast near the mouth of the
Magdalena River, is Colombia's fourth largest city with an estimated pres-
ent population of about 1.1 million and annual growth of about 3.5%.  As
the commercial center of Colombia's Atlantic Coast Region, the city
attracts migrants from rural areas, and is expected to continup ' do so
for the foreseeable future. Public services in Barranquilla are the lowest
in coverage and quality among Colombia's larger cities.   Most of these
services are provided by Empresas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla
(EPMB), an autonomous municipal company.
3.02      EPMB's water supply facilities  serve about 600,000 people (half
of the city's total population) through about 80,000 residential house con-
nections. An additional 5,000 connections provide water to industrial and
commercial enterprises.  EPMB estimates that about 150,000 persons receive



water through illegal connections.   The remaining population, Barranrui-
lla's poorest who live predominantly in the southwestern part of the ci.ty,
purchases water from private vendors.
3.03      Barranquilla's water source is the Magdalena River.  Water deliv-
ery to the city is accomplished through a system of storage/pumping facil-
ities running in a southwesterly direction along an axis formed by the
Treatment Plant El Recreo-Las Delicias-La Mina (IBRD Map 19047). The sys-
tem's high point is at La Mina, located about 70m above the Magdalena River
level.  This system has major shortcomings.  Ini particular, the transmis-
sion capacity is insufficient to deliver the additional production from a
new treatment plant (para. 3.05) to the southwestern part of the city where
most of the future urban development is expected to take place. Consult-
ants to EPHB have identified a long-term water transmission strategy whose
main feature is to gradually establish a second transmission system along a
southwest axis (Treatment Plant Ciudadela 20 de Julio-Carizal) and to bring
about the general rehabilitation of the El Recreo-Las Delicias-La Mina sys-
tem.  The proposed project would finance part of the first stage of this
strategy, with the remaining works to be executed in the 1990s.
3.04      The water system is generally in a very poor state of maintenance
and repair. In April 1985, this was illustrated dramatically when a pump
for transmitting treated water failed, paralyzing most of Barranquilla's
water system and leaving some 400,000 of EPMB's customers without water for
almost 4 days.   A similar water emergency was experienced in June 1985.
EPMB's actempts to alleviate this crisis by better distributing the exist-
ing pumping capacity were seriously hampered because many of the system's
key valves were inoperable. The proposed project would consequently focus
on the rehabilitation of the most deteriorated parts of the system,
reequipping of existing pumping stations and repairing of treatment plants
and transmission, storage and distribution facilities to reduce the risks
of future breakdowns and increase the system's efficiency.
3.05      Extensive leakage, a great many illegal connections, and the vir-
tual absence of consumption metering are responsible for a high level of
unaccounted-for water rate (about 45% of total production). Lack of meters
and the tropical climate encourage high water use which is estimated at
about 300-350 I/cap/day.   Under these conditions, the capacity of EPMB's
facilities is not even sufficient to meet the demand cf those connected,
and rationing is therefore widespread.   However, EPMB is constructing a
fifth treatment plant (Planta No. 5) which, when completed in early 1986,
will boost total net water production capacity by 2.25 m3/sec to about 6.5
m3/s  (205 million m3/year).   Taking Into account expected significant
decreases in average per capita consumption (due to extension of service to
lower-income neighborhoods which generally consume less), and in physical
water losses to be achieved under the proposed project, EPMB's water pro-
duction capacity is expected to be sufficient to satisfy Barranquilla's
water demand until the early 1990s (Annex 1).  The proposed project would
finance investments in additional transmission and storage capacity which
is now insufficient to deliver the additional production from the new
treatment plant, to the low income southwestern part of the city.
3.06       EPMB has about 80,000 registered sewer connections (48% service
coverage level). The present system is severely overloaded, creating over-
flow of sewage in some sections of town.   EPMB forecasts the addition



- 8 -
of another 40,000 connections by 1990, which would increase the service
level to about 58% of the population.  Many of the additional connections
already exist but reed to be registered.   The proposed project would
include the expansion of the capacity of three interceptors designed to
eliminate sewage overflows in some crucial downtown areas. It would also,
through technical assistance, support a program to register existing con-
nections.
3.07      SPMB has traditionally provided door-to-door collection of solid
waste to about half of Barranquilla's population. Recently, however, col-
lection efficiency and service quality have dropped dramatically as EPHB's
equipment, because of age and deficient maintenance practices, is becoming
obsolete. Solid waste management in public markets is very poor and there
is no organized collection of solid waste in the poor neighborhoods at
all. Unccntrolled dumping of waste in vacant lots has become increasingly
a public health problem in many parts of the city.   Likewisa the city's
waste dump is poorly controlled and a growing health hazard.  To address
the most urgent needs of EPMB's solid waste operation, the proposed project
would, following the recommendations made by a Bank-supported solid waste
study, finance the purchase of much needed equipment and vehicles to
upgrade and extend collections, and technical assistance to improve equip-
ment maintenance and to introduce more sanitary waste disPosal practices.
The Borrower/Implementing Agency
3.08      The borrower and project executing agency would be EPMB, an auto-
no&ious municipal agency responsible for the following services:   water,
sewerage, solid waste collection and disposal, street cleaning, park main-
tenance, public markets and a zoological park. The Mayor of Barranquilla
serves as the Chairman of EPHB's Board, which includes representatives of
the city's main political and civic groups.   EPMB's General Manager is
appointed by the Mayor. The Company derives its revenues from tariffs and
user fteq (water, sewerage, solid waste, markets, zoo) and municipal pro-
perty taxes, 95% of which the Municipal Council has assigned to EPMB
towards covering the costs of providing services other than water supply
and s2werage.
3.09        EPMB is a weak and inefficient institution (Annex 2).  It is
heavily overstaffed (1,600 employees in total, about 780 for water and sew-
erage, i.e. about 8 per 1,000 water connections). General managers change
frequently, staying in post on average about 1.5 years.   The quality of
staff is generally deficient.   Experience and talent in management posi-
tions is rare since poor remuneration, job instability, lack of career
prospects, and EPMB's poor overall performance deter many qualified indivi-
duals from working at EPMB. Strong trade unions oppose improved efficiency
and have been successful in securing expensive compensation packages.
Administrative and financial systems are weak and do not permit adequate
management control. Lack of equipment, trained staff and procedures hinder
the systematic maintenance and operation of EPMB's facilities. Because of
its inability to provide acceptable services in an efficient manner, EPMB's
image in Barranquilla is poor.
3.10       In recent years, EPMB experienced substantial consolidated oper-
ating and cash deficits.   EPMB's water and sewerage operations, which



- 9 -
traditionally have been the company's strongest performer, were partly
responsible. The main source, however, has been solid waste services where
cash deficits totalled C$256 million (US$3.2 million equivalent) in 1983
and C$400 million (US$4.0 million equivalent) in 1984.   These deficits
resulted primarily because municipal property taxes, frozen between 1979
and 1984, were insufficient to cover the operating deficits incurred by
these services. Inadequate water and sewerage tariff levels, poor collec-
tion of accounts and excessive operating costs have also contributed to
EPMB's poor overall financial performance. EPMB's cash deficits have been
financed mainly by commercial bank overdrafts and by a large increase in
arrears to suppliers and creditors; primarily the electric company, the
National Social Security Agency and INSFOPAL. The accumulated overdue debt
owed to these institutions is currently about Col$1100 million (US$8.1
equivalent). During the last four years, EPMB's only major investment was
the construction of a new water treatment plant (Planta No. 5) costing
about US$12 million.
Irevious Bank Lending to EPMB
3.11      EPMB was among the beneficiaries of Loan 1072-CO made to INSFOPAL
in 1972.  The loan proceeds allocated to EPMB were US$10.5 million.  The
Barranquilla sub-project was completed in i982 after considerable delay. A
project completion report for Lean 1072-CO is under preparation. EPMB was
unable to meet fully the rate of return covenant and other financial and
operational targets contained in the subsidiary Agreement with INSFOPAL
partly because various governments did not authorize the tariff levels
needed by EPMB.   Other shortcomings in the execution of the sub-project
under Loan '.072-CO can be attributed to EPMB's institutional weakness
(para. 3.09) and INSFOPAL's inability to provide sufficient supervision and
support.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
4.01       Feasibility studies completed under the Bank's purview in July
1983 by consultants to EPHE identified an investment program in water, sew-
erage, and solid waste with a total estimated base cost of about US$65 mil-
lion (1983 prices). However, it was evident from EPMB's inefficient opera-
tions and poor financial performance that the company could not support an
operation of this magnitude.  In August 1984, under the direction of a new
management, EPMB renewed discussions with the Bank and requested financing
for a smaller project emphasizing financial rehabilitation and institu-
tional development and the execution of only the most urgently needed
investments in water supply, sewerage, and solid waste. As a condition of
loan processing, EPMB subsequently identified and took initial key steps to
implement an institutional and financial recovery program agreed upon with



- 10 -
the Bank.   Particularly after the water emergency in April 1985 (para.
3.04), local authorities seem to be prepared to support EPMB's rehabilita-
tion efforts. They realize that drastic measures are necessary to reverse
the deterioration of public service in Barranquilla.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.02        The proposed Bank participation in the project stems from a
country strategy designed to support Colombia's efforts to promote socio-
economic investments substantially benefitting lower-income segments of the
population and to bring about better financial and institutional perform
ance of public sector entities. For Barranquilla in particular, the Bank
would, among other things, help to ensure an effective project design for
the vital institutional development program for EPME and provide the
reinforcing incentives and conditionality needed for EPMB's management to
impleme..  the program.   These are presently beyond the capabilities of
local institutions to undertake alone.
ProJect Dbjectives
4.03      The proposed project would address the urgent need to restore and
extend acceptable water, sewerage and solid waste services to Barranqui-
lla's population and to bring about financial strengthening and institu-
tional development of EPMB. Its immediate objectives would be to:
(a)  Service rehabilitation and expansion program:   (i) restore
the most deteriorated parts of the water system; (ii) expand
service to low-income neighborhoods in the southwest part of
the city so as to increase water supply coverage from a cur-
rent 50% to about 95X by 1990 (75% through house connections
and 20% by public standpipes); (iii) eliminate sewerage
overflows in some key downtown areas and residential neigh-
borhoods through the expansion of collector capacity; and
tiv) reestablish regular door-to-door solid waste collection
services to about 50% of the city's area and establish pro-
per waste management services for public markets and
presently unserved poor neighborhoods and make the final
disposal of wastes more sanitary; and
(b)  Financial and institutional program:   (i) improve EPMB's
financial performance such that the company would be able to
finance by 1989 about one-third of its investment needs from
internal generation; (ii) increase the operating efficiency
of all EPMB's services, and for water, reduce unaccounted-
for water from the currently estimated 45% to about 32% by
[991 and stabilize the cost per m3 of water sold at Its
present level in real terms through 1990; and (iii)
establish an adequate capacity for maintenance of EPMB's
equipment and facilities.
4.04        The successful execution of the service rehabilitation and the
financial and institutional strengthening programs would put EPMB in a bet-
ter position to undertake the larger investments which will be needed in
the 1990s to provide in Barranquilla water, sewerage and solid waste ser-
vice levels comparable to those in other large Colombian cities. The proj-
ect thus would include engineering services to prepare studies for this
next phase.



- 11 -
Project Description
4.05         The proposed project would include the following components
(Annex 3):
(a) Water Supply. Construction of transmission mains (about 11
Km), a storage tank (10,000 m3), reequipment of pumping sta-
tions, repair and improvement of treatment plant facilities
(leak detection and repair), rehabilitation and expansion of
the water delivery system in the southwestern zone, includ-
ing the construction of about 50 public standpipes, the pur-
chase of about 40,000 and installation of about 70,000 water
meters and of about 20,000 house connections;
(b) Sewerage. Capacity expansion of three sewage collectors;
(c)  Solid Waste.   Purchase of about 25 collection trucks, 3
street sweepers, 2 front loaders, 2 bulldozers, 3 lifting
trucks and various containers and tools and spare parts for
the repair shop;
(d)  Institutional Improvement.   Purchase of vehicles and equip-
ment, training of EPMB's staff and management, and technical
assistance to improve existing or implement new systems and
procedures  in  the  following areas:    Ci) management and
organization; (ii) accounting and budgeting; (iii) personnel
management and staff training; (iv) commercial activities;
(v) metershop; (vi) purchasing and inventory management;
(vii) maintenance and operation; (viii) rehabilitation
transmission system, including leak detection and repair;
(ix) water treatment plant operation; (x) unaccounted-for
water control; and (xi) solid waste operation (increase in
collection efficiency, more sanitary final disposal of
waste, establishment of adequate equipment repair and
maintenance capabilities);
(e)  Engineering Services.   Supervision of construction, survey
of existing network conditions and preparation of a rehabil-
itation and service expansion plan in the southwestern zone,
an update of existing feasibility studies and the prepara-
tion of designs and bidding documents for the next stage of
water and sewerage investments, and a solid waste study to
define a cost-effective and environmentally acceptable
long-term solution to the final disposal of solid waste; and
(f)  Incremental Working Capital.   A contribution of US$2.5 mil-
lion to be disbursed against chemicals and spare parts pur-
chases between March 1, 1985 and December 31, 1987 to cover
EPMB's needs for increased working capital resulting from
the project.



- 12 -
Project Cost and Financing
4.06       The total cost of the proposed project (including $4.4 million
for interest during construction and US$6.2 million for incremental working
capital) is estimated at US$41.6 million equivalent, of which 58% or $24.0
million is foreign exchange (Table 1).  The local cost component of $17.6
million equivalent includes about US$2.0 million equivalent of taxes
charged against the purchase of equipment and materials and foreign con-
sultants' fees which the Bank would not finance. The base cost, expressed
in June 1985 prices, is US$31.9 million. Physical contingencies are calcu-
lated to be about 10%.  Price and Col$ devaluation contingencies, equival-
ent to about 8% of the sum of base cost and physical contingencies, were
included assuming that local inflation varies from 22% in 1985 to 18% in
1990 and international inflation of 5% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986 and of 8%
through 1991.
4.07      The project's financing plan is shown below:
Amount
Source of Financing                US$Million        X of Total
EPMB                                    9.9              23.8
- for incremental
working capital                     3.7               8.9
- contribution to investment          6.2              14.9
FFDU                                    3.4               8.2
Department of Atlantico                 4.3              10.3
IBRD                                  24.0               57.7
41.6             100.0
4.03        The Bank would provide US$24.0 million or about 58% of total
financing required. It would support the foreign exchange cost of the pro-
ject's investments totalling US$17.1 million, interest on its loan during
the grace period up to a maximum of US$4.4 million, and US$2.5 million
towards covering EPMB's incremental permanent working capital needs. The
financing plan also includes a loan of US$3.4 million from FFDU, which has
already been contracted, to support initial project costs during 1985 and
1986 and includes a grant from the Department of Atlantico totalling US$4.3
million equivalent from the proceeds of an FFDU loan which the Department
is currently negotiating.   At negotiations the Department of Atlantico
presented a letter of intent which indicates that the grant funds referred
to above would be made  available  in a timely manner.   EPMB provided
assurances at negotiations, that it would, by no later than January 31,
1986, enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with the
Department regarding the provision of these funds. EPMB would contribute a
total of US$9.9 million from internal cash generation.   Of these funds,
about US$3.7 million would be needed to meet incremental working capital
needs and about US$6.2 million would be for investments to be made
available beginning in 1987 when EPMB's financial position is expected to
have sufficiently improved.  FFDU, at negotiations, provided EPHB and the
Bank with a letter indicating its intent to cover any shortfalls of
investment funds with an additional loan.



OXLtMIA
PROFOSED BABRM  MOR SPY PME
Table 1: Project Cost Estlmtes
Fbreigi      Ibtal
Foreigi  Lcal  Total        Foreign  Local  Total         as % of      as % of
Part       t                                               (Col$ uillions)                (US$ mllions)          Total a/    Base  a/
A.        Water Supply                                 1042     1076    2118         7.7      8.0    15.7         49.2         49.0
B.        Sewerage                                      38        86     124         0.3      0.6      0.9        30.4          2.9
C.        Solid Waste                                  481        59     540         3.6      0.4      4.0        89.0         12.5
D.        Institutional Improvement                    243       260     503         1.8       1.9     3.7        48.3         11.7
E.        Studies/Engineering
Services                                    22      174      196         0.1      1.3     1.4         11.0          4.5
F.        Incresmntal Working Chpital b/
(chemicals and spare parts)                337      499     836          2.5      3.7     6.2        40.3
Base Cost (mid-1985 price snd
exchange rate levels)                     2163     2154    4317         16.0     15.9    31.9         50.2        100.0
Physical Qbmtingencies                       181      166      347         1.3      1.2     2.5         52.0          8.0
Price Contingencies                         1554     1070    2624          2.3      0.5     2.8          8.5          8.5
Total Project Cost                          3898     3390    7288         19.6     17.6    37.2         52.7        116.6
al Based on project Cost in US$
b/  Includes all cntingencies



- 14 -
Project Implementation
4.09       Project implementation would take place over six years with comr-
pletion expected by mid-1991.   Given the nature of the project and its
advanced degree of preparation and bidding, six years is a reasonable time
allotment.   Project implementation has already started with EPMB having
signed contracts for the FFDU-financed purchase of pipes and 20,000 water
meters. Contracts for the two major civil works components covered under
the project (the installation of transmission mains and the construction of
the storage tank) have already been awarded.   The timetable for project
implementation (Annexes 5 and 6) calls for other important bidding (pumps,
water meters, equipment) to be initiated in early 1986.  In light of this
contracting schedule and the financing of chemicals and spare parts,
retroactive financing not to exceed US$2.0 million  is recommended  for
project expenditures made after March 1, 1985.
4.10       Continuity of EPMB's management and of its policies is vital to
the rehabilitation process and to the success of the project. To this end,
assurances were obtained from EPMB during negotiations that it would main-
tain continuity and a minimum of turnover in the management of the company
and assure a satisfactory level of competence of its management staff. The
government provided assurances that it would take actions required to
maintain management continuity and competence.
4.11       During negotiations, draft terms of reference for the technical
assistance program were reviewed and agreement was reached on the objec-
tives and scope of the program and a plan of action for its implementation
(Annex 7). The program would be executed mainly by local consultants who
would bring in foreign expertise for specialized assignments. The program
would be executed in three phases.  Phase 1 would involve a comprehensive
assessment of EPHB's organizational structure and its systems, procedures
and practices.   Based on the results of Phase 1, the consultants would,
during Phase 2, develop a detailed plan of action for the institutional
strengthening efforts to be carried out under the project. This plan would
provide proposals on how individual systems would be improved and define
the detailed level of effort required.  After EPMB and Bank agreement on
the plan of action, it would be implemented under intensive Bank supervi-
sion during Phase 3.  The following timeframe (Annex 7) was agreed to dur-
ing negotiations: signing of contract with selected consultants by June 30,
1986; completion of phases 1 and 2 by no later than October 30, 1986 and
February 28, 1987, respectively; and completion of the institutional
strengthening program by no later than December 31, 1988. The signature of
contracts with the technical assistance consultants would be a condition of
disbursements for all Loan categories other than that for working capital.
This condition would provide the Bank with the needed leverage to ensure
the prompt hiring of consultants for technical assistance while helping
EPMB in its efforts to improve its working capital position. Responsibil-
ity for the administration of the institutional strengthening program would
rest with EPMB's Planning Department under the direct supervision of the
General Manager.   Assurances were obtained from EPMB during negotiations
that it would maintain a unit in its Planning Department, with staff and
functions acceptable to the Bank, to coordinate the institutional develop-
ment program.
4.12         Construction activities financed under the project would be
supervised by engineering consultants under the direction of EPMB's Con-
struction Supervision Department.   As with the above-mentioned technical



- 15 -
assistant component, the signing of a contract for construction supervision
with consultants satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of disburse-
ment from all Loan categories other than that for working capital.
4.13      The public standpipe network in the southwestern part of the city
would be constructed in close coordination with neighborhood leadership
organizations known as Junta de Accion Comunal (JAC).  Many of the JACs
have already indicated their desire to work with EPMB in selecting stand-
pipe locations and help EPMB in maintaining and operating standpipes and
collecting payments for water consumed.  Each standpipe would be metered.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, as a condition for pro-
viding water through standpipes to a neighborhood, EPMB would enter into
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with JAC's assigning them respons-
ibility for selection of locations for and proper maintenance of standpipes
and establishing a mechanism for the collection of payment on EPMB's behalf
for water consumed.
Procurement
4.14        Procurement arrangements are detailed in Annex 8.  Contracts
awarded under the proposed project through international competitive bid-
ding procedures would account for about 50% of total project costs.  CoL-
tracts for most equipment are expected to be won by foreign manufacturers
while those for pipes, accessories and civil works are likely to be awarded
to local firms. Qualifying domestic suppliers would be given a preference
in bid evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f. bid price or the applicable import
duty, whichever is lower.  Consulting services under parts (d) and (e) of
the project (para. 4.05) are estimated to require a total of about 500
man-months of professional services about 90% of which would be provided by
local consultants.
4.15        Civil works contracts larger than US$1 million equivalent and
goods contracts larger than US$50,000 equivalent would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB).   Local procedures, reviewed and
accepted by the Bank, would be used to award contracts with estimated costs
below these limits.   Open bidding would be used for contracts between
US$10,000 and US$50,000 and local shopping based on price quotations from
at least three qualified local bidders for contracts of less than
US$10,000.  The installation of water meters and house connections would be
contracted directly by work orders to pre-qualified contractors at unit
prices established by EPMB.  Individual work orders would be limited to a
ceiling of US$20,000 equivalent. Spare parts and chemicals, financed under
the working capital component, would be procured through local shopping
procedures (quotation by at least three suppliers) and by directly nego-
tiated purchase from one supplier for chlorine pro- ducts. The limits for
prior review of bidding documents by the Bank (US$50,000 equivalent for
equipment/material contracts and US$500,000 equivalent for civil works con-
tracts) would result in a coverage of about 90% of the total estimated
value of goods contracts and about 50% of civil works contracts.   The
Government provided assurances at negotiations that import licenses for
Bank-financed and other goods purchased under the project would be issued
promptly by the Instituto de Comercia Exterior (INCOMEX).



- 16 -
Disbursements
4.16      The Bank loan would be disbursed against (Annex 9):
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for all direct imports; 40% of
local expenditures for imported equipment and materials pro-
cured locally and 40% of ex-factory cost of locally manu-
factured goods;
(b) 40% of total cost for expenditures for the purchase of spare
parts and chemicals purchased after March 1, 1985 and before
December 31, 1987 up to a maximum of US$2.5 million equiv-
alent;
(c) 40% of total expenditures for civil works;
(d) 100% of total expenditures for consulting services and
training under the institutional development component;
(para 4.05(d));
Ce) 40% of total expenditures for consultants for engineering
services (para 4.05(e)); and
(f) amounts due for interest on the Bank's loan up to a maximum
of US$4.4 million.
4.17      For contracts whose value is less than US$20,000 equivalent, dis-
bursement would be against statement of expenditures certified by EPMB.
Documentation for these e-penditures will not be submitted to the Bank, but
would be retained by EPMB for periodic inspection by Bank staff. In order
to expedite project execution, a Special Account would be opened in
Colombia's Central Bank with an initial deposit of up to US$2.0 million
made into it through one or more withdrawals.
4.18        The closing date of the loan would be December 31, 1991.  The
disbursement schedule for the project (Annex 10) is thus based on a 6.0
year disbursement period which is about 2.0 years shorter than the standard
disbursement profile for sector projects in Colombia.   The proposed dis-
bursement period is reasonable, as the scope of the proposed project is
different from those used to determine the historic profile.  The project
does not include large and complicated civil works, which have been the
main reason for delays in the execution of past projects. More than 70% of
the loan amount is reserved for the purchase of equipment and financing of
chemicals and spare parts. These items will have to be acquired during the
first two years of project execution, considering that the basic objective
of the project is to prevent the imminent collapse of water and solid waste
services in Barranquilla and to assist EPMB in its institutional and opera-
tional rehabilitation.   The most time-consuming activity to be financed
under the project would be the technical assistance component, which given
the high priority of this work, must be completed during the first four
years, if the project's basic objective is to be met at all.   Another



- 17 -
feature setting the proposed project apart from water supply projects
appraised in the 1970s is the advanced degree of project preparation. With
few exceptions, bidding documents would be ready by negotiations and the
majority of biddings would be well on its way by mid-1986 (Annex 5).
Making the hiring of consultants for the technical assistance program a
condition for the disbursement of about 90% of loan funds, is designed to
get the most delay-prone project component underway promptly.
EPMB's Financial Prospects
4.19          Measures taken since late 1984 under the recovery program
(para. 4.01) in five main problem areas have markedly improved EPMB's
financial prospects. Operating costs are being stabilized with the dismis-
sal so far of some 150 personnel performing redundant tasks and through the
strict control of overtime. An aggressive campaign has been mounted to con-
nect and bill unregistered customers and to collect past due accounts,
which, has to date, resulted in a 20% increase in monthly collections for
water supply and sewerage services. Costs of the public markets have been
brought within related revenues by cutting expenditures and collecting pay-
ment arrears.   Rescheduling by EPMB of past due debt owed to its major
domestic creditors is being negotiated with the participation of the
central government and is expected to be concluded in early 1986.   And
finally, EPMB obtained from the National Tariff Board in May 1985 and
implemented in July 1985 an effective aggregate increase of about 10% in
its water tariffs above the 1.8% increase per month already in effect and
is the main beneficiary of a nearly 250% increase in municipal property
taxes effected earlier by the ?-lunicipal Council of Barranquilla.
4.20        While these measures will help EPMB to attain a balanced cash
flow in 1985, the company will have to continue to take stringent financial
adjustment measures over the project implementation period, if it "s to
consolidate its financial performance and to generate internal funds suffi-
cient to cover a reasonable share of its investment needs.   The most
important measures would include a substantial increase in solid waste
tariffs (a request for a 100% increase is being prepared for presentation
to JNT before Jaauary 31, 1986); the continuation of tariff adjustments for
water supply, sewerage, and solid waste services and increases in the allo-
cation of municipal property taxes approximately in line with average
domestic inflation rates; tight control over operating costs, especially
for personnel; and strict limitations on capital expenditures for invest-
ments outside of the project scope and the incurrence of long-term debt.
To help ensure that these measures are achieved, assurances were obtained
during negotiations from EPMB that it would:
(a) for its water and sewerage operations, maintain tariffs and
other charges sufficient to cover operating expenses, work-
ing capital needs, debt service payments, including r2sched-
uled payments to creditors, and contributions of not less
than 10% of capital expenditures starting for 1987, increas-
ing gradually to 30% for 1989 and remaining at this level
thereafter;



- 18 -
(b) for its consolidated operations, take all actions necessary
including changes in tariffs and other ca-rges, and munici-
pal property taxes, to obtain reven.,es sufficient to cover
operating expenses, debt service charges, including resched-
ule payments to creditors, working capital needs, and con-
tributions not less than 1OZ of capital expenditures start-
ing for 1987, increasing gradually to 30% for 1989 and
remaining at this level thereafter;
(c) obtain agreement from the Bank before incurring any addi-
tional long-term debt or undertaking any capital expendi-
tures in excess of US$200,000 equivalent per year (the maxi-
mum levels of annual capital expenditures and related debt
are expected to be increased in the latter years of project
execution (1989-91) when EPMB's financial position has
improved sufficiently to allow the company to undertake
additional major investments for system expansion); and
(d)  refinance its overdue debt with -Aijor creditors and to that
effect conclude, as a conditiojn of effectiveness of the
loan, contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with
major creditors and thereafter pay its debt obligations as
rescheduled.
4.21        In the past few years, its weak financial position has forced
EPMB to pledge a portion of its collections from tariffs and municipal pro-
perty taxes to commercial Banks to secure short- and long-term loans.
Long-term loans secured by pledged collections would total about US$13 mil-
lion. During project execution, the level of pledged collections required
to repay these long-term borrowings is expected to decline gradually from
about 20% of EPMBts total collections at present to less than 6% by 1990.
Since this level is modest and will not jeopardize project execution and
EPMB's ability to service the proposed Bank loan, the Bank should accept
the existing pledges without requesting pari passu treatment.   Daring
negotiations EPMB agreed that long-term loans secured by pledges would be
repaid as they become due and that no further pledges conflicting with the
Bank's negative pledge clause would be made following loan signing. As to
short-term debt secured by pledges, the proceeds from the working capital
component of the Bank loan and additional revenues to be generated during
project implementation are expected to permit EPMB to meet its future
working capital requirements with a minimum of such pledging. EPMB agreed
during negotiations that the proportion of collections pledged to repay
short-term debt would not exceed 5% from 1986.
4.22       The success of the financial recovery of EPMB, as portrayed in
the financial projections (Annex 11), is predicated on decisive improve-
ments in EPMB's operational performLnce.  To help meet projected revenues
and cost levels, assurances were obtained from EPMB during negotiations
that it would take all actions necessary to attain several key performance
targets agreed upon with the Bank (Annex 12) and jointly to be revised from
time to time as required.  Among the most important of these targets are:
increasing the number of new water connections from about 97,000 in 1985 to
about 160,000 in 1990, improving the proportion of billings and property
taxes collected from about 70% in 1985 to 90% in 1990; reducing the level
of unaccounted-for water from the present 44% to 34% by 1990; reducing the
employees' 1,000 water connections ratio from the present 8 to 6.7 by 1986;
and increasing the proportion of connections equipped with working meters
from a current 20% to about 55% by 1990.



- 19 -
4.23       In order to allow proper monitoring of its financial condition,
investment program and performance targets by the Bank (Annex 12), EPMB
provided assurances at negotiations that it would (a) furnish to the Bank
before October 31 of each year for its review and comment, an investment
plan, financial projections for the current year and the following three
years; (b) propose measures, including adjustments to tariffs and other
sources of revenues and operational measures, to maintain compliance with
the financial covenants and to meet performance targets; and (c) conduct
similar reviews following any event that would cause its total operating
costs to increase at a rate in excess of the increase in the consumer price
index for a corresponding period.
Changes in Service Responsibility
4.24       In the past, EPMB's overall financial performance has suffered
from deficits in services other than water and sewerage. On several occa-
sions, EPMB has attempted unsuccessfully to divest itself of the zoo and
public market services.   The recent increase in property tax levels and
EPMB's improved performance in collecting more user fees (the market is
expected to pay for itself in 1985) have made the financial condition of
these services less critical. At this time, the transfer of the zoo, mar-
ket and park maintenance services is not vital to the success of the proj-
ect, since the costs associated with these services are small compared to
those with the water and sewerage operations.   Nevertheless, EPMB should
continue to explore the possibilities of divesting itself of these ser-
vices.   If EPMB is to continue to provide services other than water and
sewerage, it must continue to receive an adequate allocation of municipal
property taxes to cover operational deficit ir these services.  Any deci-
sion by Barranquilla's Municipal Council that would deny EPMB the use of
prcperty tax revenues as needed would be an event for appropriate Bank
action, including suspension of disbursements.
4.25        Any changes regarding the solid waste operation would have a
decisive influence on EPMB's financial position. The transfer of this ser-
vice from EPMB to a new municipal entity or the contracting out of waste
collection in some parts of the city, which, at various times, has been
proposed by some of Barranquilla's political groups, would have to be car-
ried out under terms which would not jeopardize EPMB's overall financial
position. Most importantly, any such decision would have to consider the
future of the 600 workers currently on EPMB's solid waste service payroll.
The technical assistance program financed under the project would inter
alia analyze the institutional, financial, technical and legal implications
of changes in i:,stitutional arrangements regarding solid waste.   If EPMB
decides on any changes of its responsibilities regarding solid waste or any
other of its present services, terms and conditions of any such changes
should be subject to the Bank's agreement. Assurances to this effect were
obtained from EPMB during negotiations.



- 20 -
Auditing
4.26      During negotiations assurances were obtained that EPHB would have
its financial statements for water supply and sewerage operations, for
other services and for consolidated operations, the Special Account, and
statement of expenditures audited by independent auditors satisfactory to
the Bank, and that the auditors' report would be sent to the Bank no later
than six months after the close of FY1985 and 1986 and no later than 4
months after the close of subsequent years.
Reporting
4.27       EPMB would submit to the Bank semi-annual reports (due February
28 and August 31 for preceding semesters ending December 31 .nd June 30,
respectively) on the progress of project implementation and its operating
and financial performance. A completion report would be prepared by EPMB
and submitted to the Bank no later then six months after the closing date
of the Bank Loan. Assurances to this effect were obtained from EPMB during
negotiations.
Project Justification, Benefits and Affordability
4.28      Most of the proposed investments (more than 80%) would be used to
repair, rehabilitate and replace existing systems, facilities and equipment
and to assist EPMB's efforts for institutional and financial reform. The
proposed investments for system expansions are an integral part of the
long-term, least-cost solution for expanding Barranquilla's water supply
and sewerage systems.   The benefits to be derived from the project are
difficult to quantify realistically and therefore specific economic and
financial rates of return have not been calculated.   Nevertheless, the
benefits of the project are believed to be substantial and would provide a
high return on the investment. These benefits become apparent by examining
the consequences of not doing the project:
(a) failure to repair or replace important system components (pumps,
valves, pipes, etc.) would lead to their continued and progres-
sive deterioration and increase the probability of the occurrence
of serious service interruptions like those that occurred in
April and June 1985;
(b)  EPKB's  financial performance and  institutional strength would
deteriorate further and not allow the company to maintain even
present service levels and quality. Under these circumstances it
would be impossible for EPMB to reach the institutional and
financial  strength  required  to  carry  out  the  medium-  and
long-term investments necessary to bring service levels and
quality in Barranquilla up to the standards found in most other
Colombian cities;
(c) the irregular supply of water, now experienced to some degree by
almost all of Barranquilla's inhabitants, would continue and pro-
gressively become more prevalent throughout the city;
(d) the collection of solid waste and its disposal would decline
further and become an increasingly serious public health
concern; and



- 21 -
(e) an estimated 400,000 people, almost exclusively belonging to the
urban poor, would have to continue to purchase water of sometimes
uncertain quality from private vendors at high prices.
4.29       All of Barranquilla's population would benefit from the project.
To those already connected to the water system, safe water would become
available on a 24-hour basis. By 1991, a total of about 600,000 additional
people would be served.  About 400,000 of the beneficiaries would live in
the southwestern zone which today has no piped water supply.   To about
100,000 of them, regular service through house connections would be
reestablished (the area had a functioning distribution system about 10-15
years ago) and 300,000 would receive a safer and less expensive supply
through public standpipes.   Of the 600,000 direct beneficiaries of the
project, about 400,000 (65%), would belong to the urban poor. The invest-
ments in solid waste would allow EPMB to reinstate regular door-to-door
service to some 50% of Barranquilla's population, put in place a regular
clean-up system around public markets, initiate solid waste removal in some
of the city's poor neighborhoods and make final disposal practices more
sanitary.   These investments would remove the public health hazard now
created by the indiscriminate dumping of waste in empty lots and bring
about the sanitary disposal of waste.
4.30      The new tariff structure recently approved by JNT (Annex 13) pro-
motes both social equity and water conservation.   A family belonging to
Barranquilla's lowest income group would pay about Col$100 for a life line
supply of 10 m3/month. A family belonging to the higher category would pay
Col$670 for the same volume of consumption. Even when a sewerage surcharge
(50% of water billed) is added, these charges are well within the poor peo-
ple's  capacity  to  pay.    At  an  estimated  average  monthly  income  of
Col$10,000/family, a poor family would not spend more than 1% of its income
for water  and  sewerage  services.    Likewise,  a  connection  charge  of
Col$9,000 (about US$66 equivalent) for consumers belonging to the lowest-
income group is affordable.
4.31       The new tariff provides incentives for water conservation, since
the charge for consumption above 30 m3/month is quite progressive and
charges for unmetered connections are 25% higher than those for metered
connections.   The public standpipe service to be provided in the city's
southwestern part would significantly reduce the amount of family income
spent on water.   Today,  water  purchased from vendors can cost up to
Col$1200/family/month and for many families account for more more than 10%
of family income. Under the project, charges to be paid by public stand-
pipe users would be about Col$50 per month and more consistent with a poor
family's "inancial capacity to pay.
4.32       A simulation of billings shows that under the new tariff struc-
ture the average water tariff would be around Col $18/m3.   This rate is
comparable to that charged in Colombia's other large cities.  The lack of
reliable investment program for the medium and long term makes a meaningful
marginal cost analysis of water in Barranquilla difficult.   Nevertheless,
available data indicate that the long-term average incremental cost for
water in Barranquilla is in the range of Col$20/m3-Col$25/m3. The average
tariff under the new structure is thus close to marginal cost and charges
for high consumption are considerably higher than marginal cost.



- 22 -
Project Risks
4.33        Physical implementation of the proposed project carries little
risk as the works themselves are simple and straightforward. Considerable
risk exists, however, that the management continuity and political support
needed to sustain the financial and institutional program cannot be main-
tained.  A sensitivity analysis on the project demonstrates that a short-
fall of more than about 20% in reaching any of the performance targets for
tariff and tax increases, collection efficiency, operating costs, and the
number of new water connections would prevent EPMB from generating suffi-
cient internal funds to finance its investment program. However, the sub-
stantial measures already taken toward financial recovery as a condition of
loan processing reflect considerable willingness of the authorities so far
to take the difficult steps required to achieve EPMB's rehabilitation.
Assumptions underlying the rate of rehabilitation of EPMB in coming years
are also on the cautious side.   The technical assistance in support of
EPMB's rehabilitation, the regular joint reviews of agreed upon performance
targets, and back-up arrangements to ensure availability of EPMB's project
contribution (para. 4.08) should also help to yield an acceptable project
risk level given the dangers of further deterioration in services in
Barranquilla if the project were not undertaken.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01       During negotiations, assurances were be obtained from EPMB that
it would:
(a) enter into agreement with the Department of Atlantico
regarding the provision of grant funds for project-related
investments (para 4.08);
Cb) maintain management continuity and assure a high level of
staff competence (para. 4.10);
(c) maintain a competently staffed unit to coordinate the
implementation of the institutional development program
(para. 4.11);
(d) enter into arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank. with
community leadership organizations regarding the location
and maintenance of public standpipes and the collection of
charges for water consumed (para. 4.13);
(e) maintain financial self-sufficiency of its water and
sewerage services and its consolidated operations and
generate adequate funds for investment (para. 4.20);
(f) seek Bank agreement before incurring additional long-term
debt and undertaking capital expenditures (para. 4.20);



- 23 -
(g) pay its overdue debt in accordance with the repayment
schedule as agreed with major creditvrs (para. 4.20);
(h) reassess its financial and operational performance annually
and in consultatior with the Bank, propose measures to meet
financial covenants and performance targets (para. 4.23);
(i) make the terms and conditions of any change in EPMBt service
responsibilities   subject   to   the   1ank's   agreement
(para. 4.25'.
(j)  have its accounts audited annually by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.26); and
(k) adhere to report requirements (para. 4.27).
5.02       Assurances were obtained from the Government that it would: (a)
cause INCOMEX to grant impo-t licenses in a timely fashion (para. 4.15);
and (b) take all actions necessary to enable EPMB to maintain at EPMB
management continuity and competence.
5.03         A special condition of effectiveness would require EPMB to
sign contract for the refinancing of its overdue debt with major creditors
(para. 4.20).
5.04      A special condition of disbursement for all Loan categories other
than for working capital would be the signing of contracts with consultants
for the institutional development programs and for supervision of
construction (paras. 4.11 and 4.12).
5.05      Retroactive financing totalling US$2.0 million is recommended for
purchases, works and services procured in accordance with Bank guidelines
after March 1, 1985 (para. 4.09).
5.06       With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the pro-
posed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$24.0 million to be
repaid over a period of 17 years, including four years of grace.



- 24 -
M I
W    WMU E9a XWr
Pzulsctim  af Srv  TISm. SRI  ad Ptabtim
1963 1/     19  it      195       106        17        1968     1989      1990      11
OL pqul*t.on (00D) 2/                  1115        1157        L20i      1242       1216      1331      1377     1426     1476
hp-'ia -4m om 3/
prlbueiactgm (Z) 4/                   49          5D          53         59        66        73       77        78        71
per s.i-n   (Z)                       -           -           -         -          10        20       20        2D        20
per hams omsctl  (000) 4J            5S9         579         641        737       8W8       966      1055     1107      1151
pera dpl l()                          -           -           -         -         12        Z26 s     75       285       295
rm   of am _cm  (000) 5/              79.1        83.2        91.6      104.6     119.6      16    147.6    154.6    166
wx mactiaw (000)                       3.3         4.8        12.0       14.0      16.0      16.0      8.0       6.0       6.0
- sae p    umctm W3/mAxth) 6/    77.0                74.9        75.0      70.        6660      66.0     62.0      61.0     60.0
F  copits e  (1/day) 4/                 340         332         332       310        292        13      274       270      266
sta*de (.3/pem/maw) 7/                -           -           -                     1         1        1         1         1
_NMI maw anim   ( i3 aiU) 8/            73.1         74.8        SL4       87.9       96.3     16.9    113.1    116.o    119.2
;__a_ -fo   _  (Z)                      45          44           44        42        40         38       36        31       32
_sma m     piudmcio 3 mLum) 8/         132.9        133.6       147.1     151.6      160L5     172.4    176.7    176.7    175.3
ua1.Uad mapay (u3 mnia) /               132.4       13Z.4       166.0     2D4.8      2)6.8     2)L8    21.8       21%.8    2L.8
1/ Actual. remaining years projected.
Z/ Kid-year.
a/ Includes only the population served by regIstered connection; there ls a large number
of people (about 250.000) receiving service through fraudulent connections.
4/ Assuming 7.4 persona/connection.
3 Includes co erciallindustrial connections (ahout 5300 In 1984 and projected to grow
to about 6600 in 1991); projection of connections based on EPHB plan for registering
Illegal and new connections.
6/ Current sale per connection information is based on deficient data slnce only few
connectlons are actuafly metered; includes comuercial/industrial connections; reduc-
tion in average sale per connection based on annual projection by socio-economic
category; since future connections will predominantly be made to people belonging to
loser income categories. unit sales are expected to drop; also increased level of
metering and more progressive tariff structure will contribute to reduction in aver-
age sales per connection.   Projections are based on sketchy data and should be
reviewed In 1987/88 Vaen better data will be available and vater consumption patterns
will have adjusted to more regular service, increased level of metering and new
tarlff structure.
7/ Assuming 30 1/c/day.
8/ Average annual.



I       II   If   If  II    LI  j1       i1
01,l,xl ,li.,   11,1ll .lt Ii  !
,*,,'1 1   p }, [II i  ||['| i 9   i



-~~~~~~~~~~la 2~
AMINX 2
Attachment I
COLO1IA
ARRAIWQUILA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EIUP ExistlE Osanlzatlon
Board of Dlrectors
Ceneral
SeerJcarT
Inera                                         C-enral
Control ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ndtra
Yler onnel
|Planning |
Depart ;t 
Faceand        Systems       Administration       Water Supply and       Technical    ISolid Waste and
Accountig Dpt.         arnartmsut                     Swerge Opertion    Ia e                 Other Service



- 27 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPI-Y PROJECT
Project Description
1.           The proposed project would include an investment program to
expand and rehabilitate Barranquilla's water, sewerage, and solid waste
services and provide financing for a program of institutional rehabilita-
tion through consulting services, training of staff, and the purchase of
equipment.
2.        The following presents a list of main project components:
PART A:  Water SupplY
A.1.       Construction of transmission mains with a total length of about
11 km, including the connection between the existing treatment plant and
storage tank Ciudadela 20 de Julio;
A.2.      Purchase and installation of pumping equipment for the following
pumping stations:   Raw Water, Treated Water, Ciudadela 20 de Julio, El
Recreo and Las Delicias;
A.3.      Construction of storage tank Ciudadela 20 de julio with a capaci-
ty of about lO,O00m3;
A.4.       Purchase of about 40,000 water meters and meter shop equipment
and the installation of about 70,000 water meters;
A.5.      Installation of about 20,000 house connections;
A.6       Rehabilitation, repair and expansion of water distribution in the
southwestern part of the city, including the construction of about 50 pub-
lic stand pipes;
A.7.         Execution of a leak detection and repair, pressure zoning
improvement and transmission facility rehabilitation program, including the
purchase of materials and equipment and their installation;
A.8.          Improvement/rehabilitation of the existing water treatment
plants, including the purchase of materials and equipment and their
IS-ntllation.



- 28 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
PART B: Sewerage
B.1.       Construction of three sewage collectors (Zona 2A, Country Club
and Calle 79) with a total length of about 6 km.
PART C: Solid Waste
C.1.        Purchase of solid waste collection equipment, including about:
25 compacting trucks, 3 street sweepers, 2 front loaders, 2 bulldozers, 3
lifting trucks, 50 containers of various sizes; and
C.2.      Purchase of equipment and spare parts for the reorganization and
reequipment of the repair shop.
PART D: Institutional Rehabilitation
D.1.      Purchase of vehicles and equipment, including about:  12 trucks,
10 pickup trucks, 6 passenger cars, 1 crane, and 1 floating dredge; and
D.2.       Technical assistance (Draft Terms of Reference, Annex 7), train-
ing of EPMB's staff and the purchase of materials and miscellaneous equip-
ment for improving EPMB's managerial and operational performance and capa-
bilities by improving existing or, if necessary, introduce and implement
new systems and procedures related to:   (i) management and organization
(planning, reporting, internal control, strategic study on organization and
service responsibilities); (ii) accounting and budgeting (new systems to
allow preparation of financial statements by service); (iii) personnel man-
agement (job profiles and classification, renumeration, career development,
systematic training); (iv) commercial activities (billing and collection,
meter reading, overdue accounts); (v) metershop reorganization; (vi) pur-
chasing and inventory management and control; (vii) maintenance and opera-
tion (preventive maintenance, equipment repair); (viii) water transmission
system (survey state of repair pipes, valves, etc., pitometric study, pres-
sure zoning); (ix) water treatment plants (improve quality of water pro-
duced and more efficient operation); (x) solid waste (reestablishment effi-
cient door-to-door service, pilot projects poor neighborhoods, clean up
public markets, more sanitary disposal, equipment repair shop, study future
disposal).
PART E: Studies and Engineering Services
E.1.      Supervision of construction;
E.2.       Survey of the existing water supply infrastructure and the pre-
paration of a plan, designs and bidding documents for the rehabilitation
and expansion of water distribution in the southwestern part of the city in
preparation of Part A.6 of the project; and



- 29 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
E.3.      Update of water and sewerage feasibility studies and the prepara-
tion of studies, designs and bidding documents for the next phase for the
expansion of EPMB's water and sewerage system.
E.4.      Solid waste feasibility study to dertmine the most cost-effective
and sanitary solid waste collection and disposal option for the city of
Barranquilla, including the design of a sanitary land fill operation.
Part F: Incremental Working Capital
F.1.       Purchase of chemicals and spare parts between March 1, 1985 and
December 31, 1987.



COIMIA
RAEWUMJflA WaM ShLFY FJEC
Ietailed Pro1 t cst EstLo
(Us$ )LIM
1935          1986          1987          1988          1989          1990          1991
Fomeig   Lbte Fbreg te FooeR re1w  Foteton loca FmW    redg Fomiial  Pwe4gy  tOf FogW   Lccl Yrelgn waa7
Part ~
A.   Water 9xlv                7,72    7.97  15.69      0.24  0.50   1.83  2.66   2.63  1.35   1.42  1.47   1.08  1.35   0.28  0.38   0.22  0.25
A.   ITutallation of Mlnm      0.59    1.38   1.97      0.10  0.30   0.49   1.18
A. 2  RalUbilitation]Eniun
Pfting Stations          1.93    0.37   2.30
Parchasm               1.8s    0.22   2,10                     0.75  0.09   1.13  0.13
Installation           0.05    0.15   0.20                                   0.05  0.15
A.3  Cbatruxtlon Storape Tk  0.44      1.03    1.47     0.07  0.15   0.37  0. 88c
A.4  Water Haters              1.32    1.08   2.40
Purh                   0.93   0T.17   1.1O                                   0.70  0.13   0.23  0.04
butallation            0.39    0.91    1.30      0.0Q  0.05   0.12  0.26   0.11  0.26   0.11  0.26   0.03  0.08
AL5   He   a tiais             0.45    1.10    1.55
Puwd_mm                0.32    0.32      6       0.04  0.04   0.07  0.07   0.07  0.07   0.07  0.07   0.07  0.07
!mtallation            0.13    0.78   0.91      0.01   0.06   0603  0.18   0.03  ri. IS   0.03  0.18   0,03  0.18
A.6  Fhal/Ef.Zo aSmith Whet 0.62    0.98    1.60
ParchurdZ._35   0T.35  0.70                                                 0.03  0.04   0.17  0.18   0.14  0.14
Civil WIoks            0.27    0.63   0.90                                                 0.11  0.21   0.11  0629   0.05  0.13
Ah7  bhabo T'wmd. Syptz        1.13    1.27   2.40                                                                                                                     0Pt
0._ ni     0.50                                      0.16  0.10   0.16  0.10   0.16  0.10   0.16  0.10   0.16  0.0 
Inztallntao            0.33    0.77   1.10                                   0.06  0.15   0.07  0. 15   0.06  0.,13   0.07  0.1O   0.06  0.15
A.8  Rehab Thant Plat          1.24    0.76   2.00
Ekirchess              =1.12    O.U    7;                                    0.28  0.12   0.42  0.18   0.42  0. 18
Inutatuin              0.12    0.6Z    0.40                                  0.01  0.02   0.05  0.10   0.06  0.16



- 31 -
.o 2 d 2
125     M         -w              i
1985         1911          19U?         1931          359J         30            131
s_                          oa0.3    0."    0.92
1.1  a        dt   act=      0.39    0.    0.92
l49                   myIN    rii 33                                                                 0.06  0.14   0.06  0.13
evu us*               0.18    0.42   0.W0                                                            0.31  0.25   0.07  0.17
C    sad___                  3.56    0."    4.00
C.l                         3.26    0.31   3.60                    L3  0.14  1.9        0.20
C.2    _     APr             0.30    0.10   0.60                                 0.30  0.10
IL   1ztlt1mml TOM.    1.0    1.93   3.73
I  3dt= of mm                L10    0.13   1.23                  044  0.0a   0.66  0.1
0.2         StJmeil.         0.70    I.1    2.50
CMddZmvIm             0D .      50   1.10                   0.01  0.3    0.060 .42  o06  0.42   0.01 0.2
Mbftft9               O.1     0.20   0.3D                                 L03 0.090.0    0.12  0.0   0.0
hh     d              0.0    0.10   o.30                                  0.16 0.06  0.24 0.06
=m                   l0.16    L2D   1.5
LI  Squinwou1ind.    0.0C    0.3c   0.0                            0.0   0.a11   0.01  0..16   0.01  0.17   0.01  0.11
L2 SI/Dp 7-
Sm4=                  0.0a    0.25   0.30D                   .        o10.    0.0  0.15
3.3 ?aam   omi
- obw     A   a       0.06    0.36   0.0                                               0.10.22 a0.00.14
3.4  Sa b11d     st          0.01    0.13   0.15                                 O.z  0.13
F.  l.Ima    VdK
uimpm)y g      2.5     3.7    6.2      0.61  1.11   Lll  14    0.75  Lll
7a  c    3t       15.3   t5.96  31.91      OJ  1.61   4.75  4.82   &.W  3.03  1.79   Z*   1.35  2.36   0.39  0.A    0.22  0.25
Hy.11wfqnd              1.3     1.23   L?57     0.06 09   0.35 0.30  0.90.270.18010M 5. .0.a32.  O. OA*   OAROA
0    Y                Z30D   O.4"   2.74       -   (O.01)  0.26 (0.13)  0.77 (0.0a) 0.47  0.11   01    0.31   0. 19  0.14   0.13  OBa3
1h1X 19.42 t                    7.637           0.92  1.66   5.36 4.9       1 7.96 4.05  2M    2.    1lO .    91   0.62  OJl  OX   0.36
1 Ja 1395 _ m
-on  - folm     pt1u.ti
Taw              ~~195     193       1967    193    1969    1930       1991
1inu1Ti1adm(Z Cp                5.0      7.5       8.0     &O      6.      8.0       8.0
TAni JE tin (2)                Z.O      mo0       .LO    18.0    U.O    18.0    .ILO
CdantofS (fd-+  )             15.0    170.0      19B.    230.0   21L0   263.0  26o0



-32-                                                  manr  5
A. S
aAo
LW IMA.          S X
ptmmeS dhb    for iblo  OC
~u'ctm   ~            0.9          Siply         1        12          4/8         mu86  NM      8        38 
A1      lb.. i                           .6       S 2.0  SpeIu    3 t       t a/       3/85        30/8        11/85       -        3J/6
A.2 11bbd                              0 1.7        Supply        3   D         / 1 8 U 1/85                    5186  121 116 8JB7
A.3  *     atal l.S I                  0lJ. 15 is                                       3/85 1       187        /85        -        3/86
A.4    1- 
IzWm                         0.9          Wu1y          1       1/u          4/86        6/186      120/86    347         -
Luz  am i                    0.2          SPlPy         3       Lp B         4c6 b/       6 M    12/87        -35/77
lm o tarin                   1.3         h     aat.    lle   Othr d          8/8S       10/5        tE85        -        11185
A.5  _FlM                              1.6         Spply5t.         ple   ath e l      8/8S        10/85       112/875      7       -
A.6    RA o. .m .  9 t4b
lautvdJu0.7 03LY                                        3       1lJ         m6 g!        Z/86        8/87     1/8         _
n                           0.9       S4p                     ta            2/8' b      4 5/8      11/83       -        l/SD
A.7     NOWr  t      _mdoc    q
.3          SPPly        23        11=          4186          6 6/86              4/87       -
C.2  Fqdttq rul'0.6                     Sudtpl          3       l1Od.w /     68/86       8/86        2/87       -        5/87
A.8     Roh ob.        PlAm
R     ec.o                   L2          Suply         3,5      mmOM 1816                2/86        2/11      6/87       -
C..khr"         0.3                     SrI            3-5      0d   e      118/8j      10/8     6   5/87       -        6/8T
B.      sm     n  o                    0.9        Supply/81ot.    3       Rs           12/86       4/88        10/87      - 1179
C.      Sold Wminli    .~
L2 i         ih   e - p    it          3.3        SApply          3       lI a/        1/86         2/6b       8/86      126166
C32     Ptuai            VP .          0.4        9dMly           3        Idm I/       1876       8/86        1/87      4/87       1
D.1     Pacd_ af NhLcl                 L2         SWAY           3-4      IM3 a/       1/86        ZtE6        8186      12/86 
L2      Inlutolstm.!a
amga        Lwim6    r                    WL            3       Odow d/    11/85        12/85        6/E6       -        8/86
RgCd_e of G*-m               0.5        SM1il          8-12     lQl=i       121          1187        6/87      lel87      -
E.          _        e    Sriam
E.1     awndSm   amtuci                0.6        9ei             I       Other d/    11/85        12/85       5/86       -         6/86
EL2     SarvW/doo      le Slut}bt    0.3          Smvc            I       Odr d/      11/85        am     2     /85 06   _          6/86i
L.3  Pt      mlm sawd wtp po           0.4        Sera       I            Odv  d/      1187        4/8 7    10187          -        1/88
L4      Solid V- Stbl                  0.2        Sozvfc          I       OdthErd     11/86        12/86       7/87       -         3/87
./ aw. bl       wth IwIevW    gmm&
/ TaWet dw. car  to frc.t  r.
c/ d   bM     diractly b    tk         to p,.qulifid    ctra          in   m    ut exnolhx   IE .0O quAlent:t; tnp   d          tefer to
pm~uUfi- . aid p1           of fizt *k ordw.
dlk qdd2Jz  for fmultmt .e.tioi.
ef S9ly   t          to be lot i    tedcml in..tm  pz



aUlMIA
MUAUMR A Wm SnLY From
Pnwfsct rltati  d            l. - Omulatiw COnstion
19_5            1986             1987      . _        _         1989            1990            1991
Part          ac      t                         Udt   1  2  3  4   T  2  3  4   T  2  3 1 4   1  23   4   I  2   3  4  T   2   3  4   1  2   3  4
A.       later Su91y_
A.L I    Intalattimn mains                       VI                    5   10  12
A.2      Fahabiltatitn pl1rg stations            X                                 20 50 80 100          I
AJ3      ozttwtcin stornia tar                   Z                     40  80 100
A.4      Ikwery rters/alcries                    (000)                                 10_ 2_  25 30  35 40
A.4     Installatin of eters                    (OOD)                  6   12  19 25 30  35 40  45 50  55 606 666       70
A.5      ImtalIat1m of hIm .amecth              (O0)                   2   4  6  8   10   t 13i 14  6  17  19 _   22 24 26
A.6      blubiLtAticr/e2uic Zm   Si              2                                                     10 20 30 40 50 60 70  _  90 100
AL7       ehbillttatn tri.1isomn yatem_ 2                                                 8    14 20  25  30 35 40  45 50   55 6065   70 75  SD 90 ltl
A.8      Rubhllltatim  trsatbt plaitX 2                                                        10 20 30 45 60  s0 90 100
B           _ero
B.1    Gatniction coUector                      2             _                                                       15 30  45 60 90 100_ I
C        SoUd mte
C. I     1uwery collectlio equlpent                                                                                                                                                    _ 20 40  60  90 100
C.2        livery rqmir dipeqiimprnt           _                                          100



ale
w,januA warn           x iw
fmhct lwZut"fmi Idujal - Oinzladw  1.Lu
irni  INS           IN?198      iE           Igo         190           99
hirt                 _                      T T  4 _ 2 3 _ _   2 5 13 jTT  T          2 3 _ _     2 3_   2 3 _ _    2T T3
. ItitutmuIRd                                                                     ___M_tatim_
hI    Iuwiw  ic1as                                          20 50 So0100
D,2    Izubtttul utuwp1wu tinkm    Z                            10 20 3  0 50  WI          0 10 W                        _ I
LI    Saulu axtmietai                  X          _                   30 40 _  _  _  As 70 7! OD _  X0ff __85 90 95 100
L2      lwy     . Zcaw                  X                       10 25081-  0 l 0               _    
L3    pNcrziwuicn a   dstappr~oject     Z101 20 80 60 80 90 100
5.4    SoUd Ite Study                   x                                2 60 100 
______________                           _ii____                1    _                            ____,                          ,
==_ __ __ __ __I_ __ _ _ _ _ _ __                                                        _,



- 35 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Plan of Action for the Implementation of the Institutional
Strengthening Program
1.         The institutional strengthening program will be carried out by a
consortium of consulting firms with special expertise and experience in the
execution of technical assistance programs aimed at upgrading the manage-
ment and the administrative, financial and operational systems and proce-
dures of water utilities.
2.          The objectives of the program, the scope of work and details
about the nature of the technical assistance program to be executed are
summarized in the Attachment.
The program will be carried out in the following three phases.
Phase I - Diagnosis/Assessment
During this phase, the consultants will review and assess the adequacy of
EPMB's existing organization, systems and procedures.   It ends with an
inception report sumarizing the main findings of the evaluation including
the identification of major deficiencies and present a detailed assessment
of EPHB's performance.  It will propose improvement measures which could be
implemented immediately by EPMB.
Phase II - Plan of Action
Based on the institutional and operational assessment, and taking into
account the resources available to EPMB, the consultants will outline over-
all targets for institutional improvements which they would expect to
achieve under the institutional improvemert program. For each of the sys-
tems and procedures identified as deficient and for EPMB as a whole, the
consultants will develop specific recommendations for improvement and pro-
pose a detailed plan of action to reach the previously defined targets.
This plan of action will be worked out in close cooperation with EPMB and
reviewed by the Bank and provide the blueprint for carrying out specific
institutional/operational strengthening subprojects during the implementa-
tion phase.
For each of the systems and procedures t be improved, modified
or newly introduced, the consultants will be asked to provide:
(i)    proposals for changes in systems and procedures including
an evaluation of alternative solutions in terms of costs,
benefits, practicality and adaptability at EPNB;
(ii)   comprehensive   description   of   proposed   system   and
procedure;



-36-                  ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
(lli) tentative or definite statement of hard and software needs
for implementing the system;
(iv)   based on the assessment of the personnel qualifications
estalbished during the evaluation phase, a statement on
personnel needs and if necessary a program for in-house
and/or outside training for staff and management; and
(v)    a detailed work program including level of effort needed
by the consultant and a timetable Identifying all acions
to be taken by consultant and EPHN.
Work on individual systems should be coordinated with others taking into
account relative priority and interdependency.
Phase III - Implementation
During this Phase, the plan of action developed under Phase II will be
implemented as a cooperative effort of EPMB staff and the consultants.
Training of EPHB's stafff and management and purchase of equipment as
required would take place in this phase.
3.        The contractual arrangement to be negotiated with the consultants
selected will cover all three phases.   The scope of work and level of
effort of Phase III of the consultants will be defined in detail after the
completion of the plan of action agreed to by EPMB and the Bank.
4.        The following time frame is foreseen for hiring of the technical
assistance consultants and carrying out of the institutional development
program.
Target
Activity                                   Completion Date
Submission of draft terms of reference,
budget and short list of consultants to
the Bank.                                                      11/20/85
Invitation of proposals                                         lt101/85
Receipt proposals by invited consultants                        01/3''86
Evaluation of proposals and
recommendations of award submitted to Bank                     03/15/86
Negotiation with consultants completed
submission of draft agreement to the Bank                      04/30/86
Signature of contract                                           06/30/86
Consultants begin work                                          08/01/86
End Phase I                                                     10/30/86
End Phase II                                                    02/28/87
Completion of Program                                           12/31/88



- 37 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment I
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Summary Scope of Work for Institutional Strengthening Program
1.        The program will cover, but not be limited to, the development
and implementation of improvements in the following areas:
(a) Management and Administration - with the main objective to
provide EPMB management with more efficient tools for the
administration and control of the company. Special consid-
eration should be given to the appropriateness of EPMB's
current organizational structure and management subsystems
such as management reporting, planning and internal control;
(b) Accounting and Budgeting - including: the implementation of
an appropriate financial and cost accounting system allowing
the timely preparation of financial and cost statements on a
consolidated and by-service basis; and the introduction of a
budgeting system which, integrated with the accounting sys-
tem, would permit effective control of expenditures and be
compatible with financial planning;
Cc) Personnel Management - including a detailed analysis of
EPMB's current staff and staffing needs and the impl.menta-
tion of more efficient policies and procedures for recruit-
ment, job classifications, remuneration, performance evalua-
tion, career development and training;
Cd) Commercial System - needing complete overhaul to enable EPMB
to register, and bill all connections and to improve collec-
tions.  Special attention should be given to:  updating of
customer file, census of customers, meter reading, bill pre-
paration and distribution, collection of accounts, dealing
with overdue accounts and customer complaints, and public
relations;
(e)  Purchasing and Inventory - including: the introduction of
more efficient and controlled procedures for the purchase of
goods and materials and better warehouse and stores organi-
zation and the preparation of an inventory of spare parts
and materials including the identification and disposal of
obsolete items;



- 38 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 3
(f)  Maintenance and Operation - including:  the Introduction of
an inventory of all equipment vital to EPMB's operation; the
preparation of a short-, medirm-, and long-term equipment
and vehicle replacement program for all Items found in sub-
standard conditions; introduction of an appropriate system
of preventive maintenance for key equipment; reorganization
and reequlpment of repair and maintenance facilities;
improved procedures for. the repair/replacement of defective
equipment and vehicles;
(g) Metershop - establishment of a program to repair, calibrate
and replace defective water meters;
(h) Water Transmission System - organization of systematic pro-
gram for rehabilitating and operating more efficiently the
existing system including:   survey of state of repair of
pipes, valves and hydrants; leak detection; systematic leak
repair program; pitometric studies to improve the configura-
tion of pressure zones and the implementation of measures to
obtain better pressure zoning; development of program for
the purchase and installation of equipment and the construc-
tion of related structures;
(j) Water Treatment Plant Operation - development, design and
execution of a program to improve quality of treated water
for Plants 1, 2 and 3 and integrate the operation of EPHBI's
five treatment plants in a most cost-effective manner. This
work would include structural improvements to the plants and
the repair and replacement of equipment; and
(k)  Solid Waste Collectt n and Disposal - the implementation of
the recoinendations contained in a 1983 solid waste study
prepared by S. Cointreau,1/ including (i) the reestablish-
ment of an efficient door-to-door solid waste collection
program making best use of the collection equipment to be
purchased under the proJect; (ii) the execution of pilot
projects to identify the most efficient and cost-effective
way to extend solid waste service to the poor neighborhoods;
(iii) implementing more sanitary disposal practices at the
dump; (iv) implementing a system for the regular cleanup of
waste around public markets; tv) identifying future equip-
ment needs; (vi) reorganization and reequipping the repair
workshop; (vii) preparing a study on Barranquilla's future
waste disposal options which should focus on the establish-
ment of more sanitary and efficient practices and consider
future disposal sites and transfer stations.
1/    S.  Cointreau,  Barranquilla,  Colombia,  Solid  Waste  Management,
Preappraisal Mission Report to the World Bank, August 1983.



- 39 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 3
2.        In carrying out the program, it will be considered that:
(a) any of the systems and procedures to be introduced should be
appropriate to the environment of Barranquilla and, with
adequate training, can be handled with the human resources
available to EPNB and that any system or procedure be tested
before its full implementation;
(b) the introduction of new or improved systems and procedures
will require comprehensive assistance, i.e., the consultant
will be responsible for all aspects of the assistance, from
diagnosis through final implementation, including training
(on-the-job or formal practical training outside) and the
identification and acquisition of appropriate hardware and
software;
(c)  to the extent possible,  consultants should make use of
existing and proven systems and procedures like those
already being utilized by water utilities in Colombia or
elsewhere or being applied by INSFOPAL under the program for
institutional strengthening of executing companies (FOREC);
(d) the design of the technical assistance program as a whole
should be integrated, coordinated and balanced; i.e., it
should look at all facets of EPNB, recognize and establish
priorities  among  the  systems  and  procedures  to  be
implemented, and take into account constraints to EPMB's
capacity for absorbing new systems and procedures;
(e) the priority of any improvement measures should be judged on
its impact on the quality of service to EPMB's customers and
EPMB's financial condition; and
(f) wherever feasible, the possibility of contracting out of
EPMB's systems (meter reading, billing, meter repair, repair
of equipment, for example) to the private sector should be
investigated.



- 40 -                  ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
COLONEBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Limits on Typj of Procurement and Prior Review Threshold
US$ (000)
Prior
Review       Contract       Aggregate           Type of
Limit        Value            Limit          Procurement
Goods a/         50           > 50           -         ICB
10-50           400      LCB with foreign bid-
ders    having    the
opportunity to parti-
cipate
< 10           100      Price  quotation  from
at least three quali-
fied local bidders
Spare Parts
and Chemicals                               2500       Price  quotation  from
at least three quali-
fied local bidders
Civil Works     500        > 1000            -         ICB
100-1000          3000       LCB with foreign bid-
ders    having    the
opportunity to parti-
cipate
a0-100           500       Price  quotation  from
at least three quali-
fied local bidders
< 20          3500      Work order with pre-
established prices to
prequalified contrac-
tors
a/   Purchases of chemicals and spare parts financed under the working
capital component would be procured on the basis of prudent shopping
from local suppliers.



- 41 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Cost by Procurement Method a/
Procurement Method
Project Element                        ICB      LCB         Other      Total
Equipment/materials                    14.9      0.4         0.7 b/      16.0
(10.0)    (0.1)       (0.5)      (10.6)
Chemicals and spare parts               -                    6.2 c/       6.2
-         -         (2.5)       (2.5)
Civil works/installation                3.2      3.8         3.8 d/      10.8
(1.1)    (1.3)       (1.3)       (3.7)
Consulting services and                 -                    4.2 e/       4.2
training                                       -         (2.8)       (2.8)
TOTAL                    18.1       4.2       14.9         37.2
(11.1)    (1.4)       (7.1)      (19.6)
a   Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
b/ Local shopping of small purchases (less than US$10,000) and, on an
emergency basis for the immediate purchase of equipment and materials
(valves, electrical equipment, vehicles) with a total value of up to
US$400,000.
c/  Local shopping.
d/  Installation/repair of meters, house connections, valves and small pipe
segments by work order.
e/  Selected on the basis of proposals from short-list of consultants.



- 42 -
ANNEX 9
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
The proposed disbursement categories, the allocation of Loan
funds and the disbursement percentages are as follows:
Amount of
Loan Allocation
(Expressed in Dollar         % Expenditure
Category                  Equivalent)             to be Financed
(1) Equipment, vehicles,                8.5             100l  of foreign
pipes                                               expenditures and
40% of local expen-
ditures
(2) Civil works                         2.6             40% of total expen-
ditures
(3) Chemicals and spare                 2.5             402 of total expen-
parts                                               ditures
(4) Consulting services                 2 3             100% of total
and training and                                    expenditures
scholarships under
Part D of the project
(5) Consulting services                 0.5             40Z of total expen-
under Part E of the                                 itures
project
(6) Interest and other                  4.4             Amount due
charges on the loan
(7) Unallocated                         3.5
TOTAL                        24.0
--mm--



- 43 -
ANNEX 10
COLOMBIA
PROPOSED BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan Disbursement Schedule
Bank Fiscal Year                 Quarterly
and Quarter Ending              Disbursement        Cumulative Disbursement
(US$ Million)     US$ Million    Z of Total
FY 1986
March 31, 1986                         1.0              1.0            4.2
June 30, 1986                         0.5                1.5           6.2
FY 1987
September 30, 1986                    2.0               3.5           14.6
December 31, 1986                     2.6               6.1           25.4
March 31, 1987                         2.1               8.2          34.2
*June 30, 1987                         2.0              10.2           42.5
F'Y 1988
September 30, 1987                    1.6              11.8           49.2
December 31, 1987                     1.6              13.4           55.8
March 31, 1988                         1.6             15.0           62.5
June 30, 1988                         1.6              16.6           69.2
F'! 1989
September 30, 1988                     idi             17.7           73.8
December 31, 1988                     1.1              18.8           78.3
March 31, 1989                         1.0             19.8           82.5
June 30, 1989                          1.0             20.8           86.7
FY 1990
September 30, 1989                    0.6              21.4           89.2
December 31, 1989                     0.6              22.0           91.7
March 31, 1990                        0.6              22.6           94.2
June 30, 1990                         0.5              23.1           96.3
FY 1991
September 30, 1990                    0.3              23.4           97.5
December 31, 1990                     0.2              23.6           98.3
March 31, 1991                         0.2             23.8           99.2
June 30, 1991                         0.2              24.0          100.0



- 44 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 6
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Empresas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla (EPMB)
Notes to the Financial Statements
General
EPMB's financial statements of 1983 and 1984 are audited.  In
many instances, however, data had to be estimated since EPMB's
existing accounting system, although adequate to record
project-related transactions and expenditures, is not sufficient
to provide a detailed breakdown of revenues, operating costs and
balances by service. In addition to the assumptions specified
for water demand and production, population growth, inflation,
exchange rates, etc., the projected financial statements of
1985-91 are based on the assuMptions summarized below.
Revenues
l. Water and Sewerage Revenues. The average water tariff for
1985 is based on previous tariff for the first six montihs of the
year and implementation on July 1, 1985 of the revised tariff
structure approved as a condition for negotiation of IBRO loan by
the National Tariff Board. Average water tariff for 1986 reflect
a continuatioi of the 1.8 monthly increases currently being
granted to most municipality water companies in Colombia. From
1987-91 water tariffs are projected to increase in line with
domestic inflation. Sewerage tariffs during 1985-91 are assumed
to remain at 50X of water billed.
2.   Other Revenues (Water and Sewerage).  Projected in line with
number of new water and sewerage connections per year, assuming
average charges per connection remains constant in real terms.
3.   Solid Waste Services.  Projected on the basis that solid
waste tariffs will remain essentially unchanged in 1985. But,
following the completion of a tariff study now being prepared by
EPMB and to be presented to the Junta Nacional de larifas by
end-December 1985 (as documented in minutes of negotiations),



- 45 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 6
such tariffs will be increased by 100X for 1986. From 1987
through 1991, solid waste revenues are assumed to increase in
line with inflation.
4.   Municipal Property Taxes.  Revenues for 1985 reflect the
2501 increase in property taxes approved by the Municipal Council
of Barranquilla at the beginning of the year. From 1986-91,
property taxes are projected to increase in line with inflation.
S.   Other (Third Party) Revenues.  Includes revenues from street
cleaning and paving taxes, drainage charges, and gold stamp and
miscellaneous taxes. They are projected to increase, in line with
municipal property taxes.
Operating Costs
6.   Personnel.  Projected costs for 1985 reflect EPMB's recent
success in reducing the si:e of its staff and the 20Z salary
increase already agreed to with unions. In subsequent years,
personnel costs for water and sewerage operations are projected
to increase with the number of water/sewerage connections,
adjusted for inflation and for reduction in the staff per
thousand connections ratio. For EPMB's other services, personnel
costs are projected to increase with inflation keeping constant
the total number of employees.
7.   Chemical.  Projected to increase with water production and
inflation.
8.   Power and Fuel.  Assumes EPMB will resume paying electricity
c:sts in 1986 at rate agreed to previously with Electricity
Company and that this rate will be adjusted annually to remain
constant in real terms. The volume of electricity consumed is
projected to increase in line with the volume of water produced.
Fuel costs for operations other than water and sewerage are
projected to increase with inflation until mid-1986 when, as a
result of the acquisition of vehicles and equipment financed
under the project, these costs are expected to double and remain
constant in real terms thereafter.
9.   Materials.  For water and sewerage operations, projected in
line with number of new water connections per year, assuming
average cost per connection remains constant in real terms. For
other services, projected to increase with inflation.
10. General and Other. Consists mainly of benefits and
compensation paid to retired workers. Projected as a fixed
percentage of personnel costs for each service.
11. Depreciation. For water and sewerage operations, annual
charges based on 31 depreciation rate applied to total fixed
assets minus depreciation charges related to assets for



- 46 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 6
operations other than water and sewerage. Gross fixed assets and
accumulated depreciation are revalued in line with inflation.
For other services (i.e. solid waste), annual charges are based
on a 10% depreciation rate applied to equipment ard vehicle
purchases financed under the project.
Working Capital and Other Assets Needs
12. Accounts Receivable. Projected on the basis of targeted
anr.ual collections-to-billings ratio for each service; other
targets such as months of sales in accounts receivable were not
used because of EPMB's current high level of accounts receivable,
much of which is more than two years overdue. During project
execution, these accounts will be analyzed with the help of
consultants and, if possible, written off. However, for purpose
of projections, no write off is assumed pending clarification of
the legal status of writing off of public assets. Projections
assume a gradual improvement in the annual
collections-to-billings ratio as follows: for water supply and
sewerage services, from 75% in 1984 to 85% in 1990 and
thereafter; and for solid waste services, from 55% in 1984 to 85%
in 1990 and thereafter. For municipal property taxes and
third-party payments, the collection/billing ratio is expected to
drop to 60% in 1985, reflecting anticipated collection problems
associated with the recent large increase in property taxes, and
then to increase gradually to 85% in 1990 and thereafter. The
above ratios differ from those which appear in the key
performance indicators since such indicators represent targets of
improvement for EPMB.
13. Inventory and Material in Transit. Projected to be
equivalent to about 6 months of chemical and materials costs.
14. Accounts Payable. Includes payable to suppliers as well as
accumulated past due liabilities such as prinicipal and interest
owed on short-term debt. They are projected to decline gradually
as a percentage of operating costs (excluding personnel costs)
and take into account EPMB's improving working capital position
particularly during the early years of project execution.
1S. Other Current Liabilities. Mainly deposits and collections
for third parties. Projected to increase in line with revenues
from third parties.
16. Long-Term Debt Due in One Year. Projected on the basis of
EPMB's existing and future debt service requirements.
17. Other Assets. Miscellaneous a%sets ureojected to remain
constant in real terms.
18.  Long-Term Debt.  Broken down into long-term debt secured by
pledged collections, which is projected to decline gradually



- 47 -
AM=  11
Page 4 of 6
overtime in accordance with the established amortization schedule
for these loans, and other long-term debt, which includes the
IBRD loan as well as yet-to-be identified loans contracted to
finance investments in 1989-91.
Cash and Repayment of Arrears to Major Creditors
19. Cash and Other Liabilities. Minimum level of cash is
assumed to be about one month of total consolidated operating
costs. As the below analysis shows, once EPMB's financial
recovery takes hold and as the loan's working capital component
is disbursed, EPMB is expected to generate substantial levels of
excess ca5h which could be used to reduce overdue debt to majors
creditors such as the Electric Company (CSBZ5 nn.), Social
Security (CS250 mn.), I.C.B. (C$66 mn.),and SENA (CSSO nn.).
Year              1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
(Pesos Millions)
EPMB Net Internal
Cash 6enerat'n    224   597  1110  1506  1898  2278
Less:
IBRO Counterp't
Funding Req.         0    79   374   675   237   115
Inc.Cash to
Mlaint.Min.Cash
Balance             95      a     0 O          0     a
Excess Cash
Avail.to Repay
Creditors          129   518   736   831  1661  2463
At negotiations, agreement was reached that EPMB would sign
contracts for the rescheduling of overdue debt with the
above-mentioned creditors as a condition of Loan effectiveness.
While the specifics terms and conditions for repayment of this
overdue debt still remains to be defined, the above projections
indicate that EPM3 should have in the future the resouces
available to enter into meaningful rescheduling agreements with
major creditors.
Investment5
20. Total Investments. Includes the expenditures under the
IBRD/FFDU financed project; expenditures for the completion in
1985 of a new water treatment plant; and other major yet-to-be



- 48 -
ANNME 11
Page 5 of 6
identified water supply, sewerage and solid waste investments to
be undertaken beginning in 1989. These latter investments are
assumed to be financed in part by external loans and, as there is
a Loan covenant which limits EPMB's annual investments and
related debt, will only be permitted if EPMB demonstrates that
the investments and debt are economically justified and that the
company has the financial and technical resources to undertake
such investments.
21. Capitalized Interest. Mainly capitalized interest on IBRO
loan during the grace period from 1985 to 1989.
Debt Service
22. Projected debt service requirements reflect interest and
principal payments on existing and future borrowings as described
in the financial projections. All external debt is revalued
annually to reflect anticipated devaluation of the Colombian
Pesos vis-a-vis the US Dollar. Interest payments on short-term
debt is assumed to remain constant in real terms. Summarized
below are the key features of the major new long-term debt to be
contracted by EPMB.
23. IBRO Loan. USS24.0 million equivalent; 17 year term which
includes four years of grace; 9.29% average interest rate; and
0.75% annual commitment fee.
24. FFDU Loan. C$931 million, of which CS554 million will be
used as counterpart funds for the IBRD project and the remaining
CS377 million for the completion of the new water treatment
plant; 9 year term which includes one year of grace; and 25%
annual interest rate.
25. Banco de Paris Loan. FF16 million (USS1.45 million
equivalent) for completion of the new treatment plant; 7 year
term; and average interest rate of 8.25%.
Contributions
26. Department of Atlantico. C$600 million (USS4.3 million
equivalent) to be provided by the Department Government in
1985-87 toward IBRO project financing. This committment is
expressed in a letter of intention signed by the Governor of
Atlantico and presented to the Bank during negotiations. At
negotiations EPMB also informed the Bank that additional
contributions of CS300 million from the Municipality and CS500
million from the Department of Atlantico are expected in 1986-88
to support capital investments, including a portion destined for
the IBRO project. For purpose of the financial projections,
however, only the Departmento's contribution of CS600 million for
project counterpart funding is considered.



- 49 -
ANNME 11
Page 6 of 6
Cash Flow Covenants
27. In addition to the above, several other assumptions were
made for purposes of calculating  EPMB's cash flow covenants.
Working capital needs were allocated approximately as follows:
4SZ for water and sewerage operations and 55% for other
services. Under the IBRD loan, all debt service requirements and
investments were assigned to water and sewerage operations with
the exception of US$3.1 million equivalent which was assumed to
be disbursed in 1986 for solid waste services. As mentioned
previously, EFMB is assumed to undertake sizable yet-to-be
identified investments beginning in 1989 which will be financed
in part with external borrowings. The denominator in the
contribution-to-investment covenant is calculated on the basis of
average investments for the preceding year, the current year and
the following year.



- 50 -
ANNEX 11
Attachment 1
COLOMBIKA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Empresas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla (ElMB)
Basic Information for Financial Statements
(ColS Millions)
Ritualcktud ----Pojected---------------------
1953    191      1935    1996    117        1915 95    159            1991
Popuation ('U)                               1115.25  1157.C  NUDOO   1242.10  1295A  1331.19  1377.47 1125.68  1.53
Ettr lccmtsYe rEnd ('U)                        80.71   95.0    97.6u  111.6u  12u.68         1f.0    151.6C1  157.60  1w60
MIt   scue  vg&.U)                             7.13    93.19   91.60  1014.68  119.68   135.60  147.60  15.60  160.60
Na Viter lOu-s ('U)                            3.3      4.8Z    12.tO    1.A    16.00    16.A       8.00    6.E       6.80
Fop ati Saud Viter-Per Cun.(OU)             549.56  578.61   6N1.84  737.09  819.04   966.1  155.4  1107.0  1151.4
Pation Save  Vtr-Per St.lpe ('000)                                               125.59   266.18  275.45  255.35   321.0
FopulatinServedll-Pr Coi.(m )                    451      5C       531      591      66r      731     m        7M       7a
op.laton SeriWn lite-Per St*pe CD                                                    in 20 Z0         20S      z1S      m
lamp    Rbout  Yr End ('UN)                   73.83    78.43     7.      95.70  I.30   113A    115.9A    1201.8   129.0
lam         bouts l.('0U)                     72.53    7613    82.72    91.35   180.0   10.65   116A    121.50   126.I 0
Is, Seaw    omnts ('U)                         2.68     4.60     8.57     9.70    8.60      1.70    6.80    5.80      '.0
Popuation Saurd-Swa   ('0)                     0.3   520.78  m7.    635.45  692.55   758.32  79016   123.36   1.52
Fopuati.mSuud-Samg  (Z)                          361      45?      1        511      S41      56!     57Z      56       591
Capecity  fSst"  013 m)                       132.10  132.18   166.A0  2MA.  z2.90   294.80   201.8934.80   29.I9
Iald UV        Prudoction  (13am)             132.2Z   132.34   145.51   151.15  160.1   173.12  176.75  177.59   176.12
ibter tonsuptim-   ctiu as 113 m)             73.12   74.77   92.11    97.96        .7Z   1414   109.91  113.17   115.3
Uitar C_nuption- St _*e  as3 m)                                                    1.5t    3.15    3.31    3.59       3.50
Total VMr Cunpt im a3  )                      73.12    71.77    92.14    87.06    6.27   117.33  113.12  116.76   119.53
I hmcm        -rter                              151      "51      III      42Z      MOS      3t9     36?      341      32Z
hou.Cos.couectiuZ n OM1.)                      77.0    74.3    75.00    70.80    66.00    6t.      62.80   U.K       60J0
lq.g.CosAaStdipe (ilui/r      .)                                                  1.00     I.A      1.80    1.80     1.E
lb   Ug.     Ta'iffil (CS)                     12.65   13.78    15.30   23.0    28.08    33.11   39.10   4614    54.45
lgObbt Tariff Inme  (a)                         15.6?    9.95    11.1Z    55.6    11.91    19.5    19.5    18.9        19.3
Rug- UBIbe Tnffif  ('85 C)                                      15.30   19.93    19.93    19.83   19.03   19.93    19.9
BIta Saip ter Tariff                            9.50     O.58    O.S     0.50    0.50    0.50    0.50    8.50        0958
kg. Sunp Tofrfru'  1313 in ge                  6.33     6.89     7.65   11.90   14.01    16.57   19.55   23.07    Z7.22
lRmver Eo qplopeeViterl Sa.Servlces              065     965      '75      71       8953    lIO     1061    1103    1145
tudberf op4 er O-therServices                   .ii      94       SO       751      75D      759     1!5      750      759
11_ eufE      ple- Tot                         1706    1785    1&T        1531    1613    1755    1911       153    1955
h*berU  S EDypesrOU lUter Cu.                  10.7    10.1       7.9      ?.5      7.0 7.0  7         ..     7.0      7.0
hmalJIS PFnmead Cost per Perm                 5931    697619  93712 1809571  1195353  1356761  1650512 1547639 229214i
Tota IRS Pmud  Cot (m)                        SOt.57   693.4    69.79  791.77  1059.79  116.01  1751.55 21N.64  2631.91
Total Othe r Sev eess P o     l Cost (a)     513.60   56A    665.7   753.43  U.S  1094.17 1237.91 1460.   17M.6
Inflatim   te- Loal                            20.01    28.1    22.01    20.5    19.0    15.01   19.01   18.5    19.5
Inflation bte- latntetl                          6.91    3.5       S.O     7.51    O.01      9.1S    1.9      8.01     8.09
Yr EndECcgRte (CR4)                            0.A   113.73   i56.217   13.73   212.27   227.73  251.27      1.73   309.27
lvg.Exclpe  ite (       )                      79.58   11.25   135.8   170.U0  MSAD   221.80  21.80   263.A0   2995
kmaelu  atim                                            1.0      1.22    1.46    1.73       Z.O1    2.41    2.Bt    3.35
Loca  Odelar                                                     1.00      .0      0.05     1.72    0.61    9.52      8."



- 51 -
ANNEX 11
Attachment 2
COLOMBIA
BARRANQULLLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Empresas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla (EPMB)
Water Supply and Sewerage Services
Income Statement
(Col$ Millions)
Actal    ctwl -----
Year                                           1993    193      1905    1996    1987    1996    1909    1990    1991
Uater Tariffs                                925.00  1030.00 1261.43 2091.16 2660.1  345113  429.20  SM2.6  6216.0
Smierae Tariffs                              398.00  t15.00  562.1?  896.61  1007.22 1357J.6  1605.39 2051.29 2M6.99
Others                                       175.00  294.00  311.37  433.04  S1.2   617.01   426.90   385.51   436.71
TOTRL                                       1190.00 1765.90  2134.88 3120.81 1328.71  S96.U1  696.49  7661.66 9195.70
F.!rsonneh                                   504.57   603.41  648.79  784.77  IQ50.79 1406.04  1751.55  2140.64 2631.91
Chemicals                                    118.90  162.00  217.91   771.4   339.29   432.00   520.15   619.43  724.9
PO    a Ve1                                 410.00  162.00    1.80  263.08  329.78  U19.89   505.95  6.01   704.61
Hatrlals I Iunt.                              36.00  I5.0      81.92  122.55   159.07   17.92   167.19   140.3   111.20
Senerl I Other                               379.00   14.00  208.59  252.30  340.39  152.03   553.11   690.77  816.13
TOTN.                                       1470.17  1274.4  1368.9  1694.90 2226.33 2996.77  3500.45  4199.16  5018.08
Net Income before Deir.                       19.53   491.56  765.08  1725.83 2102.37 2609.23  2898.03  3162.50 4176.90
Depreciation (eualued)                        60.00   04.00  318.84   404.09  519.90  660.55   84.74  1074.64  1365.19
Met Operating Icone                          -48.7   410.56  147.04 131.74  1502.59  1940.69  2053.29  2387.66 2911.70
Operating Interet                             51.00   0.00   362.93  586.54  727.01   691.03   653.9t 1040.83  977.34
Net Incne, After Int.                       -109.17   330.56   04.21  735.20  655.57  1219.65  1399.46  1347.03  1934.36
Mon-Operating Incole It                        0.00  -60.00     0.08    0.00     0.00    0.00    O.O        0.00    0.00
met Incme                                   -109.47  270.56   81.21   735.20  B55.57 1Z119.6  1399.46  137.03  14.36
Uorking Ratio                                  0.99    0.72    0.64    0.50    0.51       0.53     0.5      O.S    0.55
Change in Total Reuus- I                                18.1    20.n    68.2    26.5s    z7.       16.61   19.61   20.01
Change in Total Expenses-                             -16.0?    6.91    19.2S   23.91   22.51    17.71    16.4?   16.3?



- 52 -
ANNEX 11
Attachment 3
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Eupresas Publicas Municipalec de Barranquilla (EPHI)
Solid Waste Removal and Other Services
Income Statement
(Col$ Millions)
ktual  actul ---Prjtte d
Year                                           1913    194       19s5     1986    1987    1908    1919    1990    155
EeWuu
Twiffs-Sid ll k                               332.00  360.01   319.00  776.00  915.68  1010.50  127N.   1504.4  1775.38
uicipl Tans                                   160.00  345.U  1097.0  1316.40 155.35  1632.96 2162.89 2552.21  3011.60
Othrs (Third Parties)                         18.19   5Z.19   165.34  13.11   234.13    61.2?  3ZC.0   3.61   453.92
TOTAL                                        510.19  757.19  1650.34 ZZ90.91  203.16  3189.13  3763.1  4441.3  52410.13
Eien..
Persomel                                     513.60  586.00   66911   753.43   195.05  1015.07 1237.51  1460.73 1723.66
Chte,cals                                      9.0O      O.M1 0. O.        0.     9             0.19 m.DD
POWer   Fud                                    9.69    17.50    21.35    34.1   9.00   559.        65.62    92.15   5.91
fbterials I laiint.                           2311A    23.30   29.93   34.11    40.25   97.8    56.05    66.13    79.04
Gena  I Other                                223.70  257.W   339.3  391.86  450.59   531.70  6Z7.40  74.31  873.
TOTRL                                        77.5   523.10 105.2  U03.10  1152.9  168717 1990.1  2319.35  2772.3
Nkt In  befre Dqer.                         -264.99 -166.10   551.f3 10A7.12  1273.27  1502.16 1M.90  209Z.03 2468.59
fleprelation (halued)                        .619.1    56.19    60.00   9A.3   101.30   118.35   139.66  161.01   154.16
Net Oprting Iner                            -312.99  -222.    531.13 1002.2 1172.97  131.11  1633.25 127.3  224.13
Opeatin Interest                              23.00   59.19    75.00   90.00  106.20  125.32  17.87   1N.45   205.91
Net Ine  After It.                          -335.99  -210.15   456.43  912.12  1066.n  1259.75  1415.37 1752.71  2069.21
un-peraing Incm  (Net)                        32.00 -110.W       0.1      0.01    0.10       .00    0.W      0.9      0.1 1
Nkt Income                                  -303.99 -39CA.1   456.43  912.  U1066.77  1253.79 14l5.37 1752.7  20684
Dhange in Solid Uste Tariffs- I                          8.11     7.81  119.01    18.09   18.01   18.01    18.01    19.01
Chnge in ilicipul Tae- I                               115.6t  219.01    20.01    18.2    19.01   11.01   18.01    19.0S



- 53 -
ANNEX 11
Attachment 4
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Empresas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla (EPMB)
Consolidated Services
Income StaLement
(ColS Millions)
Returnl  Octil------ -----oject-d--
193     1S9      1995    1916    1997    199        199    199       199
Tariffs                                     1655.01 1035.0 2211.50  37.73  4.11  5119.9  7254.58 371.6410534.29
nWipd Tom                                    160.00  345.00 1917.00 1316.18 155.35  182.96  2162.9 252.1  3011.60
Othe                                         193.03   34.1   476.72  631.45   815.10  93.29   752.1  77.19   698.63
TOTE                                        2009.01 2526.11  3715.22 571.63  7031.17 865.74 10170.37 121D3.01 1 .53
rE.ses
Persel                                      1019.17 1189."  1318.50  1533.23  1947.84  2455.11 2919.4  3609.36 t3S.58
Cui-cas                                      149.90  162.00   217.91   271.15   339.79   432.00  525.tS  618.43  724.54
psr a fuel                                   415.69   179.50  2.15   27S .    379.78  473.9  575.47  693.24  801.55
lterials I rbint.                            H6.0   176.30   110.35  156.66  119.33  224.32   223.51  206.39  189.24
edrl I Others                                602.70  191.00  5s.01  634.15  790.98  983.73 119O.51 131.1  1719.73
TOTR.                                       Z253.4f 2199.24 2127.91 2998.38 3656.22 4574.04 St99.43  654.52  7791.04
kt IK0 before Oepr.                         -245.16   27.76  1357.3   213.Z5  3375.65  4111.70  4673.94 -5554.53 6615.49
lrecition (leulued)                         *116.00  140.00   378.34   499.09  623.10  786.90  99.40  1239.44  1559.65
let Opratirg Incae                          -361.4   167.76  578.46  2324.15  2755.55  331.79 3636.54 4315.09  5005.
Operating Interest                            34.03  130.00  437.63  676.54  13.21   316.35  801.71  215.32  111334
let In.ce Rfter Int.                        -15.6      9.76   540.64 1647.62  1922.34  2503.41  2894.133099.77 3902.60
-Oeratig Ina.e (kt)                           32.03  -170.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    O.0
Ikt lame                                    -413.16  -120.21   540.64  1647.62  1922.34  2509.44  2634.93 3099.77 3902.60



- 54 -
ANNEX 11
Attachment 5
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Enpresas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla (EPMB)
Consolidated Services
Working Capital Analysis
(ColS Millions)
Rctual  Rctucl ---------  Projected----
Ye.r                                             1983    191      1905    !996      1987     190      139      190      191
Rcc't Receiuabl-Uter I Sewerage              1022.00  1211.00  171H.72  2t28.08  3294.62  4393.12  5675.1Z  6821.37  92.73
Acc't Receivble-Seoid Uaste I Others Serv.   256.00   371.00  S56.00   832.33 1119.78  1391.13  1711.33  199.71  2329.09
Rcc't Receiuwbe-icipal raxes                  343.00   170.00   90.80  1303.72  1692.96 2059.65  2191.23  2871.06  3325.00
Rcc't ecuivable-Third PWtY (Int 6 fees)         61.00   130.0   179.60  239.13   309.37   392.25   111.05   65.15   741.63
Inventories I literiul in Transit             210.00   182.00   21t.08   268.81   328.16   371.99   12.41   157.09   539.37
Other Curret Rssets                              0.00     0.OD    WOO      0.0       OJO      0.00    9.00     0.00    I.0
TOTRL                                        1092.00  2367.00  3587.20  507Z.87 6713.3  8607.5 1070.14 1Z755.68 15139.61
Rccunts Pabple A S.T.Debt                      900.00  1199.00  12S9.t1  1221.16  1366.70  1193.25  155.99  1469.58  1717.73
Other Current LIab.                            22W.0    35.0   176.61   634.61   821.01  100.96  1300.51  1606.79  1968.17
Lang-Tmn  Debt lge in One Year                   6.18   21S.1   116.01   181.73   510.69   540.60   917.00  11l5.71  1173.00
TOTRL                                        1130.8  1749.   2192.10 2310.50 2698.39  3U6t.82  3623.57  122Z.06  5158.9
Uorking Capital                                761.52   617.51  1It5.10 Z732.37  4015.59  5513.03  7156.56 8533.62 9900.71
iarking Capital  eeds                                  -111.0   787.59  1327.26  1313.22  1497.44  1613.53  1377.05 1117.10
Collectians/Uillings- Z
Uater A Srage                                      701      751      75S     o0n      B0u      90t      90       95       551
Sulid Ibste                                       602      551      701      701      75Z      90Z      80S      951      952
iuial Taxes IThird Party Pagp't.                   931      61      60S      701      75Z      8U       Off      952       1Z



- 55 -
ANNEX 11
Attachment 6
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Empremas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla (EPMB)
Water Supply and Sewerage Services
Cash Flow Statement
(ColS Millions)
153      191     195       1916     1N?      19       1515     195     1M
et In=  If.hwr.- kIr  i Sewape   .             19.53  459.56   765.8 1725.3  21au37   60923  2095J   362.3  1176.95
o*"tlui Imm- U.ter I   era  I"na.               0.00   -0.00    I.0        a.w      OMK       0A.     O.       0.01    OA
lateJ     Cii Emrti.                           19.53   434.56  765.1  1725.13  2182.37  289.23 231.03   42.0  117.1
lrkiag CPUI alek                                       -72.0   315.04  663.63   66.61   719.72  IX.77   60.5    73.
Othe Iut aid *  lie                                    131.111   -1.1    69.51    75.1O    88.62   104.7   123.6   151
-'_t Sendce Ieqrwmma
Owatsal Interest ad cm.                        61.00    U0.01   362.83  516.55   727.01   691.03  153.1  10411.    77.34
-ar tit                                       110.00    6.19   215a.1    16.1   81t.13  510.66   550     761.3 1135.15
ltow    btServ                                171.00    5.6   57.31  103Z.51 1208.74  1201.71  1191.51  1509.26 Z2I.51
Cotihtia Ti vnemt                           -151.47    1.91   46.65 -D.2   111.92   570.1    79.26   41.32  121.25
Imaebwtt- Deter a Su5i
ID nI Prowet                                    0.00 N     .01  16.61   702.11  311.66  11.    1176.49  331.35   2161
ir,u ,t plant Is                             .110.00   7.20   114.50    0.50        O.W       0.10    0.00 .O0 .5 O
fibeUartks-0d                                  42.00   134.01         0.00    0.50  O.W      0.A      I.0       .01    0.0
Ot Ibis-lI.                                     0.00      .N      0.50    0.0       O.W      0.50  1735.20 I1153.6  2073.60
wtinld Interest                                52.17V    59     1O6.7   190.6Z   257.      310.50  371.66    1. 01   [0
lota Imbts                                    212.47   920.69 11J.77  812.72  2259.59 1463.9  329Z.35 z275.522 33
tlegred frhacl                                363.4   631.78  121SA.3    32.61  2097.57   353.72 2SOI.09 1433.3   55Z.5
111    .- l ea tr  tucowt                       0.00     OA      O.    592.6  1725.35   636.3   O8.66  131.t    6.40
1  ProjUet UN                                   0.00    0.00   77.ao    77.5        0.10      .0       .00    6.50      6.50
NtW  L.wFelp                                  131.0   21.    437.50        0.50     0.o       0.50  1561.6U  13ZS.52 1146.43
Itr Lim      a                                191.00  526.20       A       O.5      0.m0     0.50     o.       O50      5.oo
Tota  Lamis                                   3Z2.80    7.2.   915.30 1165.6  1721.0  636.50 2422.35  1557.62 1226.50
Cntrllutim
hauzl0 0.00   356.1                                                00       00      0..1     0          . OA.O  9.A      0.50
_bpartneat                                      D.00    0.0D   172.01  215.00   21S.O         0. 0    OI       1.0 l    0I
lotal Citbhlns                                  0.00   3412   170.00  215.50   215.0A    0.50A    0.50         O        0.5
DO      I Ci (*/-)                           -400.00   436.2   -70.13   52.31  -1S7.       -56.62   -77.75   2339  235.2
I ctributu h ; 1".A1mbIt                                            -72      --       its       251     351      321      51s
qO."ear,IMS l        '"b.0lem)                                  !50.72  151.55  1539.70  2338.51 2343.73 2617.5  2515.66



- 56 -
ANNEX 11
Attachoent 7
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Empresas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla (EPHB)
Solid Waste Removal and Other Services
Cash Flow Statement
(ColS Millions)
1903    ISh      195    19K    1t97    19U          1989    1990    1951
kt Im   Bef .0 .- Solid Unte I Other    -264.55  -166.89  591.13    1217.5 1273.27 1502.16   7m.M.6  2952.03  261.59
Ibnjwting I[cmr- Solid Unte    ther           32.00  -110.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.D6       0.66    6.w      O.
Inte-l Cash Seminm                          -232.99  -276.90   591.13  1017.UZ  12737  152.S6 17.59  2D52.03  M6.5
Urking Cpitled                                        -72.09  972.55   663.53  656.01  716.72  816.77    .53   723M.
6,her ndt and Uiab.Ned                                139.18  -60.10   69.54   75.10   19.62  104.57  123.6   145.61
Debt Sevice Re.lrments:
lpa tiosa  Ir-erst aWd Cam.                  23.0    56.00   15.    90.01   106.20   125.3t2   7.17  174.19  295.3
bortimsin                                      0.19     0.00    0.90    6A6 0 .            0.06    6.19    11.65  106.56
Total  et Service                             23.90    56.00   75.0   590.0   106.20   125.32  1U77   223.1   312.46
Co.dtribution lo Intnt                      -255.55  -10.97   101.67  256.25   435.36  539O   713.6  1056.96 1296.9
Inuestauts- 5uiJ Unite t Other
18R/&IOU Project                               0.Ot    1.60     0.90   527.00    6.OD    6.00    0.06    OA.         0.66
Treatast Pint I5                               0.0      5.00    0.0      O.       0.06     9.00    0.00    I.C       0.90
Other Uorks-1d                                -0.0      0.90    0.0      66        .A      6.90    0.00    I.W       O.
Other Uorks-W 0.0 0 0                                             C 0.0    6.0    0.6W     6.6   133.90   73.18  518.10
Capitalized Interest                           0.O      6.0 t    0.9 0   69       0.       6.00    0.09    0.0       6 OA.
Total Investets                                0.00    6.90     0.00  527.0       0.19     0.00  133.0  173.16   519.16
Required financing                           255.99  406.57  -104.67  262.75 -135.36  -539.80  -279.35  -563.56  -766.58
IN  Loan- Solid gnte   Other Cmpownent         0.00    0.90    0.0   527.0        0.90     9.0     0.0          0     .60
tTW  Project Low                               0.00    0.90    0.90      0.90     0.       00      0.00    0.90    09 0 .0
Other Lo    oreign                             0.0      0.90    O.W      0.90     O.       O.90   395.42  331.36   21512
Other Lan-Local                                0.90    0.0      0.00    0.90     O        6 O.66  0.00    1.90    6.0
Total Loa                                     O.66     0.90     00  527.00       00 0   .6   3U.A2  331.3   295.12
Contribitions
fsincipal                                      0.00    0.00    0.90    0.00       0.W    O.       0.00    I.E       0.
pare0.                                                  0.nt  0.W0 I.E  0.9       0.00    0.         010 O.9 0 .0  0.0  9.90
Total Contnbutions                             0.90     0.00    0.m      o.nt    o.oo      6.66    0.60    o.06    9.0
Clh   In Cash ("-)                          -5.00  -0.9?   104.67  264.35  435.36  539.1   676031   914.9   153.17



- 57 -
ANNEX 11
Attachment 8
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Eupremas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla (EPMB)
Consolidated Services
Cash Flow Statement
(Col$ Millions)
1913    19"      191S    IN      13       19       1t"      193n    irn
het  1xae hfiepr.- Caulibted                -245S.6   27.76  1357.31  2113.3  3375.65  9111.70  9670.9  555.53  665.41
INo-Operatiq lamor Comlidsted                 32.0  -170.        c.W      OM.      0.03    0.00    O.W      O.E        .N1
Interl Ca       h 6ewaton                   -Z13.1   157.76 135731  2113.25  3375.65 9111.71  9O."  559.53  6695.49
IMrkiq CaIt  kds                                     -1.1   797.59  12726  1313.22   I57.11  163.5  1377.S 1"7.10
0thwh.ta   Lishlheds                                  276.35  -121.68   13.U   158021   177.29   35.15   296.7   291.2Z
Det 5e.t  blursefitu
C al  l owterst aNW C.                        9.1  13.0   437.13   76.54   33.21  816.35   1.n   1215.32  11613
lburtiati.                                   11.0    SMI  215.19   410    91.73  510.6             1.60   117.1  1195.71
lota lebI Serue                              159.C0   1".11  653.3  1122.56  1319.94  1327.03  1312.31  2632.9  2320.95
Ciotnk       o l   rmeiut                            -119.5    38.11   224.32  557.29  1105.3  1505.95 1893.21  257012
mesbats
TOWlN  P.rejkt                                 0.11    0.91  183.60 1229.10 2011.8  1155., 1178.19  381.35   210.21
trae,i t Plant 35                            111.11   7.20   14.5.       O.D0    0.E       O.I    0.00       .0E     0.00
Other Ugks-Old                                12.D   131.t       0.0     I.11    O.E       0.0      0.00    O.K1    0.00
Ith.r lbrks-hi                                 D.0D    0.D1     0.01    O.O       O0.      O.E  2169.10 2367.01  2592.00
Captalized Intrat                             52.97   5B."9  160.67   139.6   247.01   301.9   378.66    O.l    0.00
Total Ioesbtmts                              212.97  910.69 1158.77 119.1512  25.4  1463.9  3726.15 2741.35  21 41
Roaed rin.rq                                 212.97  1035.75 1120.76 1195.39 12.21   353.92  22nz.i   9s0.e7   229.02
in1 Lan                                        O.       0.1     COO 12159.95  1721.89  936.3   96D0.6   131.55    86.90
rm   Prject Loon                               0.01    0.00   77.0D   477.01      0.00    O.DO    0.10       .0D     0.00
Other Lss-fwelp                              231.00  201.13  937.50    0.13       0.13     0.1  1952.10 1656.1  1935.60
OUter Leoms-Local                            191.0   526.20  m1.o        0.0 0  0.00         O.00     0.00    O.W   0.30
Tlo    Lon                                   322.00  MI2    985.30  1656.95 1729.99  836.90  2012.76  1709.90  1512.D0
oantribetimw
hnci.                                          0.OD  393.01    0.D1
DpWteL                                         0.09    0.00  171.0   21S.00  215.W0
loeb  cotriietmns                              O.K   340.09  17W809   215.00  215.0        0.0     D 0.00.  0.1      0.0W
ae I Ca  (O-)                               -9O.O0    35.15   3.51   716.55   277.69   4192.3       256  939.33  1297.91
Z Cctrilutonntoe g.IovesU't                                         31     IZt    E3         915      S       61Z      9I
I      r-Ye  EaIo.Iuest'tts.0Cm)                             1166.39 1612.66  1711.37 2 .138  2696.13 3992.3Z  299.20



- 58 -
ANNEX 11
Attachment 9
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Eupresas Publicas Municipales de Barrangullla (EPHB)
Water Supply and SeveraLe Services
Revaluation of Fixed Assets
193    196       1565     1866    15        1M       195      1550    155
Ifitif lac te- Lal                              24.0    20.0     22.m    20         16.0     18.01    16.61    11.01    1iAi
lapreciatm 3im e                                 3.0m 3.           3.01     3.       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.m
km  rixu blust  OR)                                   810.59102 01 1 14299.33 1911 .       12327.    2N32.3336154 .%535.14
kluti, Oe liR                                         1762A.5   2411.64  20596?  325615 1115MI 1    5Z27.12  6514.5 13.32
Adtio  te RA                                           398.       9 520.6S  11576   1419.72    559.A9 113.3  375.15 2741.35
Unlued GM at eVW f pr                        511m.00 IA102.00 14254.33 1911.5 231127.93 25123MI3N19A.4M5.l1 57511 11
g. A                                         190.W   916.00 122.16 1630315 20166.90 Z623.1  321315 41314.59 51911.17
kamireciatioa                                239.W9  2506.5  317.20  4216.3  5551.21  7170.52  52s19121189711527.12
bwluti  Ome in Oqr.                                    SM0D   652.319   93.69  5.22  1290.69  1664.66 2141.15  2759.1
_1ul ODeiati Ee                               116.08   110.5    378.8    9.09   629.10  ?76.90   914.10 1239.1  155
kculeulued Owr at  W of Wr                   2506.9  3147     4219.43  5551.Z1  7176.52 52491.Z 11116A 1ISD.L  1957.92
kt rFzd Asets at end of  e630.00  7914                         .911   75.91276.76 151R7.31 20M     2t21C6A11 57.03 37953.9
rge  Net Fixed Ats  in Openratl               795 9  7059.40  8 5.3511416.33 14309.11 201.7 222 .54 27726.95 345. 51



- 59 -
ANNEX 11
Attachment 10-A
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Eupresas Publicas Municipales de Barranguilla (EPMB)
Consolidated Services
(Col$ Millions)
Yew                                            1903    1901    195B     1956    1517    1II    1909    1950    1991
IBW LOl
Oisbaruts                 Tt1    157.3D    0.00         0.00    8.00  1139.W  1521.60  52.00  12.00  131.50    6.10
1cwM.Dishrwments                     23.99     0.OO     0.00    0.00 1139.0  2711.55  3472.91  1263.71   773.90 460.30
bortitern                                      9.00    0.09    0.oo    o.o 0      .0L     l.OB    0.09  243.23   532.JO
Lan bladme                                     O.0     0.00    0.00  1139.001 274.55 3472.94  4263.74  40.62  49.22
Interet                  Interest-    9.31    0.00      .00    0.00   52.5   181.35  293.12  371.11  426.5   40.59
Clttnent fee                                   0.00   0.0    0.00   27.95   15.91   10.U9    4.55          .72
frent Eid fee
Total Interest 1 fees                          0.3O    0.00    0.08   90.5   200.29  300.90  371.66  427.27   400.59
Of thich is Capitalized and Financed           0.3     0.00    0.0    90.95  200.29  300.90  379.66    0.W          0.0I
kcew.Interust I fees Ca talized                0.00    0.00    0.00   o0.95   211.24  S90.14  561.30  50.30  596.3
0.00    0.1I    1.01      1.10    1.57    1.62    1.39
*IS Project Elited Loan (CS an)
Dsbrsemnts               Total-    931.03                     4s5.00  477.0      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.0
keu.Ihsbrseents                       4.93     0.00    0.00  454.00  931.00  931.00  931.00  931.03  531.0   931.00
herzation                                      0.00    Dii    0.00  103.4   103."   103.44   103."   103.44   103.94
Loan blance                                    0.00    0.00  454.00  927.56   724.12  620.69  517.214  113.01   310.36
Interest                 [nterest-   25.01    0.00    0.00   29.30   160.19  193.6   161.10  142.24  116.39    90.5Z
Cwittent fee                                   0.0     0.
front End fee
Total Interest A Fees                          0.00    0.00   28.30  160.19  193.56   169.10  112.21  116.3   950.52
Of Uhich is Capitalized                        o.Ko    0.oo    0.00    0.00    0.3o    0.09    0.0o    0.00    0.3
ccum.lnterest I Fees Capitalized                       0.3      0.00    0.3      0.00     0.0o    0.09    0.3       0.3
hc de Pans 13 (ES no)
Oisbamu ts                rotwl     1I557                     109.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.0       0.03
Rcee.Disbursements                    1.K5                    189.00  195.    185.3   199.00  1i9.00  1i9.    189.03
hmorttian                                                       0.00   29.5    29.56    Z.5    29.5    28.56   29.56
Loan Balme                                                    189.00  160.04   131.09  102.12   73.16   "4.20    15.24
interest                 Interests    9.5                       7.80   15.04   12.01      9.62    7.23    4.94    2.45
Coutttnent fre
front End fee
Total Interest I fees                                           7.80   15.01   12.01      9.62    7.23    1.4    2.45
Of tldch is Capitalized                                         7.80    0.oo    0.00      0.       0.00    0.00    0.3



- 60 -
ANNEX 11
Attachment 10-B
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Ewpresas Publicas Municipales de Barranguilla (EPMB)
Long-Term Debt Analysis
(CalS Millions)
IeU                                           e.e e            0.1  I11.95 1724.m9  836.3  860.66  131.50    6.s11
Imco de Paris 3                               1.oA     0.1   196.U1    O.W      .A       .A       0.11    0.11    l.W
kmlde dPns (11 S 2)                          7e.Oe  201.10  210.71
Otur rwp L.a                                                                                   1552.10 1656.se 1125.61
IffOPl    /UAIMA K.                          53.11     0.00
Siho                                        131.0   211.0  137.50  I219.95  1721.19  836.9  2Z12.76 171.10 Is2.1Z
Locl
gmU Ceuitara  LaM                                             77.01  177.11     I.1      0.1      9.00    O.1     1.1
ff11 Imgamiag UV                                             377.11    0.101 .0.1        0.1   1   .00    0.A      OA
cm'1 , I  NF1k                                       526.28
Others.                                     151.11     0.00   93.1
Local La. is
Loc  Lam 16
Sittl                                       151.11   526.20  517.11  477.11     c.oe      .1 1 0          0.1      OAE
StEEY: KETINIIE
arwelga
log L.a91 0. 110.1 0.                                                    11     I.E.0   0.00 1O    5.1   241323  SUA
hac de Pis 3                                                   0.1D     29.55   29.5     2956   28.56   21.96  211.6
wa. de Pas<U (31 )                                     0.1     51.94  109.14  127.12  141.24  15.72  135   111.30
..w, romp Lu
ISPIEL'UI MIIE.                              50.11     6.11   51.3    59.12   7n.55    19.U   10S.32  12.11  147.16
Sbtl                                         s5.11     6.1   103.52  15.92  23W.13  259.1   285.11  56.19          .11
LOCal
FF1 Cm1       r        0tiiw DL.1                      G.E     0.11  I3.44   153.1t  183.44   13.t  1U3.11  103.1
om'1    stw                                   0.1      0.11   S8.9.t7   58.47   51.17   59.47   51.47   S.7   51.47
IWOPE AM        Mn.                          60a.1     0.1   S3.20   97.21   15.69   n1.69   ll.65   116     31.
Shtatal                                      6D.11    0.1   111.67  2MA.U   251.60   251.681  251.60  2.S0  251.60
Sows CIPJIKe  I9          5 (Cs M)
tweigp
in  LM                                          .0A    O.J   OGe    0.5   291.29  309.3   371.66    o.11    0.e
Faegal Lam 32
B         deParis                             7.16   15.15   36.45             47.52
IUe ol,amfDNIM       .                       15.32     0.11    OA       O.ee    0.oe
Si*ttl                                       52.41    15.19   36.15   W0AS   217.91  35.3D  371.66    01           0.11
fUm Project  atedLon                           .00    0.00    0.11    0.11    0.11       O D    0 A      0.1      O.
BUfr  sla0.10 1    4.30  124.22  105.67   .OA
Sihtd                                         O.00   t.30  1.22  109.67    O.OD          O    O0.11    0.11    0.1



- 61 -
ANNEX 11
Attachment 10-C
COLONBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Empresas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla (EPMB)
Long-Term Debt Analysis
to0 UN                                                          I.e      0.90    I.ED     eU   O .tD  427.27   4KS
11m  de Paris 13                                                .DO     15.0     12.3     5.62     7.23    4.34     Z.S
incs de Paris CI  2)                           o.e      0.  0    .00    s2.70   45.50   WOE   31.70   23.67   12.3
other
IlWIP     U                                    o.e     0.00  119.70  14.30   150.6   151.40  166.29  169.64  172.1
Sbaltt                                         Q.e     0.00   110170   202.09   m11.s   212.02   201.22  625.41  50.123
Rou Cnatuprt4tiw  La                            .U      I.E    23.33   168.15 193.56   161.10   IR.24   116.31   30.52
EmIl 1    ii                                   I. s      .ED    OA.      O.O     95.10   U.N     65AU    D.50    36.20
DBu                                             .IE    I.E   148.75   134.3   115.76   105.10   09.70   73.65   56.9
SStMII                                        N .E      O.E   177.13   24.49 501.02  353.78  297.74  210.53   15.22
SUIlEYIKN  1.1. KIT STIIS
Frrn  nmutSd (5 m.qw.)
hg2fJriae                                     10.91   11.96   13.3    16.35   22.37    29.2    32.54   43.02   47.67
iul.Cmms                                       1S    1.55    3.24        7.13     6.71    3.E    11.67   .1         5.25
artuztian                                      0.63    I.E      0.77     1.15     1.16    113      112     2.15     3.10
Cwiplizud Ineest efleeced                      I.E     I.   e .e         0.43     1.01    1.40    1.S7    I.E       U.K
braIS   Inteest                               .oE      I.O      9.32     1.15     1.7    0.56      1.86    2.301    2.3
End Yriae                                     UI.56    13.3    16.35    22.37   29.52   32.54   43.62   47.67   45.3
rwap  _ids ed (CS siuu.)
he.Yr.ince                                   7e.5   1U61.77 1573.35  2554.3  4185.6*  650.46  7411101037.5212s2.0A
hu smmts                                     131.00  211.E0  437.5  1215.5  1724.39  336.3  2z12.76 1733.1  S112.00
harttzatm                                     9.       6.3   103.32   156.92  23013   2559       25.09  56.46   05.11
Citalized Ineest re.td                         I       G.e      O.D      e.9ss  ZOOM    30e.30  373.66    O.A       0.0A
Operatiod nltert                               03      I.e   110.70   2J    211.55   212.02   21.22  62S.41  5S1.23
Excide  ate Idjsstmt                         211.83   32z2.e   642.5   5S31.5   746.0   432.32  10i0.66  71.64  1535.53
End Yr.hlanc                                151.77  17.35  255.93  4109   635.46  741.101 137.52125.0 I       1A515.5
3u.56  642.5S   S3I.55   746.10   432.62  10Z.66  751.64 1S53.53
Lecal niret (ES l)
Ieg.Yr.hlabe                             739.0A    061.   13373 Z   1323.33 D2E2    1755.61  154i.01 1256.41  109.81
sbu ets                                      191A    sz6.2   54     7.     01    nE 0.00           I 8.ee   OA      03.t
Ihurza                                        69.00    I.e   111.67   24512  251.60   251.60  251.60  21.60  21.69
Cetltled I erd est fle d                       Oi       .E      I.e      I.e 0.00    0e.l0    0.0A         O.       0.E
Iperatal Ineest                               N.E0    0.E   177.13   259.4   10.62  3W3.70   257.4  24e.53   133.22
End Yralance                                 361.00  1317.20 1623.33  20511.  17b.61  1541.91  125.41  1014.3   753.21
C.slidibt L.l. leilt (ES m.eq.)
Du.Yr.1lace                                 1i5.5  15U22.77 2565.5  4378.31  6160.0  8191.06  3555102233.53 13563J
Ihswrsvmts                                   322.W   727.21    5.3e  1656.95  1724.81  336.3  2II.76 1 A.4O 1512.
IurUtza                                      110*00    6.41  Z15.49   44.0   411.73  510.66  540.69 173  1145.7S
Cwtelue  Interest rie.d                        A      I.A      0.00 u  095       0.z2M   300.3   378.66    0.01    OeA
teratis  Ineest                               N.0       I.e   237.53  456          620.0    565.72  se5.566-3   7M7.S
Etuh      t &juutnt                          211.83  322.06  62.5s  531.59  74613   42.82 102.66  791.61  1515.93
End  r.hlac                                 1522.77 2565.55 4371.31  6168.E  8150.56  MID5012233.593136.19 IS9.11



- 62 -
ANNEX 11
Attachment 11
COLOMBIA
BARRANQJILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Eupresas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla (EPMB)
Cnnsolidated Services
Balance Sheet
(ColS Millions)
Endof the wr                                  1993    19"      1595    1916    199?      199    1569     15n    1591
tos  ried bssets                           810.90 IO92.9914259.3133119623027.8328432.333615MU     .S464351957541.61
Rccera tzun                                2506.00 3147.0  4211.3  5551.27170.52  52M 912 111.1  152M.11 1557.62
Ne rixed PRts                              6391.09  718tE010075.910    017615957.31210711 1242K  A311S7.03 37553.59
Urk iL Procss                                39.47  1379.16 1609.21  1569.19 2799.6  1913.37  175.62 3197.12  3251.71
Cal                                          76.50  111.95  116.   1863.11 11492  10.1  2m6.27 315450   442.5
Ikowits Recewbe                            1682.99  2195.00 3373.13 40.06 6,15.83  1235.6 10367.73 12515 IIES
Iwitwiesudla ttls                           219.11  182.1   214.99  269.81  321116  371.5   4123.1  4S7.0l  53537
flUe tareat Ibsts                             0.u     E.M      0.n     O.0   OI.E        3.99    9.W     QU       O.
Tot  (wrest lbsts                          1561.5   2 .9.55  3733.59 5935.91  799.71 10231.55 IZ55.  L913.2915592.19
OUher bsts                                   66.OS  570.II   695.40  134.49  911.69 1161.93 1371 61617-17  1935.65
TITIL SETS                                 917J.O2 1233.91 16113.23 2100.332 73.67 33591.?7 49.98 SU13.  626l.91
Ilcits Paabe 5 .1.                          59.10  1189.99.W  1259.U  1 .16 1366.7D  1S93.25  IS3 .3  14695   1717.73
lither Curent Liii.                         224.01  345.19   m6.64  639.6   921.M 1  1049.96 13011.51 165.79  1563.17
LanTern Oet lnin Oe YTr                       6.3  2s.9   446.04  41.73  519.63   540.60  817.0114S.71  1473.99
ltet  Curret Liaities                      113.43  1745.4  212.10 2340.9  206.39  306.92   35? 4222.06 5153.
Long-Term OMb-See Pld.ClI.                  3W.9D  1027.   1E11.39 17q.31  1667.39  1335.23  95.69  625.57  25421
-other                        116.   1722.6 212B.9  3693.71 5971.99  7093.22 111271C 12Z1.20 192.51
Owr UabItties                               7.4    39.09  115.09  115.99  11S.W  315.9   15.99  115.   1115E
TOlT ULIETIITES                            3757.17 5R37.55  7155.36 9M2.5711522.78 iZ6.32 U2Z.42 1132Z.U 299.ZI0
Retained sins                             -1021. -111.2  -6U.61 1047.02 2959.36  5477.1       1362.6M 11462.415365.A
C.trilbutis                                 461.0      .     57.9  1159.99 1995.9   109JD   141.00    105.00145MA
Rlued Supl                                 559M.5 7121.60 9935.47 9959.74 11S39.913535.51619.522175335 25102.57
TOT1 ECfIR                                 5129.5  6756.36  813.17 12195.76 1912.J 20922.7521i.56 33 .75 11876.97
TOTRE LIE. 9 EOIY                          9179.021223.91 16113.23 21409.33 27935.67 33151.07 42935.53519013A  66956.3
1  ebdtAit(quty                              52S   13.11   17.0    1.11           5.51    6.01    3.61    1.91    06
urrecnt Rtio                                  1.74    1.2      1.71    Z.54    2.92    3.34    3.59    3.77    3.10



- 63 -
ANNEX 12
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Empresas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla (EPMB)
Key Performance Targets
------------------ - ----------                            - -------     ----  ---  -   -- --~- ------ ----   
1986    1907    1989    1999    1990    1991
---------------------------                                ----- --- ------------     --  ---      
OPERRTIONS:
Uater Connections Year End ('000)                                      111.60  127.60  113.60  l'i.60  157.60  163.60
Uater Connections Ulth Meters ('000)                                    25.W0   15.00   65.00   60.00    95.m    50.oo
Severage Connections Year End ('000)                                    9S.70  101.D   113.00  119.00   124.03   12.03
NImber of Standpipes Year End                                                      20       40       SO     S        SO
Unaccounted-for Uater-l                                                    t2S     010      381      36t     341      32Z
fINRNCIRL
Uater and Sewerage Seruices
Overage Uater Tanff (Constant '05 CS)                                   15.93   19.93    19.93   19.93   19.83   15.93
Average REuenue/13 Sold (Constant '65 CS)                               39.93   39.73   37.90   35.51    31.92    31.76
Ruerage CostA3 Sold (Constant '85 CS)                                   23.95   21.57   24.52   21.13   21.01   2i.13
Z Cantribution to Rug.1nuestn't a/                                          m2     101      201      301     30S      301
lumber of Eiployees/1000  ater Conn.                                     6.70    6. 70    6.70    6.70    6.70    6.70
Rnnual Collectiowsillings-80                                                         SSea  az  St   895     90t      90t
Other Seruices
limber of Employe- Other Seruices                                         758      758     758      750      750     750
Rnnul Coiiection/Dillings- Solid Uaste                                     751     901    a85        859     50S      901
Annual Collection/Bzilings- rmucipal Taxes                                 702     75?      80      O95       90S     90t
Consolidated
I Collections Pledged For S.I.Debt Service b/                               Si      5!       SZ      S5      5        Si
I Contrbution to Rug.lnuestn't a/                                          O0      101      20      30S     30t      30S
IBiO Project
Project Investments (USS nn eqmuiv.) c/                                  7.71   11.17    6.65    6.1        1.45    0.73
EFfi Counterpart Funds (USS rn equiv) d/                                 0.00    0.40    1.70    2.80    0.90    0.10
al Net incae bef.depreciation nims working capital and debt service requireats including
rescheduled paynents to creditors divided by auerage investments for preceding year, current year, and follmang year.
br Proportion of annual collections from all services and numicipal rperty taxes
pledged to cavncal banks to cover debt seruice obligations on short-term louts.
ct Excludes working capital conponent but includes capitalized interest on IBiO loan which Dank finances.
d:  xcludes EItWs cmtribution to incremental uorking capital needs.



- 64 -
ANNEX 13
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Tariff Structure for Metered Residential Water Consumption
Approved in May 1985 by JNT                    a/
Socio-Economic     Fixed            Charge for Consumption (Col$/m3)
Category of       Charge                 Consumption Range (m3)
Customer       (Col$/m3)      0-10   11-30    31-50    51-100    >100
Low-low                75         2.0     5.0      14.0     22.0      30.0
Low                   125         3.0     6.0      14.0     22.0      30.0
Medium-low            200         4.0     7.0      14.0     22.0      30.0
Medium                300         5.0     8.0      14.0     22.0      30.0
Medium-high          450          6.0     9.0      14.0     22.0      30.0
High                  600         7.0    10.0      14.0     22.0      30.0
a/ Implemented starting July 1985 and thereafter to be increased by 1.82
per month.



COLOMsIA
WMEZUELA           -  ) be ..i                        BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
?      tI    VWN{tUfiA       _  .        1
ollp %I5 s  *   Sb                                                 Water Supply System
C0 L . M M  I                                                                    /
3AZIL
%----u
I  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
#4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.
0~~~~~~~~~~~IA 
.'~~~~~~~~~~~~ .~~~~~~~~~~~g7~~~~MM






