Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Axt >63>- co
Report No. P-4123-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
O'N A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$24 MILLION
TO THE
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS MUNICIPALES DE BARRANQUILLA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
November 8, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso - Col$
Average Calendar 1984
US$1   = ColS 100.8
ColS   = US$0.00 99
Exchange Rate Effective October 27, 1985
US$1.00   = Col$161.61
Col$1.00 = US$0.0062
Weights and Measures
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF U BRKVTATIONS
DNP              Departamento Nacional de Planeac-on
(National Planning Departme_t)
EAAB             Empresa de Akueductoo y Alcantarillados de Bogota
(Water and Sewerage Company of Bogota)
EPM              Eapresas Publicas de nedslen
(Medenlin Public Companies)
EPMB             Empresas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla
(Barranquilla Municipal Companies)
FFDU             Fondo Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano
(Fund for Urban Development)
tNAS             Inetituto Nacional de Salud
(National Institute of Health)
JAC              Junta de Accion Coimunal
(Neighborhood Action Comuittee)
INSFOPAL         Iastituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
(National Inetitute for Urban Development)
JNT              Junta Nacional de Tarifas
(National Tariff Board)
HSP              Ministerio de Salud Publica
(Mlnistry of Public Health)
This document has a resricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
tiecr official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be discioed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
COLOMBIA
BPARPAQUILIA UkTER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECr SUMMARY
Borrower:        Empresas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla (EPNB)
Guarantor:       Republic of Colombia.
Amount:          US$24 million equivalent.
Terms:           17 years, including a grace period of 4 years, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Description:     Sector.  The fiscal and external borrowing constraints
imposed by the Government's recently adopted macro-
economic stabilization and reform program require
increased operating efficiency and internal resource
mobilization of utilities in the water supply sector if
increased service coverage is to be achieved. The
Government is consequently now reexamining sector-wide
policies and institutional arrangements and increasingly
emphasizing projects which focus on cost-recovery,
rehabilitation of water works and more selective invest-
ments in system expansion.
Project. The proposed project would primarily support
programs to: (a) rehabilitate and extend water supply,
sewerage and solid waste management facilities in
Barranquilla, Colombia's 4th largest city. About 70
percent of the beneficiaries of this program reside in the
city's lower income areas; and (b) promote the
institutional development of EPMB by strengthening its
management, administration and operating efficiency.  Such
improvements should, in turn, restore the company's finan-
cial viability, enabling EPMB, by 1989, to generate suffi-
cient funds from internal sources to finance a reasonable
share of its investment requirements. The project would
include the provision of equipment, civil works and
technical assistance for these purposes as well as
consultants' services for preparation of subsequent
network expansion to meet demand in the 1990s.
Risks            Project risks center primarily around potential discon-
tinuity of management staff and insufficient political
support at the municipal level to fully implement the
financial and institutional development programs. To
mitigate these risks, EPMB has as condition of loan pro-
cessing already markedly increased tariffs and taken steps
to stabilize operating costs. Technical assistance
support, legal covenants, and close Bank supervision
should further lower the level of these risks.



- il -
Estimated Project Costs:                  US$ million---
Foreign  Local    Total
Water Supply                       7.7     8.0      15.7
Sewerage                           0.3     0.6       0.9
Solid Waste                        3.6     0.4       4.0
Institutional Improvement          1.8     1.9       3.7
Studies/Engineering                0.1     1.3       1.4
Incremental working capital        2.5     3.7       6.2
Base cost 1/2/                    16.0    15.9      31.9
Physical Contingencies             1.3     1.2       2.5
Price/Exch.Rate Contingencies    2.3       0.5       2.8
Total Project Cost                19.6    17.6      37.2
Interest during construction       4.4      -        4.4
Total Financing Required          24.0    17.6      41.6
Financing Plan:
EPMB Internal Cash Generation       -      9.9       9.9
FFDU                                -      3.4       3.4
Department of Atlantico             -      4.3       4.3
IBRD                              24.0      -       24.0
Total Financing                   24.0    17.6      41.6
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year
1986     1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
-US$ Hillion          -
Annual                          1.5      8.7    6.4    4.2    2.3    0.9
Cumulative                      1.5     10.2   16.6   20.8   23.1   24.0
Rate of Return:          n.a.
1/ Includes about US$2.0 million of value-added tax.
2/ In June 1985 prices.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS MUNICIPAIES DE BARRANQUILLA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and reco mendation on a proposed loan
to the Empresas Publicas Muncipales de Barranquilla for the equivalent of
US$24.0 million to help finance a Barranquilla Water Supply Project.
The loan would have a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 and its report
(4444-CO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1983. A
mission to review the external sector and agriculture visited Colombia during
April/May 1983, and its report (4981-CO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in April 1984. Macroeconomic policies were also reviewed in the
President's Report (P4055-CO) for the Trade Policy and Export Diversification
Loan of May 2, 1985. Country data sheets are presented in Annex I.
A. Background
3.        The Colombian economy has made considerable progress since the
early 1950s, evolving from a largely agricultural and rural base, integrated
and industrialized, into one that is more open. The growing economic
activity, rapid rural-urban migration, increased participation of women in
the labor force, and expanded public services have contributed to reductions
in poverty and improvements in income distribution. Financial and capital
markets have evolved pari passu with the growing needs of the economy, and
the country has become an active participant in international capital
markets. The state enterprises are few, follow adequate pricing policies,
and many have some form cf private sector participation. The country's
energy balance has been changing in recent years and the country is expected
to become a net petroleum exporter in 1986 and, increasingly, an exporter of
theiriial coal.
4.        Export promotion has been a concern of the Colombian authorities
for some time. Beginning in 1967 authorities adopted an outward-looking
development strategy, expanding and diversifying exports. Export promotion
policies, including frequent small devaluations of the peso, export tax
rebates and other incentives were introduced and the authorities began lower-
ing tariffs somewhat and relaxing capital market controls as a means of
raising efficiency and increasing the profitability and competitiveness of
Colombian goods in external markets. These measures were successful in
relieving the foreign exchange constraint and stimulating growth and
employment.



B. Economic Performance During the 1970.
5.        In the mid 1970's, the economy was subjected to strong inflationary
pressures from a sharp increase in world coffee prices. The increased
receipts from coffee exports, together with some official surrender of
foreign exchange from illegal exports, caused a turnaround in the balance of
payments. Incomes rose rapidly stimulating aggregate demand, and inflation
accelerated. Economic growth also rose, and unemployment fell substantially
in rural and urban areas. Largely as a consequence of increased coffee tax
revenues, the public finances generated overall surpluses averaging about 1%
of GDP during 1976-78 and, by the end of 1979, net official international
reserves had risen to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to about 12 months
imports of goods and non-factor services.
6.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had
some negative effects. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed and the
conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the growth
of domestic demand, with adverse effects on non-coffee exports. The
Governmenc also sought to check inflation by maintaining high reserve
requirements and expanding controls over credit thereby reducing, in real
terms, the financing available to the private sector through the official
capital market.
7.        The 1977-79 economic program was partially successful in restrain-
ing aggregate demand growth, but relatively high inflation persisted. In
response to increasing restraint on aggregate demand and troublesome
financial market distortions, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust
the program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced somewhat, and in
early 1980 credit restraints were relaxed.  At the same time, interest rates
on certificates of deposit-and on lending therefrom-were freed from
controls. To offset the inflationary effects of these measures, the authori-
ties further liberalized import payments and adopted the policy of not
expanding the subsidized selective credit operations of the Central Bank in
excess of the resources captured from private savings for this purpose. Real
GDP growth decelerated to 4% in 1980 from an average of almost 6% since 1960,
unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures continued.
C. Recent Economic Developments
8.        During 1981-83 the economic situation took a turn for the worse in
part on account of external factors, with real GDP growth slowing down to
2.3% in 1981 and about 1% on average in 1982-83. Agricultural output was
hard-hit as a result of low international prices, reduced input use and
adverse weather. Industrial activity deteriorated on account of depressed
aggregate demand, and unutilized capacity continued to increase, particularly
in manufacturing. Unemployment reached almost 14% of the labor force at the
end of the year, up from about 7% at the end of 1981. Inflation, however,
slowed down in 1983 to a 20% average for the year, down from 28% in 1981 and
25% in 1982.
9.        After experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit of about
US$1.4 billion emerged in the resource balance in 1981 and increased to
average about US$1.8 billion in 1982-83. These deficits resulted mainly from



- 3 -
a drop in exports in real terms: in addition to domestic factors, major
reasons were the slowdown in world demand, major devaluations and import
restrictions in neighboring countries, and the reduction in Colombia's coffee
exports from their previous high levels. Net foreign exchange reserves
declined by about USS1.8 billion in 1983 to about US$3.1 billion, equivalent
to about six months of imports of goods and non-factor services. On the
fiscal side, a slowdown in revenue growth, together with increased current
expenditures resulting from a system of automatic transfers and large infra-
structure investments in energy and transport led to growing deficits: the
overall Central Government cash deficit grew from 2.1% of GDP in 1980 to 4.1%
in 1983, while that of the consolidated public sector rose from 3.6% to 7.0%.
10.       In 1983 the Government introduced policies to stimulate aggregate
demand, and expand non-coffee exports. The rate of peso devaluation was
accelerated; the housing construction industry was provided with incentives
to mobilize more resources; and selective credit to the productive sectors
was expanded. Temporary import restrictions were introduced for stabiliza-
tion in addition to measures to reduce the fiscal deficit and ease distor-
tions in the financial system. These efforts were insufficient to reverse
the deteriorating trends particularly in light of the tight international
capital market. Colombia, unlike other Latin American countries, has not had
a debt problem because of the high share of official debt in total debt out-
standing and the term structure of such debt. Nevertheless, the Latin
American debt problem produced a reduction in the credit lines available to
Colombia and difficulties in obtaining medium-term loans needed to complete
ongoing projects, which contributed in turn to further declines in foreign
exchange reserves and to strains in the financial system.
11.       During 1984-85 Government policy began to focus increasingly on:
additional revenue and expenditure measures to contain the fiscal deficit and
monetary expansion; acceleration of the exchange rate devaluations, further
increased incentives to exports; measures to improve the profitability of the
commercial banking and to resolve the external debt problems of the private
sector. The policy reforms began to take hold during the second half of
1984. Real GDP growth increased to 3.1%, the unemployment rate fell to 13%
of the labor force at year's end while inflation was brought down to 16.4% on
average in 1984. Merchandise exports grew at over 16% in nominal terms
compared to 1983; the current account deficit in the balance of payments was
reduced by about US$1 billion to 5% of GDP. The losses in foreign exchange
reserves, which had accelerated during the first half of 1984, were reduced
during the second half of 1984 and reserves remained at about US$1.8 billion
(four months of goods and n.f.s. imports). The policies have been deepened
in 1985 and the results to date, on the whole, have been positive. Inflation
remains under control, while economic growth has picked up modestly, although
the unemployment rate remains higher than in recent years. The balance of
payments position has been stabilizing.
D. Growth and Balance of Payments
12.       With further adjustments during 1985-86, Colombia's growth
prospects for the rest of the decade are good. The current account deficit
of the balance of payments is projected to average about US$1.3 billion per
year during 1985-86, equivalent to about 4% of GDP. The deficit is projected
to be financed bv increasing disbursements of existing and new public and



- 4 -
private sector loans and by direct foreign investment. By the end of this
period, net official International reserves would have been maintained at a
level of about four and a half months of imports of goods and non-factor
services. This should be sufficient to support an average growth of real GDP
of 2.5% during 1985-86. Total investment will have to be maintained at over
18.5Z of GDP to complete energy and mining projects; and to avoid too large
an increase in foreign indebtedness, gross domestic savings would need to
average about 18% of GDP compared to 16.42 during 1981-84, with the public
sector generating a significant part of the additional savings. Beyond 1986,
real GDP growth should resume at near historical rates, about 4.5% per year
on average. The current account deficit should also improve rapidly from
1987 on as a result of increasing export proceeds from new non-traditional
exports (particularly crude petroleum and coal), declining to some 1.6% of
GDP by 1990.
13.       Total gross external medium- and long-term capital requirements
(including the private sector) are projected to total about USS5.6 billion
for the 1985-86 period. Net foreign investment is expected to account for
US$750 million during 1985-86, most of which would be to complete existing
energy projects. About US$3.9 billion is expected from multilateral,
bilateral and other sources, while about US$1 billion will be the new m6ney
needed from commercial banks mainly to complete petroleum and coal projects
for export. At the end of 1984, Colombia's public and nublicly guaranteed
medium- and long-term external debt, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
US$8.0 billion (22% of GDP).  The Bank/IDA share of this external debt i.e.
excluding non-guaranteed private was 22.8% which is expected to reach less
than 25% by 1986. The public debt service ratio in 1984 was 23.5% and is
expected to peak at about 30% in 1987 and then decline gradually to below 30%
in 1990. The World Bank's share in M&LT public debt service (excluding non-
guaranteed private) is expected to be less than 24% during 1985-86. With
sound economic and financial management and the development of new export
activities, Colombia is expected to maintain its creditworthiness through and
beyond the 1985-90 period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
14.     The proposed loan, the 116th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to USS5,029.2 million (net of cancel-
lations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of September 30, 1985, USS3,758.3
million; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961.
Disbursements have been comple'.eJ on 72 loans and the IDA credit. Before
1979, disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, but had
increased to US$286 million in FY84 and to USS591 million in FY85, reflecting
in part the higher level of commitments in the late 1970s and efforts to
build the pipeline. While disbursements in Colombia have been slower than
those recorded in the Latin American Region for similar projects,
concentrated efforts to overcome problems and to speed the initiation of
project execution have resulted Ait a significant increase in disbursements
during FY84 and FY85. Improving performance of social sector institutions in



the execution of Bank-financed projects, the gradual containment of
inflationary pressures and the effects of the recently-introduced fiscal
reforms, which should improve counterpart funding, all point to a higher
level of disbursements in the future. IFC has made investments and
underwriting commitments of US$144.2 million in 29 enterprises and as of
September 1985, it held US$67.3 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments as of September
30, 1985.
15.       Since the initial loan was made in 1949, Bank lending to Colombia
has become quite diversified. Although through the mid-1960s, 88X of the
loans made were for power or transport, since then the Bank has broadened its
participation in lending for agriculture and industry, and initiated lending
for irrigation and watershed management, education, water supply, telecommu-
nications, urban development, l)etroleum development, export diversification,
nutrition and health. By the late 1970s, 53Z of the loans made to Colombia
were for projects other than transport and power. Of the loans made since
1978, 37% were for power and transport, 15Z for industry, 18Z for agriculture
and irrigation, 8% for water supply, 6% for urban, 4% for telecommunications,
2% each for petroleum development and export diversification and 8% for
education, nutrition and multipurpose projects. The diversification has
indeed helped provide close contact with a broader range of Colombia's
development problems. The experience gained has served to identify areas in
which the Bank's role can be a marginal one and, thus, to enable lending to
be focused upon sectors in which the Bank's presence can have a meaningful -
impact.
16.       The Bank's dialogue with the Government through its lending
activity has focused upon the need to mobilize additional domestic resources,
to diversify and expand exports, to develop rapidly the country's energy
resources, and to free the economy from excessive controls. The discussions
involved fiscal, interest rate and pricing policies, as well as incentives
for exports and reduction in the level of effective protection. Positive
results have been obtained particularly in the power sector, where power
rates were increased sharply and a least-cost expansion was formulated and
launched. Similar results have been achieved in respect of some other public
services, including appropriate charges for water for irrigation and domestic
use and petroleum prices.
17.       The Bank has been supporting the Government's efforts to iv -ease
economic growth and exports with financial stability, raise utilization of
domestic energy sources, provide key infrastructure, and improve the living
conditions of the poor. More recently, in response to Colombia's adjustment
process the thrust of the Bank's support has shifted towards loans to finance
directly productive activities, such as agriculture and industry, support
efforts to raise productivity, income and employment, increase and diversify
exports and help develop renewable sources of energy through lending for
hydropower and arranging associated cofinancing. Loans recently approved by
the Board and in advanced stage of preparation reflect the emphasis on:(i)
increasing output rapidly; (ii) reorienting production towards exports and
efficient import-competing goods; (iii) suporting quick-yielding
infrastructure investments, particularly those that enable the use of
existing facilities more intensively; and (iv) increasing resource
mobilization.



- 6 -
18.       The Bank's lending in FY85 consisted of loans for agricultural
diversification, small-scale industry, petroleum, development banking, water
supply and sewerage and trade policy and export diversification, totalling
JSS707.5 million. Thne trade policy loan is designed to support the first
1hase of trade policy adlustments in Colombia. Besides the already approved
T.ublic health, port rehabilitation and electricity distribution projects,
work is underway on projects for irrigation rehabilitation, agricultural
technology transfer, and financial sector management. In infrastructure, the
Bank is stressing rehabilitation, modernization and a more intenslve use of
the existing facilities in ports rehabilitation, water supply and rural
feeder roads. Finally, several projects in preparation will also support the
Government's efforts to help the poorer segments of the Colombian
population. Proposed lending for further rural development, agricultural
credit, and water supply and waste, will help improve the standard of living
of the poor, while being designed to make better use of existing capacity and
reduce losses.
19.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex
I. While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total
external financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has
decreased since then to some 49% for the 1975-82 period and is expected to
decline further to about 40% of external capital requirements during the
eighties. IDB has given increased emphasis to energy-related projects, in
addition to those for low-cost housing, urban and rural development, agrarian
reform, university education, water supply, rural electrification and land
erosion control, which are aimed at improving living standards of the
lower-income population. In the future, it proposes to assist Colombia in
developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive sector
activities to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported
programs in education, rural development and small farm development, but is
phasing out its program in Colombia. The Governments of Canada, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional
financing for basic needs and regional integration projects.
PART III - WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
The Setting
20.       Colombia's population (28 million in 1983) is currently growing at
an annual rate of 2.1%, down from 3.0% in 1964, due primarily to a rapid
fertility decline since 1964. The spatial distribution of the population has
also changed considerably in recent years. As a result of high rural-urban
migration, the share of the urban population has more than doubled,
increasing from 31% in 1938 to over 66% currently. The four largest cities
(Bogota, Cali, Medellin and Barranquilla), each with more than a million
residents, now account for about a half of the total urban population. The
small (10,000-50,000) and intermediate-size (50,000-500,000) cities, each
account for about a quarter of the total urban population.



21.       About 83% of Colombia's urban population has access to piped water
through house connections, and about 65% is served by a waterborne sewerage
system. In rural areas about 182 of the Population has access to piped water and
only about 10% to adequate sanitation facilities. Although, with these service
levels, Colombia compares favorably with most middle-income countries in the
Region, the quality of service remains deficient, particularly in poor urban
neighborhoods and rural areas where water- and sanitation-related diseases rank
among the principal causes ol illness and death. Water pollution is rapidly
becoming a major problem in rivers and streams downstream of most large cities
which discharge their sewage without treatment. In 1982, infant mortality, which
can be partially attributed to poor water quality and sanitation conditions, was
54 in 1,000 live births in Colombia, as compared with 27 in Chile, 39 in
Venezuela, 44 in Argentina and 53 in Mexico.
Sector Organization
22.       The water supply and sewerage sector in Colombia is under the responsib-
ility of the Ministry of Public Health which, in coordination with the National
Planning Department, formulates national sectoral policies. The National
Institute of Urban Development (INSFOPAL) and the National Institute of Health
(INAS), are responsible for implementing these policies in urban and rural2/
areas, respectively, and along with the Fund for Urban Development (FFDU) of the
Central Mortgage Bank, they provide financing for investments in the urban
sector. On the local level, municipal public works companies, independent of the
Central Government, are in charge of water and sewerage services in principal
cities, and in many instances also provide other municipal services such as solid
waste collection and disposal. Tn most smaller towns, water supply and sanitation
services are provided by Sanitation Works Companies over which INSFOPAL exerts
considerable influence and in rural areas, by departmental offices of INAS in
coordination with the beneficiary communities. Water, sewerage and solid waste
tariffs are controlled by the Central Government through the National Tariff Board
which acts on proposals submitted by operating companies.
Sector Performance and Prospects
23.       The performance of most sector institutions on both the national and
local levels in Colombia leaves much room for improvement. Poor financial
performance and weak management are the main problems impeding efficient
operations and service expansion. The combined effect of often low tariff levels,
poor commercial practices and fast-rising operating costs (mainly personnel costs)
have been the key obstacles to achieving financial viability for many companies.
Frequent and often politically motivated changes in top- and middle-management
positions and poor administrative, budgeting and planning systems are generally at
the heart of ineffective management. These shortcomings, together with a general
lack of a sufficiently trained work force, manifest themselves in poor upkeep and
inefficient operation of many water supply and sewerage systems and are reflected
in generally high levels of unaccounted-for water.
2/ Communities with less than 2,500 inhabitants.



24.       Further, Central Government institutions have often not provided the
support and incentives needed by utilities at the local level to improve their
performance. In particular, INSFOPAL has generally not been able to appropriately
assert its technical and financial leadership role. in the sector. In addition,
the ready availability in the past of grant funds from the national treasury, one
of the most important sources of finance particularly for small- and medium-sized
city companies, has effectively deferred the need for utilities to improve their
financial and operational performance.
25.       Under its plan for "development with equity", the Government aims to
provide adequate water and sanitation services to all its citizens and to this end
it has adopted ambitious targets for service coverage. Maintenance of the level
of investment necessary to meet these targets will be a difficult task, however,
given the current weaknesses of sector institutions and prevailing fiscal and
borrowing constraints. Consequently, and in light of its recently adopted
macro-economic reform program, the Government is currently reexamining sector
policies and institutions, with particular emphasis on (a) adequate cost recovery,
investment and credit policies; (b) tariff policies based on financial and
operating criteria and the beneficiary's capacity to pay; (c) strengthening of
utilities through technical assistance programs, such as the FOREC program
developed by INSFOPAL under Loan 1726-CO; and (d) a stronger institutional
framework at the central level through which investment funds can be channelled
and sector policies enforced.
Past Bank Experience in the Sector
26.       Since 1968, the Bank has made 11 loans, totalling US$380.9 million, for
water supply and sewerage development in Colombia. The Bank funds have accounted
for about 70% of the external loan amounts made available to the sector. Eight
loans, US$313.8 million in total, were made to EPM's ir. Bogota, Cali, Palmira and
Cucuta. By far the largest borrower has been EAAB in Bogota, to which the Bank
has lent US$261 million in four lending operations, which have contributed to a
total investment of about US$800 million and a significant strengthening of the
entity. Three Bank loans, for a total amount of US$67.1 million, were made to
INSFOPAL for relending to local companies in support of a total of 36 snbprojects
in 30 medium-size and small cities and towns. In addition, INSFOPAL was the
channel used to finance small water supply components of Bank-financed urban
development projects. Several small rural water supply projects were supported
through INAS, as part of integrated agricultural development projects and
nutrition improvement projects.
27.       Most Bank-financed projects have experienced lengthy delays in physical
execution and shortfalls in financial and institutional development goals.
Project completion reports have been prepared for two projects,3/ and two others
have undergone performance audits.4/ The audit reports have been critical of the
overestimates of demand for water; delays in project execution which, in an
inflationary environment, resulted in cost overruns for most of the projects; and
the borrowers' failure to raise water rates and to limit the growth of operating
costs sufficiently to comply with financial performance targets.
3/ Loan 738-CO, Palmira Water Supply Project: Report No. 4589, June 1983; Sec
85-029, December 1984, Loan 1523-CO, Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage
Project.
4/ Loan 536-CO, Bogota Water Supply Project: Report No. 2003, March 1978;
Loan PU-30-CO, Cali Water Supply Project: Report No. 2638, August 1978.



- 9 -
28.       Lessons learned from the implementation of earlier Bank projects in
Colombia have been taken into account in preparation of subsequent projects.
Demand projections are using more conservative estimates of population growth and
consumption as the basis for financial projections. Adequate sub-surface investi-
gations are being required for tunnels and major structures to minimize delays and
cost overruns after construction is in progress. More realistic implementation
schedules are being adopted, and projects are presented to the Board only when a
substantial part of physical works is ready for bidding. More specific plans of
action for financial and institutional reform and earlier discussion of them with
the borrower have also characterized projects that have been considered recently.
Bank Sector Strategy
29.       The Bank's current sector strategy distinguishes between three major
sector segments (large cities, small- and medium-sized towns, rural areas), each
of which covers about one-third of Colombia's population. The strategy calls for
continued lending on a selective basis to the larger municipal companies which
have demonstrated the will to improve their standards of performance, and
emphasizes lending for rehabilitation of existing facilities to permit improve-
ments in operational efficiency and more intensive use of water production
capacity which is already in place. Direct lending to suitable municipal
companies in major cities enables the Bank to assist the Government in its efforts
to extend water supply and sewerage services to large segments of the population,
particularly to the urban poor, at minimum unit cost and to support its efforts to
upgrade the financial and operating performance of the public sector.
The sound performance of the EAAB in Bogota, which the Bank first began assisting
in 1968, and of EPM in Medellin attest to the fact that with persistent effort
other such municipal companies have the potential to develop into well-run
institutions. The proposed loan has been designed to help initiate a similar
development process in Barranquilla Municipal Companies (EPMB) so that eventually
its own performance level will match that of these other municipal utilities.
30.       Over the longer run, the Bank's aim is to progressively support the
sector's development in urban areas through intermediary arrangements capable of
providing a full range of development banking services and implementing sector
policies. In spite of recent improvements in its performance, INSFOPAL does not
have the capacity to carry out such functions. Current discussions within the
Government (para. 32) and with the Bank, however, should lead to decisions on a
set of institutional and policy reforms which would form the core of better
intermediation for the sector and which the Bank could support through a sector
adjustment loan.
31.       A rural water supply component costing US$16 million forms rart of the
recently approved Health Project. It provides the Bank with the opportunity to
support a modest investment program for rural water supply systems and strengthen
INAS through a technical assistance program and the preparation of a National
Rural Water Supply Plan. This plan is expected to define more accurately the
needs and priorities in the rural sub-sector and develop an investment strategy.
Together with the experience acquired in working with INAS, this could help
prepare the way for increased investments in rural water supply, with Bank
support.



- 10 -
Water, Sewerage and Solid Waste Services of EPMB in Barranquilla
32.       Barranquilla, commercial center of Colombia's Atlantic Coast
Region, is the country's fourth largest city, with an estimated present popu-
lation of about 1.1 million and annual growth of about 3.5%. Public services
In Barranquilla are the lowest in coverage and quality among Colombia's
larger cities. EPMB, the proposed borrower and project executing agency, is
an autonomous municipal agency responsible for the following services:
water, sewerage, solid waste collection and disposal, street cleaning, park
maintenance, public markets and a zoological park. The Mayor of Barranquilla
serves as the Chairman of EPMB's Board, which includes representatives of the
city's main political and civic groups. EPMB's General Manager is appointed
by the Mayor.
33.       EPMB's water supply facilities serve about half of the city's total
population through residential, industrial and commercial connections. EPHB
estimates that a further 150,000 persons receive water through illegal con-
nections. The remaining population, Barranquilla's poorest who live predomi-
nantly in the south-western part of the city, purchase water from private
vendors. The state of maintenance and repair of the water system is very
poor. This was illustrated dramatically in April 1985 when the failure of a
pump for treated water transmission paralyzed most of Barranquilla's water
system and left some 400,000 of EPMB's customers without water for almost 4
days. A similar water emergency was also experienced in June, 1985. The
proposed project focuses on rehabilitation of the most deteriorated parts of
the system in order to reduce the risks of future breakdowns and to increase
the system's efficiency.
34.       Extensive leakage, a great many illegal connections, and the
virtual absence of consumption metering are responsible for a high level of
unaccounted-for water (about 45% of total production). Lack of meters and
the tropical climate encourage high water use which is estimated at about
300-350 l/cap/day. Under these conditions, the capacity of EPMX's facilities
is not even sufficient to meet the demand of those connected and rationing is
widespread. However, EPHB is constructing a fifth treatment plant (Planta
No. 5) which, when completed by the end of 1985, should boost total net water
production capacity to a level sufficient to satisfy Barranquilla's water de-
mand until the early 1990s. The proposed project would finance investments
in additianal transmission capacity as the current capacity is insufficient
to deliver the additional production from the new treatment plant to the low
income south-western part of the city.
35.       EPMB has about 80,000 registered sewer connections (48% service
coverage level). The present system is severely overloaded, creating over-
flow of sewage in some sections of town. EPMB forecasts the addition of ano-
ther 40,000 connections by 1990, which would increase the service level to
about 58% of the population. Many of these new connections already exist but
need to be registered. The proposed project would include the expansion of
the capacity of two interceptors designed to eliminate sewage overflows in
some crucial downtown areas. It would also, through technical assistance,
support a program to register existing connections.



- 1 1 -
36.       EPMB has traditionally provided door-to-door collection of solid
waste to about half of Barranquilla's population. Recently, however, collec-
tion efficiency and service quality have dropped dramatically as EPMB's
equipment, because of age and deficient maintenance practices, is becoming
obsolete. Solid waste management in public markets is very poor and there is
no organizea collection of solid waste in the poor neighborhoods at all.
Uncontrolled dumping of waste in vacant lots has become increasingly a
nuisance and public health problem in many parts of the city. Likewise the
city's waste dump is poorly controlled and a growing health hazard. To
address the most urgent needs of EPMB's solid waste operation, the proposed
project would finance the purchase of much needed equipment and vehicles to
upgrade and extend collections, and technical assistance to improve equipment
maintenance and to introduce more sanitary waste disposal practices.
37.       EPMB is a weak and inefficient institution.  It is heavily over-
staffed, with 1,600 employees in total, of which 780 for water and sewerage,
or about B per 1,000 water connections. General managers change frequently,
staving in post on average about 1.5 years. The quality of staff is
generally deficient. Strong trade unions oppose improved efficiency and have
been successful in securing expensive compensation packages. Administrative
and financial systems are weak and do not permit adequate management
control. Lack of equipment, trained staff and procedures hinder the
systematic maintenance and operation of EPMB's facilities. Because of its
inability to provide acceptable services in an efficient manner, EPMB's image
in Barranquilla is poor.
38.       In recent years, EPMB experienced substantial consolidated
operating and cash deficits. These deficits resulted mainly because
municipal property taxes, 95% of which are assigned to EPMB to cover services
other than water supply and sewerage, were frozen between 1979 and 1984 at
levels insufficient to cover the operating deficits incurred by these
services. Inadequate water and sewerage tariff levels, poor collection of
accounts and excessive operating costs have also contributed to EPMB's poor
overall financial performance. EPMB's cash deficits have been financed
mainly by commercial bank overdrafts and by a large increase in arrears to
suppliers and creditors which currently totals about Col$1,l00 million
(US$8.1 million equivalent). During the last four years, EPMB's only major
investment was its recent undertaking to construct a new water treatment
plant costing USS12 million.
Previous Bank Lending to EPMB
39.       EPMB was among the beneficiaries of Loan 1072-CO made to INSFOPAL
in 1972. The loan proceeds allocated to EPMB were US$10.5 million. The
Barranquilla sub-project was completed in 1982 after considerable delay. A
project completion report for Loan 1072-CO is under preparation. EPMB did
not meet the rate of return covenant and other financial, institutional, and
operational targets laid down in the subsidiary agreement with INSFOPAL
partly because various governments were not prepared to authorize the tariff
levels needed by EPMB. Other shortcomings in the execution of the
sub-project can be attributed to EPMB's institutional weakness (para. 37) and
INSFOPAL's inability to provide sufficient supervision and support.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
40.       Feasibility studies completed under the Bank's purview in July 1983
by consultants to Empresas Publicas Municipales de Barranquilla (EPMB), the
proposed borrower, identified an investment program in water, sewerage, and
solid waste with a total estimated base cost of about US$65 million (1983
prices). However, it was evident from EPMB's inefficient operations and poor
financial performance that the company could not support an operation of this
magnitude. In August 1984, under the direction of new management, EPKB
renewed discussions with the Bank and requested financing for a smaller
project which would emphasize financial rehabilitation and institutional
development and the execution of only the most urgently needed investments in
water supply, sewerage, and solid waste facilities. As a condition of loan
processing, EPMB subsequently identified and took initial key steps to imple-
ment the institutional and financial recovery program agreed upon with the
Bank. Particularly after the water emergency in April 1985 (para. 33), local
authorities are prepared to support EPMB's current rehabilitation efforts.
They realize that drastic measures are necessary to reverse the deterioration
of public service in Barranquilla.
41.       The proposed Bank participation in the project stems from a country
strategy designed to support Colombia's efforts to promote socio-economic
investments substantially benefitting lower-income segments of the
population, rehabilitate existing facilities and bring about better financial
and institutional performance of public sector entities. For Barranquilla in
particular, the Bank would, among other things, help to ensure an effective
project design for the vital institutional development program for EPMB and
provide the reinforcing incentives and conditionality needed for EPMB's
management to implement the program. At present these are beyond the
capabilities of local institutions to undertake alone.
42.       The proposed project was appraised in February 1985 and negotia-
tions took place in Washington on October 16-18, 1985 with the Colombian
delegation headed by Dr. Guido Borrero Duran, Mayor of Barranquilla. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 5631-CO of October 29, 1985) is being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. Supplementary project data are shown in
Annex III.
Project Objectives
43.       The proposed project would address the urgent need to restore and
extend acceptable water, sewerage and solid waste services to Barranquilla's
population and to bring about the financial strengthening and institutional
development of EPMB. Its immediate objectives would be:
(a) Service rehabilitation and expansion program: (i) restore the
most deteriorated parts of the water system; (ii) expand service to low
income neighborhoods in the south-west part of the city so as to increase
water supply coverage from a current 50% to about 95% by 1990 (75% through
house-connections and 20% by public standpipes); (iii) eliminate sewerage
overflows in some key downtown areas and residential neighborhoods through
the expansion of collector capacity; and (iv) reestablish regular door-tc-



- 13 -
door solid waste collection services to about 50 percent of the city's area
and establish proper waste management services for public markets, currently
unserved poor neighborhoods and waste disposal sites;
(b) Financial and institutional program: (i) improve EPMB's finan-
cial performance so as to achieve an internal financing capacicy of about
one-third of its investment needs by 1989; (ii) increase the operating
efficiency of all EPMB services, and for water, reduce unaccounted-for water
from the currently estimated 45 percent to about 32 percent by 1991 and
stabilize the cost per M3 of water sold at its present level in real terms
through 1990; and (iii) establish an adequate capacity for the repair and
maintenance of equipment and facilities.
44.        The successful execution of the service rehabilitation and the
financial and institutional strengthening programs would put EPMB in a better
position to undertake the larger investments which will be needed in the
1990s to maintain in Barranquilla water, sewerage, and solid waste disposal
services at levels comparable to those in other large Colombian cities. Thus
the project would also include engineering services to prepare studies for
this next phase.
Project Description
45.       The proposed project would include the following components:
(a) Water supply and sewerage: Construction of transmission
mains, a storage tank, reequiping of pumping stations, repair and improvement
of treatment plants and transmission and distribution facilities (leak
detection and repair), rehabilitation and expansion of the water delivery
system in the south-western zone including the construction of about 50
public standpipes, the purchase of about 40,000 and installation of 70,000
water meters and of 20,000 house connections, and capacity expansion of 3
sewerage collectors; (b) Solid waste: Purchase of about 25 collection
trucks, 3 street sweepers, 2 front loaders, 2 bulldozers, 3 lifting trucks
and various containers and tools and spare parts for the repair shop; (c)
Institutional development: Technical assistance, training of EPMB's staff,
and the purchase of vehicles and equipment, to improve existing or implement
new systems and procedures in management, financial and operational areas of
EPMB's business; (d) Engineering services: Supervision of construction,
survey of existing network conditions and preparation of a rehabilitation and
service expansion plan in south-western zone, an update of existing
feasibility studies and the preparation of designs and bidding documents for
the next stage of water and sewerage investments, and a solid waste study to
define a cost-effective and environmentally acceptable long term solution to
the final disposal of wastes; and (e) Incremental permanent working capital:
A contribution of US$2.5 million to be disbursed against chemicals and spare
parts purchases between March 1, 1985 and December 31, 1987 to cover EPMB's
needs for increased permanent working capital resulting from the project.
This would also indirectly help to restructure EPMB's effectively negative
working capital position and reestablish its credit standing with local
banks.



- 14 -
Project Cost and Financing
46.       The total cost of the proposed project (including US$4.4 million in
interest during construction and US$6.2 million for incremental working
capital) is estimated at US$41.6 million equivalent, of which 58% or $24.0
million is foreign exchange. The local cost component of $17.6 million
equivalent includes sbout US$2.0 million equivalent of tanes charged against
the purchase of equipment and materials and foreign consultants' fees which
the Bank would not finance. The base cost, expressed in June 1985 prices, is
US$31.9 million. Physical contingencies are calculated to be about 10%.
Price and ColS devaluation contingencies, equivalent to about 81 of the sum
of base cost and physical contingencies, were included assuming that local
inflation varies from 22% in 1985 to 18% in 1990 and international Inflation
of 5% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986 and of 8% through 1991.
47.       The Bank would provide US$24 million or 58% of total financing
required. The loan would cover the foreign exchange cost of the project's
investments totalling US$17.1 million, interest during construction up to a
maximum of US$4.4 million, and the US$2.5 million foreign exchange component
of EPMB's incremental permanent working capital needs. The financing plan
also includes a loan of US$3.4 million from FFDU, which has already been
contracted, to support initial project costs during 1985 and 1986 and
includes a grant from the Department of Atlantico totalling US$4.3 million
equivalent. Assurances were obtained from EPMB that no later than
January 31, 1986, EPME would enter into an agreement with the Department to
this effect. EPMB would contribute a total of US$9.9 million. Of this
amount, about US$3.7 million would be used to meet incremental working
capital needs and about US$6.2 million would finance project investments
beginning in 1987, when EPMB's financial position is expected to have
improved. To ensure that these funds for project investments would be made
available, FFDU has provided EPMB and the Bank with a letter indicating its
intent to cover any shortfall with an additional loan.
Project Imnlementation
48.       Project implementation would take place over six years with comple-
tion expected by mid-1991. It in fact began in February 1985 with EPMB's
purchase with FFDU funds of pipes for the transmission main and 20,000 water
meters. Contracts for the installation of transmission mains and the storage
tank have already been awarded and bids for other important items (pumps,
water meters and vehicles) are scheduled to be issued in early 1986.
49.       Continuity of management staff and EPMB's policies is vital to the
rehabilitation process and to the success of the project. To this end,
assurances were obtained from EPMB and the Government that EPMB would
maintain continuity and a minimum of turnover in the management of the
company, and assure an adequate level of competence of its management staff.
50.       Draft terms of reference for technical assistance associated with
the project's institutional development component have already been prepared
and agreed upon by EPMB and the Bank. Responsibility for the administration
of this component would rest with EPMB's Planning Department under the direct



- 15 -
supervision of the General Manager. Assurances were obtained from EPMB that
it would maintain a unit, with staff and functions acceptable to the Bank, in
the Planning nepartment to coordinate this component of the project.
The technical assistance would be likely to be provided mainly by local
consultants who would employ foreign expertise in special areas. In view of
lengthy local procurement proctedures, signature of contracts with the
consultants selected for this component would be a condition of loan
disbursement of all project components except for working capital.
EPMB would give the Bank ample opportunity to comment on the consultant's
recommendations and their implementation. All construction would be
supervised by engineering consultants under the direction of EPMB's
Construction Supervision Department. The signing of a contract for
construction supervision with consultants satisfactory to the Bank would also
be a condition of loan disbursement.
51.       The public standpipe network in the south-western part of the city
would be constructed in close coordination with neighborhood leadership
organizations known as Juntas de Accion Comunal (JAC). Many of the JAC's
have already indicated their desire to work with EPKB in selecting standpipe
locations, maintaining and operating them, and collecting payments for water
consumed. Each standpipe would be metered. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that, as a condition for providing water through standpipes,
EPMB would enter into arrangements with JAC's assigning them responsibility
for selection of locations for and proper maintenance of standpipes and
establishing a mechanism for collection of payment on EPMB's behalf for water
consumed.
Procurement
52.       Contracts awarded under the proposed project through international
competitive bidding procedures (ICB) would account for about 50% of total
project costs. Contracts for most equipment are expected to be won by
foreign manufacturers while those for pipes, accessories and civil works are
likely to be awarded to local firms. Qualifying domestic suppliers would be
given a preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f. bid price or the
applicable import duty, whichever is lower. About 90% of the professional
services required for the project are expected to be provided by local
consultants.
53.       Civil works contracts larger than US$1 million equivalent and good3
contracts larger than USS50,000 equivalent would be procured through
(ICB). Local procedures acceptable to the Bank would be used to award
contracts with estimated costs below these limits. Open bidding would be
used for contracts between US$10,000 and US$50,000 and local shopping based
on price quotations from at least three qualified local bidders for contracts
of less than $10,000. The installation of water meters and house connections
would be contracted directly by work orders to pre-qualified contractors at
unit prices established by EPMB. Individual work orders would be limited to
a ceiling of IJSS20,000 equivalent. Spare parts and chemicals, financed under
the working capital component, would be procured through local shopping
procedures or by directly negotiated purchase from one supplier (for chlorine



- 16 -
products). The limits for prior review of bidding documents by the Bank
(US$50,000 equivalent for equipment/material contracts and US$500,000
equivalent for civil works contracts) would result in a coverage of about 90Z
of the total estimated value of goods contracts and about 50% of civil works
contracts. The Government provided assurances at negotiations that import
licenses for goods purchased under the project would be issued promptly by
the Instituto de Comercio Exterior (INCOMEX).
Disbursements
54.       The Bank loan would be disbursed against:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for all direct imports; 40% of local
expenditures for imported equipment and materials procured locally
and 40% of ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods;
(b) 40% of total cost for expenditures for the purchase of spare parts
and chemicals purchased after March 1, 1985 and before December 31,
1987 up to a maximum of USS2.5 million equivalent;
(c) 40% of total expenditures for civil works;
(d) 100% of total expenditures for consulting services and training
under the institutional development component; (para. 45(c));
(e)  40% of total expenditures for consultants for engineering services
(para 45(d)); and
(f) amounts due for interest on the Bank's loan up to a maximum of
US$4.4 million.
55.       For contracts whose value is less than USS20,000 equivalent,
dis-bursement would be against statement of expenditures certified by EPMB. A
provision for retroactive financing up to a total of $2.0 million from
March 1, 1985 would be made to facilitate project start-up in view of EPMB's
currently poor financial condition. In order to expedite project execution,
a special account would be opened in Colombia's central bank with an initial
deposit of up to USS2.0 million. The closing date of the loan would be
December 31, 1991.
EPMB's Financial Prospects
56.       Measures taken by EPMB since late 1984 under its recovery program
(para. 40) in five main problem areas have markedly improved its financial
prospects. Operating costs are being stabilized with the dismissal so far of
some 150 staff performing redundant tasks, and the strict control of
overtime. An aggressive campaign has been mounted to connect and bill
unregistered customers and to collect past due accounts, which has to date
resulted in a 20% increase in monthly collections for water supply and
sewerage services. Financial deficits of the public markets have been
eliminated by cutting expenditures and collecting payment arrears.
Rescheduling of past due debt owed to major domestic creditors of EPMB is
being negotiated. And finally, EPMB obtained from the National Tariff Board
in May 1985 an effective aggregate increase of about 10 percent in its
tariffs above the 1.8 percent increase per month already in effect, and is
the main beneficiary of a nearly 250% increase in municipal property taxes
effected earlier in the year by the Municipal Council of Barranquilla.



- 17 -
57.       While these measures will help EPMB to attain a balanced cash flow
for 1985, the Company will have to continue to take financial adjustment
measures over the project implementation period to develop a capacity to
generate funds internally to cover a reasonable share of its future
investment needs.  The most important measures would include:   substantial
increase in solid waste tariffs; continued tariff and municipal property tax
increases approximately in line with average domestic inflation rates;
maintain tight control over operating costs, particularly for personnel; and
limit strictly capital expenditures and long-term debt. To help ensure that
these measures are achieved, assurances were obtained from EPMB that, for its
water supply and sewerage operations as well as for the Company as a whole,
it would take all actions necessary to generate sufficient revenues to cover
operating and maintenance expenses, working capital needs, debt service
requirements, including rescheduled payments to major creditors, and
contributions of not less than 10% of capital expenditures starting in 1987,
increasing to 30% by 1989. Assurances were also obtained from EPMB that it
would not incur any additional long-term debt or undertake any capital
expenditures in excess of US$200,000 equivalent per year without the Bank's
agreement and would reschedule and then pay off its overdue debt with major
creditors and suppliers in accordance with agreement subject to the Bank's
approval, which would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
58.       These financial policies need to be complemented by adjustments in
EPMB's operations in order to achieve the financial performance sought. To
help meet projected revenues, the project would include provisions for
performance targets to increase the number of new water connections from
about 97,000 in 1985 to about 160,000 in 1990, improve the proportion of
billit:gs and property taxes collected from about 70% in 1985 to 90% in 1990,
reduce personnel per 1000 connections from 10 in 1984 to 7 by 1986, and
reduce the level of unaccounted-for-water from the present 44% to 34% by
1990. Assurances were obtained from EPMB that it would take all actions
necessary to achieve these targets which would be jointly revised from time
to time as required. Assurances were also obtained that EPMB would provide
the Bank regularly with sufficient information to enable it to monitor EPMB's
investment program, financial position and success in meeting performance
targets.
59.       In the past few years, EPMB's weak financial position has forced it
to pledge a portion of its collections to commercial banks to secure
long-term loans. The level of pledged collections is modest, about 20Z of
EPMB's total collections, and is expected to be phased out gradually during
project execution as these loans are repaid. In addition, as interest on the
Bank loan is to be capitalized during this period, the Bank would effectively
be in an inferior position vis a vis other creditors only from 1990 by which
time improvements in EPMB's financial condition should have been realized.
Given this, the Bank would not seek pari passu treatment with respect to such
security as a condition of extending the loan. However, during negotiations
EPMB agreed that loans secured by pledges would be repaid as they become due
and that no further pledges conflicting with the Bank's negative pledge
clause would be made following loan signing. Some short-term debt is also
secured by pledged collections, though this does not conflict with the Bank's
negative pledge clause and is a frequent practice in the sector. The
proceeds from the working capital component or the Bank loan and additional
revenues to be generated during project implementation are expected to permit



- 18 -
EPMB to meet its future working capital requirements with a minimum of such
pledging. EPMB thus agreed during negotiations that the proportion of total
collections pledged to repay short-term debt would not exceed more than 5%
from 1986.
Project Justification, Benefits and Affordability
60.       Host of the proposed investments would be used to repair, rehabili-
tate and replace existing facilities and equipment and to assist EPMB in its
efforts for institutional and financial reform. The benefits to be derived
from the project are difficult to quantify realistically and therefore a
specific financial and economic rates of return have not been calculated.
They become apparent from the consequences of not doing the project, namely
the continued (a) deterioration of EPMB's water facilities leading to more
serious service interruptions like those experienced in April 1985 and again
in June 1985; (b) poor management performance of EPMB making it impossible to
mount the large medium- and long-term investments needed to provide
acceptable water, sewerage and solid waste services to Barranquilla's
population in the 1990s; (c) rationing and irregular water supply to most of
Barranquilla's population; (d) increasing public health hazards as solid
waste collection and disposal service progressively deteriorate; and (e)
dependence of about 400,000 people, most of them belonging to Barranquilla's
poorest, on often unsafe water purchased from vendors at high prices. The
benefits from the project's alleviation of these circumstances are believed
to be high and, on these grounds, the project would be financially and
economically justified.
61.       By 1991, about 600,000 additional people would have access to
potable water from the project. About 400,000 of them would live in the
city's southwestern zone belonging to the lowest income group. Of these
about 100,000 would receive service through house-connections and 300,000
through public standpipes. Investments in solid waste would allow EPMB to
reinstitute regular door-to-door service to some 50% of Barranquilla's
population, put in place a regular clean-up system around public markets,
initiate solid waste removal in some of the city's poor neighborhoods and
make final disposal practices more sanitary. These investments would remove
the public health hazard now created by the indiscriminate dumping of waste
in empty lots and bring about more sanitary disposal of waste.
62.       EPMB's new tariff structure recently approved by the National
Tariff Board as a condition of loan processing will substantially increase
both EPMB's revenues and the progressivity of its tariffs. The average
tariff is now about Col$18/m3 (US$.13 equivalent), which is close to the
estimated long-term average marginal cost for water in Barranquilla. A
family in Barranquill-'s lowest income group would pay about Col$100 per
month (US$74 equivalent) for a supply of 1Dm3, well within this group's
capacity to pay, considering that the average monthly income of even a poor
family exceeds Col$10,000. A family belonging to the highest income category
would have to pay Col$670 for the same 10m . The new structure also provides
important incentives for water conservation as the tariff becomes quite
progressive for consumption above 30m3/month, independent of the socio-econo-
mic status of the user. The public standpipe service to be provided in the
city's southwestern part would significantly reduce the amount of family
income spent on water; today water purchased through vendors can cost up to



- 19 -
Col$1200/family/month and in extreme cases reach up to 10% of family income.
Under the project, charges to be paid by public standpipe users would be
about Col$50 and more consistent with a poor family's financial capacity to
pay.
Project Risks
63.       Physical implementation of the proposed project carries little risk
as the works themselves are simple and straightforward.  Considerable risk
exists, however, that the management continuity and political support needed
to sustain the financial and institutional program cannot be maintained. A
sensitivity analysis on the project demonstrates that a shortfall of more
than about 20% in reaching any of the performance targets for tariff and tax
increases, collection efficiency, operating costs, and the number of new
water connections would prevent EPMB from generating sufficient internal
funds to finance its investment program. However, the substantial measures
already taken toward financial recovery (para. 56) as a condition of loan
processing reflect considerable willingness of the authorities so far to take
the difficult steps required to achieve EPMB's rehabilitation. Assumptions
underlying the rate of rehabilitation of EPMB in coming years are also on the
cautious side. The technical assistance in support of EPMB's rehabilitation,
the regular joint reviews of agreed upon performance targets, and back-up
arrangements to ensure availability of EPMB's project contribution (para. 47)
should also help to yield an acceptable project risk level given the dangers
of further deterioration in services in Barranquilla if the project were not
undertaken.
PART V: RECOMMENDATION
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 8, 1985



- 20
ANNEX I
S^L.LLJ                                        Pax*1 of 6
u               ~~~~- MAL. ESIACIfS 4S   _'
NM                               -  sstw  unwim  
llalBW tUlZ I100ml
..A        iI1lk iu" k             LAT. &MICA A CM              Icam
AM ( q -4 0
SOX^                             UNA|.       1136.9     AIN,t                 .
4UtALWLUL                         350.5       330.5      355..
m         m  *m). *-                                       130.0            1ju53.                    2144-.
arv ouu im smut
(lzuL_A OF OIL UqVY       )       353.0      493.0      6*0.0              61.6                    1119
PIOUPITIN.ID-11AR (ISUAIu)   15734.i    21266.0    27515.0
cum 1IWLI  CS 0Z OTTAL)            66.3        57.2       46.1              6717                     47.3
1WLAZD  ZN Illa  me0 (NELL)                             37.0
6TAT1ON*RT IOHLATZOU (NKM.                              10.0
UUSLAI       -SU                                         1.6
n  IQ. U.                        13.8        16.7       21.2              46.0                     64.7
Mn  IQ. W. w. u                  43.0       60.7        75.6              91.1                    16.5
POWUATUM SS 230C13 (3)
0-L1 TM                         46.7        4.1       37.7              36.3                     31.2
15-4  i3                         50.2       51.0        56.6              57.1                     41.5
65*30AmA13                        2.9        2.7         3.6               4.2                      7.2
POIUATION GUM  AM  CXS)
TOM                               3.1         3.0        2.0               2.4                      1.4
11331                             35.7       3.2         2.7               3.6                      3.7
033 Kum 1413 CIa hogS)             47.2       33.         2J.0              30.9                     23.4
*-; 351  lam  CM T3006)            17.4        9.7         7.3               6.0                      6.9
e_O66 U3000TIO  Rag                 3.3        2.6        l                 2.0                      1.3
ACPU3. IGIAL ( )                  ..        115.4      192.8A 
UrsE  CZ OF PARRIZD1 wAu)         .          34.0       53.0              4133
Mu  Of NM PROD. PO CAPITL
(19ro-71.100)                     100.0       99.0       117.0             109.6                    109.1
f CAPu  sumT OF
CAL03136 (20f SX*MU UlS)       102.0       69.0       110.0             113.2                    131.5
PUBINU CUIBS PM       )           45.0      46.0        37.0              69.4                     92.4
or  XW  *1.36 AM PUmL           26.0        24.0       25.0 7d           34.2                     34.5
WNILD CAMS 1-4) O3*13               9.4        6.6         3.0               4.6                      4.7
Lln  WlT. AX KM  (t23n)            33.1        56.9       ".1               "a                       67.2
NAgNT31M. 32 (VIM TOM)             93.5        10.3       33.0              59.7                     53.3
A=S To San WYM   Mo)
202*L                            30.0        63.0       92.0 e            65.3                     70.2
uUh                              34.9        as.0       100.0             76.5                     69
RURAL                             6.8        26.0       79.0  c           *4.2                     57.0
UZ2RU tO ffrmDlbOUT.
(Z OF POIUL*TZ
TOUL                              ..         47.0       63.0              56.3                     ".6                                    -
gamy3                             ..         75.0      100.0 j            73.4                     65.9
3L.                               ..           -J        4.0 E            25.s                     47.6
?OWLLT*O Pm  1161C0A.            2640.9      WM3.0      1710.0 /           1909.7                  1070.A
Mr. m  mJIM  u*                  422.0.0 /r   730.0      500.0             601.2                    76943
POP. is  W1UAL U3
20.11                           260.0       430.0      360.0 /           362.0                     32n.3
UN                                ..        360.0      490.0              422.0                    201.9
RUom                              ..          ..          ..             2716.7                   4319.1
AUI 6 IIONS  UD61171. 13            ..         22.9       29.  .            27.5                     20.0
T0TAL                             ..          1.67        .
AVEAC 80. OF PIsO/M
0LL                               ..          1.8         ..
D0*1                              ..          Z.4         .                 .                        .
PiaNNIor DOiLLZISS WM S.
2O0*1                            47.0 /h    56.1 .
D333* 83.079    87.5                                      ..
RURAL                              .07       13.2         . 



- 21 -                                                       ANNEX I
T A I L E 1A                                   Page  2 of  6
COLOMIA                - SOCIAL INDICAT0RS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                            ERPERDICE GROuPS WElCITD AVERAGES) /a
MOST                     (OT  RECENT ESTIMTE) /b
RECENT          MIDDLE ZICOHE          MIDDLE INTy-
1960Lt     197D/b  unESTItA         LAT. AMERICA  CAR            EUROPE
ADJUSTED ECRIOLUIN RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOAL                   77.0       108.0       130.0             106.7                    101.9
LALE                   77.0       107.0       129.0              108.5                    106.2
FEMu                   77.0       110.0       132.0             104.6                     97.5
SECONDARn: UOL'                   12.0        25.0       46.0               64.2                     57.5
HLEA                   13.0        25.0        45.0              42.7                 ,   64.9
FEULE                  11.0        24.0        51.0              44.9                     50.0
VOCATMOAL (Z OF SECONDRYr)          30.8 /L    20.2        21.6 Id            13.3                     21.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIM                              38.0        38.0       31.0               29.9                     25.1
SEODMDARY                         11.0        17.0       20.0               16.7                     19.1
PASSEGE CARSITUSANIID POP            5.7        11.2       16.6 /d            46.0                     54.2
RADIO RECEIJERS/l1OUSD POP         125.1       104.3      131.7              328.3                    170.7
TY REGC11ERS(TNDUSAUD POP            9.5        38.1       86.9 /c           112.4                    149.3
NESPAPMRCK  "A33T GENERAL
INTEREST) CIALETIO
PER THIUSAND POPULATIO             50.0       10.17       t1.0               51.1                     97.0
CI111A ANEAL AXTA      CAPTA         ..          ..         2.6                2.4                      2.7
TOTO    L R FORCE (TICUS)         4727.0     6353.0      9084.0
nUIL  CPzRWT)                     19.2        24.8       24.6               23.6                     36.3
AICILZURE (PERWY)                 51.6        37.9       25.8 /c            31.4                     60.8
INDsR  (PERWT)                   19.2       21.0        21.2 7c            24.3                     23.3
PARTXCIPATI0U RATE (PERCT)
TOAL                              30.0        Z9.9       33.0               33.5                     43.1
MALE                              48.8       45.1        49.4               51.3                     55.1
FEMALE                            11.5        14.8       16.1               15.9                     31.4
ECONOMIC DEPCY RATIO                 1.7         1.6        1.3                1.3                      0.9
o   DIS
PCRCCNT OF RVATE ICM
RECKEIVD BT
RICHEST 52 or   D 5uLI            61.2 /j   31.9 i
HSSIIS 20S 07 RONSUECLUS          67.7  t    60.1         .                  .
LODIWSr ZCS or HOUU EIS S          2.1        3 3.5       .
LOUIS? 4020O  UIUSEDS              6.8    1 0.1 
-, TA             S
ESTIMATED ABSOLI P09RT  INCONK
LEVL (CUSS PE CAPIT)
11W                                ..          ..       214.0 /d           288.3
RURAL                              ..          ..       197.0 /d           165.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVZE  ITl
LEEL USS PER CAPITA)
URA                                ..          ..       267.0 Id           519.8
Im7RL                              ..          ..       122.0 7            359.7
ESTIMATZD POP. BELOW ABSOLUrg
POVERTY INCE LVL (S)
URUII                              ..         ..         34.0 Id
RURAL                              ..          ..
NOT AVALLAJZ
.~~~~~~~~~~ .  WT  V 
NOT ALICAeE
1*  The groop avrag  for each indicator are populatio-wel5htd. arithetic mom. Coverae of cotntrie
mog the indcatore depea on aD ailebility of data and is no uniform.
/b   Unlaes othbelae noted. Datca for 196  refer to an  year bt_en 1959 en  1961; 'Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; ad data for "Not Recat Estlirt" botirnn 1981 and 1983.
/c  1980; Id 1977; /a 1978; /f 1962; i  1973; lh 1964; /I Includiq teacher tcranxg at the certicry
leve; a  Econor  _  ly acte  popolation.
JUNE. 1985



- 22 -                                                 ANNEX I
PaRe 3 of 6
DEFINITIOS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Noten Although the data aredwn frsaun som  grnmly jdd she mast authortative nd reilable. it shoul also b noted thai they my not be intmtinally
compsrtble becuse of the lack of standardiud deitons and conceps use by diffrent cumnri in collecing thge da  The data are. nonmthues usful to
decrnbe orders of mnanatude indicste trend. and charctenre cemtn major dilffeen  betw en countri.
Te ref eence groups re  (II the sae country group of the subjct county nd (2   country group with somewhat higher avera  income than the country
group o thestUbjict cuntry tcefpt er -Higb Incorm Ol Exporters" grup ere -Middk Income North Africr and Middl Ea    chosen beamuse of strongr
socio-cultura alniites In the refee   group dtu dti averaes ar population weightd arithmec means for each indintor and shown only when naority
of the countnes n g roup has data for that indicator. Since te covarg ofcountrie among the indicators depends on the availabiUty ofdat nd aisnai unironn.
caution must be excised in relaing avesps of one indicator to anoeher Thee avenzge are only usful In comparing the value otone mndicasor a a time among
the country and reference groupL
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                           Crudr Ak Rate (per thesuad- Number of livc births in the year
Toral-Total surface ara compnsing land area and inland waters;   per thousand or mid-year populauon 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 dat.                                         Crsdr Death Rut (per rthousnvd)-Number of deaths in the year
Agrksul-Fstimate of agriculturd area used temporarily or         per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gres Rep_daia Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie rallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 dan.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific rertility rates: usually five-year avenges ending
GN- PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market pnces. calculated bv same conversmon method As World       i       P AwAeJrs. Annual fuhouzandsr-Anw"al num-
Bank Atlas [ 1981-83 basis 1; 1983 data.                         ber ofacceptors ofbirth-control devices under auspices ofnational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning pro- rm.
consumpaon of commercial pnmary energy (coal and lignite.        Fanuai(p, Plamay-Uws  (perent tePfswrd-ww.)--Thse prcen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal cekc-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who am practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contaception. Wbmen
1982 data.                                                       of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
sone countries contraceptsve usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTCS                                  groups.
Total P   bpatim. M.Uid- Year (thzssn-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
UranPpr ooof urban to total  Index ofFood Poddo Per Capi (16971= 1I)-Index of per
prJa Popn tiereon (perfent of  rrald)   Lnrc  ma  anet cotal     capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population: different definstiona of urban areas mpdudes animal feed and seed ror agriculture. Food commodities
ability or data among countnes: 1960. 1970. ard 19- 3 data.      include primarv commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Poplatin P-je'iou                                                which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.   excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulss. oil seeds.
made for each economy separatelv. Starting with information on   vegetabls, fruits. nuts. sugarcane ane sugar beets livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fietlity rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parametr    on natw;nal average producer price weights 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.              Pr Coputa &5p   ofCaris (prcent ofreqalroesn-C omput-
Stationary popdartion-ls one in which age- and sex-spec'. mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fiertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = I). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements wer
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmnental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                       waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentrw-Is the tendency for poputation growth to     Per Caeta Supply ofP1wein (grams per dqj-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-levd fertility has been  percapita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum al;owances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remaias at replac-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment lewel from year t onward. 1985 data.                        75 grams of wtal protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
popuation Densit                                                 average ror the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer ( 100 t       Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capia Proein Supply frm Animl and Puke-Protein supply
Per sqkm. agriultural kind-Computed as above for agricultural    of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
Aopulation AgeSirrncru (percetn-Children (0-14 yearsl. work-     Cfid (ages 1-4) DeashRare(perrtousand)-Numberofdeathsof
ing age(I 5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  childrcn aged 1- years per thousand children in the samne age
of mid-ycar population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Popuaton Growth Rate (peArcen-total- Annual growth rates of      from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950460. 19t60-70. and 197O-13.    HEALTH
Popution Growth Rate (percenrt-,rban--Annual growth rates        Lie Epctancy  t Birth (yearsn-Number of vcars a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.      infant would live if prevailing pattems of mortality for all people



ANNEX I
- 23-                                    Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;    PApd-teader Rotio - primary. and secondary-Total students en.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbm  of
Woefsat Mat sA   e (p. thuaaa)-Number Or infants who die    tetcies in the corresponding klvels
before reaching one year of ae per thousand live births in a given
year 1960, 1970 and 19h3 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Aces ea Safe Wtr (pfr-  t  pun)t                  _    d      fsjq   Cars (per tb._ad pop. J       -Passenger cars con-
r_al-Number of people tt-u. urban and rural) with reasonable   prise motor car seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated surface waal  or  atces hearses and military vehides.
untrnated but unwcontmited water such as that from protectd   Rieb Rect    (pfr  ea Jdp-pd      I)-A   types of receivers
borhoks. springs and sanitary wells) as pcentags of their mqec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per tholaund of population;
tive populations. In an urban ar  a public fountain or sandpost  excludes  ic-lnsed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable aces of that house. In rural ares  not be comparble since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable ac' would imply that the housewife or member of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVRtv  (pr h      p.-TV   vers for brost
in fetching the family's water ncets.                         to gencral pubbc per thousand populaion; exckudes uncesetd TV
A  a. &  Dupesai e  .juiata.ajaesa~ mien       receivers in countries and in years when regstratio of TV sets was
Ace"s toxe &on  Dipmfi   (pertem of e hm o)-J s    arb        a efect.
and rural-Number of people (total. urban. and rural) served by  m
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  A"'Fa.g Cicd.tigw (per thnasu.dpepdti..i-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may indude the collection and disposaL with or  age circulation of -daily general interst newspaper.' defined as a
without treatment, of human exereta and waste-water by water-  periodkal publication devoted prinarily to recording geeral news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations  It is considered to be 'daily' if it appamm at kast four times a week.
Popaki- per Physicion-ltipulation divided by number of prac-  C uens Amwal AneAauer per Capx per Y_-Based on the
tising physcians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold duning  -c year. including admissions to
P     qpaiwiam per Nxrjirg  Arrson-Population divided by number of  drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
pracical nurses and nursing auxiliares.                       LO    FORCE
P1pallu per HospaW .Bed-tol, urBn, a_l aral-ltpulation         Total Labor Fame (thma_dJ)-Economially active persons, in-
(totaL urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but exlduding housewives.
students. etc.. covering popuLation of alf ages. Definitions in
hospital beds available in public and private, general and  sahzd  v   c       a
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are cstablishments  wanous countres am not compable; 1960. 1970 and 19S3 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femake (ercearn-Fernalc labor force as petcenage of total labor
iding principaly custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
howcver. include health and medica renters not permanently staffed  Ap.fchue (percenti-Labor force in farming, forestry. hunting
by w physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor fnc; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offcr in-patient acconunodation and provide a iumited range  data.
of medial facilities.                                         hidostry (perceat)-Labor force in mining. constnrution. manu-
Adrsios per Hospital Bed-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity. water and ps as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
P -rk,ati  Raoe (percea)-a tl,a _I, afelie-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as totaL male, and female labor force
Aeme -lr  Hehd fpers   p er ho_sdol)-tataL  m,                as Per entages of totaL male and femae population of aU ages
adrina,-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and tbeir nain mek  A boarder or kedgr may or  participation rates reflecting age- sexstructure of the population. and
may not be induded in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
.4erage lV/uber of Persons per Roe  -ioral, rhm, sad rEral-   Ecouac DepeAdey Rati-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of pemons per room in al urban, and rural      65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME IDLSRIBUTLON
Percrtage of Dwelags with Electry-total, urba,and rur-        Percentage of Totra Dipabk Iowe (bath i cah aed kad)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to pentile grmups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively,       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjusted Ea uta Ratios                                        The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Phsary school - total nuale awd feme-Gross totale m    and    lees, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all agcs at dte primary klvd as percentages of  Esriaured Abso&e Ibrery Iame Leve (USS per caprJ)-,_rbaa
respective primary school-age populations. While mrany countries  and rnral-Absolute pnverty income levd is that income levd
consicer primary school age to be 6-l1 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus esse ntial
differnces in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are rcfl cted in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esimated Reliv Fbverry Incomw Level (USS per capita)-arbi
education, gross cnrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  ad rxral-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-sdool  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
agc.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondar, school - total. ale and femae-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Ewserda Pboplton Beow Absewe Povry Incomw Levd (per-
mary instruction: provides generaL vocationaL or teacher training  cent)-whan and uwal- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usuaBy of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are -absolute poor.'
cnce courses are generally exduded.
Vocational Enrolbnenr (percent of secondarvi-Vocational institu-         Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industriaL or other programs which operate   Economic Anablsis and Projections Department
independendy or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1935



A.             q18 **A6b&n.J                                    - 24 
~                     -                      iW iU; 
___ __  ___   __     _     _     a                      ( u i n t
1 a.  *  a.   umIDD                                     1                   -  1  1s  
n   m   m    m   i4  we Wm ma  ma  ma  ma  ma  Ma  v
gM a     IPw                                           u  u    xDo somo   zu                 o   no   imo
--                                             -~~~W-9 9 -    U'   g  %   7W  U    -W  -  -
ft_               *,    ax      am     A      w                 I=     S     W     w     %A    S2   w
_ ~~-   9.             5     9,     V     6.2  U1    2i  3.7   2.    50   36    2           2.    Si a
ammpd             A=  a,m    a=   2           u <   u     41    "    a       Ma9   27   S       32   MA
Q~~~~i                    su   Sa    s'    ii   i.    si   Un   an    az   S               2   WA
-                  7Js    7,1   7.0    65 4          36    7.2   25   22    DD   MA    ZS   M           .
_d_                 4,97   45    4W    411   U       5.    V 3          aS   5J8   Mg9  NJ    .    2A
<<             dl     7   47    5JID  'bN   ~i    X    931  8.5   56   tiJ   57   DJ   1251  1D
5,50   43   f4    40        2    U    -M    A4 S           2  U.2  aM  11.6U  2.3
Ds    S  D       s                a F E
313  U    a   m  ma m  ma ma ma
2,3 US    a3       X        -    3.5   72    -       5   2.    L    2    2          3
38    a      a      3b    -    4.   4U        -    Vis   2t   1L2    L7 u    3    "
_.    ~                                 1i   .  w  m   m   ma ma  ma Xoa mo
ftd  4   4  4  4   mu  w  -=  -au -0 --  -
3                flD    7    6a      6   -CA   n5o0   L3    2D    -    ID   Iii   M3   *i   11.2
tkWz      dOm     4aS      l,I    401   we    52  -41   IZJ   40 - 4i    3i1   32   MA   3rg    3L9
2.0Z   2.M   1,    WM    La    16    9D   38    NS   39           2   65    4      QJ
EI    215A                 Sll   Mg-           a D          Mt/ 2f
36    Z.9    3      25.1   171    Al  27.6   ZS   NJ   24   5.0
adu,m -JS 3.9                           7    3if8   3.    42Q6    qJ    2.S  6ELI   3.9 
---                    R17  XDA    iW.s    m      Za9   MJ   333    Sai  iJ  4Z2  4SL3
hw=pimkf9 7.    ma   ]so    ml   10mu  Wf.7   am    2W   3J   3 2   114
-  *' -                2S.3   ma   1.    ID9   072    1         D,S   0.5  1122  113S  m.7
s=i                                   %9.2   9.3   7.    7.    7J    W2
G.i                                          6.2   6.1   7.8    85    9.1    99
dqhs (4eC (-)                                 so    3.2     -     4       96  8  49
QWAMFRMM43    135   11    18    2.7    Z.B
IM.    0Ga2   ID     0o    0       as
QWB
(Womomco                          UD~~~~~~53    6.    3.7
lm    4m    403
1_  ZS  4A
V                                ~~~~~~~~~D 0E    woL
_ 9=dmUcW   -                    117           La
7/        id* na  km   -              r i 3z---  r1- ph.
7 M PlSam   19bdim tm  bo6nm:d  d
~~~~~F umSd.d=mm=dd
Jb BOi 
ai          DDk



- 25 -
35    3?m  n 1
a- ' Ri,--                                                                                  -    -            a
W        ai  ~                  2JS   2.3   W    L        4.    4 54W    6W  -:CW   4W    4D3   4.   -VW  -
bumdm           d n            2WD  231  2,U   3,0   3.3   5a3  6DB   6,9   5I6    5.3  50b  5,    %     AM
Sr  xxw   *   U   6;m 7                                                           
cut  DMM  *& 30   flD                          0            91   111 El        111 -U    -W  -til  -      WA ia  - -
Ntam _e        _t                  31    a      CO    a    M       B    ZB    31    S        AU    AM   3D   MD  MD
" ]zwmdl~    m                 In    U   X               a  zi    V        j       n    low   tm    4ns I'm   La 1.s
mwr                              (      cl)    c    cm    Co)   (e   C10  (m        U)    C       a) a(3    3a c (1w) ()
(Nw.                              -46    U     B      U    -0    316    313   UB   -m  -L1     .617             -M    0
a_        __                 zu-s              a      as   LW   -W S     a     7S   IM      I 
.N   -      -    (mdi)             -    1s    2,3  2US   4.    SAw      WI  '46   3.3          71        21  A2.336
M=mm=htcEft=(xl          hfmdm)   50    73    98    .1  11.5  ll   111   8.    64            43    4A    6.     U 41  6
a ~ ~~           ~      ~~~   21    is 8  35 2          1,03  1,31   1,211  1,2  1,753
1_odm                            42    a3    25    3       3      46           6 36   42   40
_oL                             Om(Q    (    (31)  (4S   (a   (co   CZ)   (7)  (a    (a)
ML.                             (-)   (3)    -    (-)  (e   (-)   (i   (3    (R  (C)
3 6    3a    3)   D1    %3    W2  1,33   1,    ImD   1
(1D    CD   (14)  (13   (4)  (1)   (!)   (M    C    (D.)
1Dc                                   0      U)   U)   a       Cm    CM)  cm1     C   (40
F (II)        )   CU   a(    (Q7)  (71)   (S   mDe   0M
ft3m                 (353  ~~~~~ ~ ~~~(11  (13A)  (73a-   go    (UI)  (2   cm)
am       zdud          2       M7 2^       2M    Z      3." 4F       MD   US   6M   7$I
aBud                           .7%  LJ  1W n      u   2.w  Zs  2   3w  3in  &
m                    m      m~~~~~~~~S   t7    051   cm    al9  (lieD  U  (M9   No7
-R                            co.6)  (62(  (7O   CZD (Z13    CO) O.  m (             am
an                           (M   (i  nL   nXm  Cls   CIm  CAO  CAN    m    0=z
RA                              6%  C  5     46           gl   IA*   7.0   Zq;   3J   3M
tUDw T                           U k   91 iB L3   I.    14?  2/L  27   3IN    3W   kW
15    0    31    3B   63    5S    C2    S1          1  17
o1f   o                        1.7   9.2   9.0   9.3   MD9   395       6   L       M.2    5
-   i-n2ZGP                      La    La    Ui    17    23    LB    L9    2.3   25   I1
Aw   bm     aIiik=CD             7.5   67    73    7.9 1L   133   120 Dl6   19   IDA
(6-    (A    (.   CM)  (7.7)  eU    (7.)  (    (M  (mam)
amwfc EM_1 (wo             IS   1469   11i2    W         30     "    Ma    M          S    N
tFafga                        06.    (     CJLQ   (8  (17   (ISa)  (1    (.D )  (AM7 (n.m()
R (1I)  am   (M9                                        (Doi  (2.9)  (1.0   CM)
WBDVn3lD                         .7   2;.2   7      37   19   2.2   ZID   2Z5   29   M2A8
TMd.4 a1mdk                     2.3   ZJJ    .7   Jn        .   2LA    30   MA   2L.2  3
-:t m _ou3M                            39   3S   38    3.5   V3   110   21.7   31    3
MLmykcam                (.9   0.9   as8   08    O       0.5   0A      3    0.3  0.2
Ud*=aimft=         dwbnm          -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -      -    -
MLddrswduw%nLddrwEdm             03    02  -0.    Oa    (1   fi1    0.1        1    (i1  0.1
af     19ddb&*1mI
nW wd*WdygM  d*



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LCANS AND IDA CREDITS IN COLOMBIA (as of September 30, 1985)
(US$million)
Loan                                                           Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                        Purpose           Bauk  IDA   Undisbursed
72 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                   1,743.8  23.5 1/    -
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Comunications    57.6              14.7
1471    1977  Colombia                        Highways           90.0              2.6
1487    1978  Colombia                        Nutrition          25.0              0.5
1558    1978  Colombia                        Urban Develop-
ment            24.8              3.4
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power              126.0              4.1
1583    1978  Colombia                        Power              50.0             10.4
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial y        Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena          Export          15.0              1.9
1694    1979  Colombia                        Urban Develop-
ment            13.5              6.2
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply      27.9              0.1
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               72.0             10.2
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply       30.5             7.3
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria               Agriculture Cr.   20.0              4.7
1807    1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power             84.6             32.6
1825    1980  Empresas Publicas de Nedellin  Communications    44.0                3.2
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica           Industrial Cr.   150.0              32.4
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power              124.9             48.5
1953    1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power               85.0             64.9
1966    1981  Colombia                        Rural Roads        33.0             10.0
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Hidrologia                    Irrigation        37.0             13.9
1/ Includes exchange adjustment of USS4.0 million.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 27-
Annex II
Page 2 of 4
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1985)
Number  Year  Borrower                         Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
1999    1981  Corp  acion Electrica de la
Costa Atlantica               Pover              36.0             15.0
2008    1981  E-presa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power             359.0            171.7
2069    1981  Iustltuto Nacional de los
Recursos Naturales
Renovables y del Medio        Watershed
Ambiente                      Management          9.0              7.2
2090    1982  Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                      Railways           73.8             63.7
2121    1982  Fondo Vial Nacional              Highways          149.6             86.2
2174    1982  Colombia                         Rural Develop-
ment             53.0            44.8
2192    1982  Fonda del Ministerio de
Educacion                     Rural Education   15.0              12.0
2303    1983  Instituto Colombiano             Agricultural
Agropecuario                    Research         63.4             57.6
2349    1983  Carbones de Colombia. S.A.       Coal
Exploration      9.5              8.7
2379    1984  Colombia                         Earthquake Re-
construction    40.0             24.6
2401    1984  Financiera Electrica Nacional  Power Develop-
ment Finance   170.0              54.3
2449    1984  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Multipurpose
power & water
supply         164.5            150.2
2453    1984  Federacion Nacional de           Agricultural
Cafeteros de Colombiano         diversifi-       50.0             46.3
cation
2464    1984  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.    40.0              30.4
2470    1984  Empresas Municipales             Water Supply       18.5             17.3
de Cucuta
2476-   1984  Empresa Colombiana de Petrol   Petroleum           130.0            106.2
2477    1984  Banco de la Republica            Development
Banking         90.0             82.7
2512    1985  Empresa Acueducto                Water Supply      129.0            120.9
Alcantarillo de Bogota
2551    1985  Republic of Colombia             Trade Policy      300.0            185.5
Export Diver-
sification
26111/  1985  Republic of Colombia             Health Services
Integration     36.5             36.5
TOTAL                                           4,791.4  23.5
Of which has been repaid                        1,033.1   5.1
Total now outstanding                           3,758.3  18.4
Amount sold                           51.0          -
Of which has been repaid             51.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  3,758.3  18.4
_
Total undisbursed                                                1,593.4
-   _
1/ Not yet effective.



- 28 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 4
B. STATENENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1985
Fiscal                                            Type of               Amount in US$ Million
Year                    Obligor                    Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1959           Lamlaas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board            .50               .50
1960-1965      Industrias Allmentlclas
Noel, S.A.                     Food products         1.98    .08       2.06
1961           Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans             .70      -        .70
1961-1968      Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                    Home furniture         .08    .09        .17
1961           Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical equlpment .50        -        .50
1962-85        Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                         financing         6.00   2.02       8.02
1962-1963-85   Corporacion Financiera             Development
Nacional                           financing         6.00   2.04       8.04
1963-1967      Compar.4a Colombiana de            Textiles              1.98    .15       2.13
1968-1969        Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970      Corporacion Financiera de          Development
Caldas                             financing            -    .81        .81
1964-1968      Forjas de Colombia, S.A.            Steel forging           -   1.27       1.27
1966           Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing           1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966           Industria Ganadera                 Livestock             1.00    .58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74-85  ENKA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles             11.75   2.61      14.36
1969           Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism                  -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973      Corporacion Financiera del         Development
Norte                              financing            -    .45        .45
1969-85        Corporacion Financiera del         Development
Valle                              financing         6.00    .43       6.43
1970           Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism                .23    .11        .34
Turismo Hedellin, S.A.
1970-1977      Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                  lourism                .80    .24       1.04
1973-1975      Corporacion Colombiana de          Housing                  -    .46        .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974           Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement                1.50      -       1.50
1975           Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement                3.60      -       3.60
1976           Las Brisas                         Mining                6.00      -       6.00
1977           Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.           Utilities            13.00   2.00      15.00
1977           Compania Colombiana de Clinker,  Cement and
S.A.                               Construction
Material          0.49   2.24       2.73



- 29 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1985) (Continued)
Fiscal                                            Type of              Amount in USS Million
e   Year                     Obligor                   Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1981-1985      Leasing Bolivar                    Leasing              9.00      .20     9.20
*    1981-1982      Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12.15    3.86    16.01
1983           Frigorificos Colombianos, S.A.   Food Processing        1.00    0.54      1.54
1984           Cementos Rioclaro S.A.             Cement and
Construction
daterial        21.86    5.00    26.86
1984           Carbones del Caribe S.A.           Mining              10.24    1.64    11.88
Total Gross Commitments                               117.36   26.83   144.19
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                        67.34    9.59    76.93
Total couitments now held by IFC                       50.02   17.24    67.26
Total undisbursed (including                          45.39    6.36    51.75
participants)                                               -



- 30 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
BARRANQUILLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I : Timetable of Key Events
a) Time taken to prepare project:            7 months
b) Project prepared by:                      EPMB assisted by consultants
and the Bank
c) First presentation to Bank:               August 1984
d) Departure of Appraisal Mission:           February 1985
e) Completion of negotiations:               October 1985
f) Planned date of effectiveness:            March 1985
Section II : Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III : Special Conditions
EPMB to:
- Enter into an agreement with the Department of Atlantico, no later than
January 31, 1986, to obtain a grant of US$4.3 million equivalent from the
Department for the project (para. 47).
- Maintain management continuity and ensure a high level of competence in
its management staff (para. 49).
- Employ consultants for the technical assistance associated with the
project's institutional development component (condition of disbursement,
para. 50).
- Employ consultants satisfactory to the Bank for construction
supervision (condition of disbursement, para. 50).



- 31 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
- Maintain a unit in its Planning Department, with staff and functions
acceptable to the Bank, to coordinate the project's institutional development
component (para. 50).
- As a condition for provision of water by EPMB, enter into arrangements
with JAC's (a) assigning them responsibility for selection of locations for
and proper maintenance of standpipes, and (b) establishing a mechanism for
collection of payment for water consumed (para. 51).
- Take all actions necessary to maintain revenues at a level sufficient
to cover, both for EPMB's water and sewerage operations and for its consolid-
ated operations, operating and mainLonance expenses, working capital needs,
debt serv4   charges, including rescheduled payments to major creditors, and
at least 10% of capital expenditures starting in 1987 and increasing to 30%
by 1989 and thereafter (para. 57).
- Not incur any additional long-term debt or undertake any capital
expenditures in excess of US$200,000 equivalent per year without the Bank's
agreement (para. 57).
- Pay off its overdue debt with major creditors and suppliers in accord-
ance with an agreed schedule (condition of effectiveness, para. 57).
- Take actions necessary to achieve agreed financial and operational
performance targets (paras. 5B and 59).
- Regularly provide the Bank with sufficient information to enable it to
monitor EPMB's investment program, financial position and success in meeting
performance targets (para. 58).
Government to:
- Ensure that import licenses for goods purchased under the project would
be issued promply by the Instituto de Comercio Exterior (INCOMEX) (para. 53).
- Take actions to enable EPMB to maintain management continuity and
ensure a high level of competence in its management staff (para. 49).



