                  Document of
               The World Bank




                                                Report No: 34512

   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
  (CPL-40340 SCL-4034A SCPD-4034S PPFB-P2410)

                     ON A

             LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$36.4 MILLION

                    TO THE

DEMOCRATIC AND PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA

                   FOR AN

  INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT




               December 30, 2005

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective October 2005)

                                    Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DA)
                                         DA 1.00 = US$ 0.014
                                        US$ 1.00 = DA 72.00

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                    January -      December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASMIDAL: Entreprise Nationale des Engrais et Produits Phytosanitaires
BOD :     Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CNP :     Conseil National de la Planification
DGE :     Direction Générale de l'Environnement (General Directorate of the Environment)
EA :      Environmental Assessment
ENSIDER : Entreprise Nationale de Sidérurgie
EMPA :    Environmental Management Performance Agreement
FEDEP :   Fonds pour l'Environnement et la Dépollution
GOA :     Government of Algeria
HCEDD :   Haut Conseil de l'Environnement et du Développement Durable (High Council for the
         Environment and Sustainable Development)
HWM :    Hazardous Waste Management
IEW :    Inspectorats de l'Environnement de Wilaya (Wilaya Environment Inspectorates)
MICLE :  Ministère de l'lntérieur, des Collectivités Locales, et de l'Environnement
MIR:     Ministry of Industry and Restructuring
MAP:     Mono-Ammonium Phosphate
MLUPE:   Ministère de l'Aménagement du Territoire et de l'Environnement (Ministry of Land Use
         Planning and Environment)
MOH:     Ministry of Health
NEAP:    National Environment Action Plan
NEF:     National Environmental Fund
NGO:     Non Governmental Organizations
NOx :    Nitrogen Oxides
NPK:     Nitrogen-Phosphate-Potassium
PAH:     Polyaromatic Hydrocarbons
PE:      Public Enterprise
PIU:     Project Implementation Unit
QSA:     Quality at Supervision Assessment
SIDER:   Entreprise Nationale de Sidérurgie
SO2:     Sulfur Dioxide
TSP:     Total Suspended Particles
VOC:     Volatile Organic Hydrocarbons
WHO:     World Health Organization

                                  Vice President:      Christiaan Poortman
                               Country Director        Theodore Ahlers
                                 Sector Manager        Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan

Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Hocine Chalal

                    DEMOCRATIC AND PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
                        INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
    6. Sustainability                                                                11
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
    9. Partner Comments                                                              14
    10. Additional Information                                                       14
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
    Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report                                    27
Maps: IBRD: 27060R, 27061

Project ID: P004960                                                  Project Name: IND.POLLUTION CTRL.
Team Leader: Hocine Chalal                                           TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: IND.POLLUTION CTRL.                                      L/C/TF Number: CPL-40340; SCL-4034A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-4034S;
                                                                                                     PPFB-P2410
   Country/Department: ALGERIA                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Petrochemicals and fertilizers (45%); Other industry (42%); Central government
                            administration (13%)
                  Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Environmental policies and institutions
                            (P); Law reform (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/01/1993                                     Effective: 03/19/1997                03/19/1997
     Appraisal: 05/25/1995                                         MTR: 10/22/2001                  10/22/2001
      Approval: 06/11/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          ALGERIAN GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF INTERIOR & ENVIRONMENT
                      Other Partners:      ASMIDAL Co., SIDER Co.

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan Poortman                            Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Daniel Ritchie
Sector Manager:                 Vijay Jagannathan                              Mark Wilson
Team Leader at ICR:             Hocine Chalal                                  Sherif Kamel F. Arif
ICR Primary Author:             Hocine Chalal; Ahmed El-Hamri


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
According to the Staff Appraisal Report (March 1996), the project's initial broad objective was to assist
the Government of Algeria (GOA) in reducing pollution, which was causing health problems and serious
ecological degradation. Its specific objectives were to: (1) strengthen the institutional and legal framework;
and (b) initiate a pilot investment program to mitigate pollution in the industrial sector of Annaba, situated
in the northeastern region of Algeria.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the project was revised three times (see section 3.4 below), the original objectives were not
modified.

3.3 Original Components:
Component A: Strengthening of the institutional and legal framework: This consisted of four
subcomponents:
·       The Institution Building Subcomponent, which consisted of activities aimed at strengthening the
        technical and administrative capacity of: (i) the Haut Commissariat à l'Environnement et au
        Développement Durable (HCEDD) as the cross-sectoral forum for environmental policies and its
        sub-commissions, both of which would oversee and review, inter alia, the National Environmental
        Action Plan (NEAP); (ii) Direction Générale de l'Environnement (DGE) as the national
        environmental agency responsible for national policies, NEAP preparation, proposing legislation,
        and ensuring operational and technical cooperation; (iii) the sector ministries of Industry and
        Restructuring (MIR) and Health (MOH) and the National Planning Council (Conseil National de
        la Planification- CNP) for assisting in EA and audit preparation in the sectors; preparing health
        risk assessment (MOH), and environmental planning (CNP); and (iv) the Inspections de
        l'Environnement de Wilaya (IEW) in Annaba, Skikda, Constantine, Algiers, and Oran to undertake
        monitoring and enforcement activities. This subcomponent also included the promotion and
        introduction of clean technology.

·       The Enhancement of the Legal and Regulatory Subcomponent which consisted of activities
        aimed at providing GOA with the administrative, management, and technical tools to: (i) review,
        update, and modify the most important legal texts and regulations derived from the framework
        environmental law and eliminate overlaps and contradictions; (ii) apply the modified Environmental
        Assessment (EA) decree as an effective policy instrument and develop the appropriate procedures
        and sector guidelines; (iii) issue and adopt the modified decrees for the classified establishments,
        including the issuance of environmental permits, training and technical assistance for handling the
        transport of hazardous waste; and (iv) undertake a study on environmental liabilities.

·       Design and Implementation of a System for Monitoring and Enforcement Subcomponent: this
        subcomponent consisted of the design and implementation of an environment permit system on a
        pilot basis in Annaba and Skikda. Based on the modified decree on classified establishments, an
        environmental permit would be issued after negotiation between the DGE/IEW and each
        establishment. This permit would determine a ceiling on the pollution amount that each
        establishment would be allowed to discharge in a given medium by determining local environmental
        guidelines, as well as a program (when necessary) for reducing the total pollution load over a
        specific time, consistent with the technology used and the financial status of each establishment.
        With this sub-component, DGE and the corresponding IEW should be able to monitor the pollution
        contracts and test a series of enforcement measures and financial incentives to mitigate pollution in



                                                      - 2 -

         an integrated manner.

·        The National Environmental Fund (NEF) Subcomponent, which aimed at making the NEF
         operational and then expand its role into an effective instrument of environmental financing as a
         Fonds de Dépollution et de Protection de l'Environnement (FDEPE). This subcomponent would
         finance two studies on activating the NEF and establishing the FDEPE and on the development of
         economic and financial incentives. It was intended to promote the FDEPE into a financial
         intermediary that would provide loans and credits from GOA contributions, future Bank loan
         proceeds, international donors, and environmental taxes and fees whenever they are legally
         established.

Component B: Pilot Investments Aimed at Mitigating the Adverse Impact of Industrial Pollution in
the Northeast of Algeria: This component covered environmental investments in the Fertilizer Complex
of ASMIDAL and in the Iron and Steel Complex of ENSIDER. These two plants were located in the area
of Annaba.

·        The investment in the ASMIDAL complex consisted of: (a) dismantling and decontaminating the
         sulfuric and phosphoric acid plants of ASMIDAL; (b) the provision of phosphoric acid and/or
         mono-ammonium phosphate to compensate for losses in production; (c) the rehabilitation of the gas
         treatment system in the nitric acid plant and the granulation units used in the fertilizer production;
         (d) the installation of a scrubber or a granulator in the ammonium nitrate plant; (e) the
         rehabilitation of the harbor reception facility in the port of Annaba; (f) the provision of spare parts
         and materials for the phosphate and nitrogen fertilizers production lines; and (g) support in the
         areas of plant operation and management, and workers' health and safety standards through
         technical and management training.

·        The investment in the ENSIDER Steel Complex consisted of: (a) the installation of dust removal
         systems for the electric and blast furnaces and sintering plants, and installations of a suitable door
         cleaning system in the coke ovens and a boiler for aluminum distillation.; (b) the provision of
         equipment for the construction of two (2) wastewater treatment plants and the renovation of the
         existing biological wastewater treatment plant; (c) the provision of laboratory equipment to
         monitor pollution; (d) the provision of spare parts and materials for the plants; and (e) support in
         the areas of plant operation and management, and workers' health and safety standards, through
         technical and management training.
3.4 Revised Components:
In view of the difficulties resulting from the early institutional instability of the sector, project components
were revised on three different occasions during the first half of the implementation period. These changes
were considered necessary to adapt to the rapidly changing institutional and economic environment, while
retaining consistency with the original project objectives. However, in spite of the difficulties, this process
ensured that continuity of implementation enabled achieving the project's objective of decreasing
significantly the pollution in one of the most polluted areas in Algeria and in establishing a sound
institutional and legal framework for environmental management. In this context, the project became also a
means for engaging GOA in a continuous dialogue that proved to be useful for carrying out the needed
institutional reforms of the sector with the Bank's assistance.

A first revision took place in November 1998 and was aimed at correcting some aspects of the design of
the pilot investments components.




                                                       - 3 -

         ASMIDAL Pilot Investment: the provision of phosphoric acid and ammonium phosphate to
         compensate for losses in production was cancelled from the loan and the installation of a
         granulator in the ammonium nitrate plant was retained in lieu of the installation of a scrubber.
         Furthermore, it was also decided to dismantle and cease all operations of the sulfuric and
         phosphoric acid plants in lieu of their decontamination. This project revision kept all other
         activities.

         ENSIDER Pilot Investment: the project revision eliminated the installation of a dust removal
         system for the electric and blast furnaces and sintering plants, and the installation of a suitable
         door system in the coke ovens and a boiler for ammonium distillation. However, the project opted
         instead to install dust removal systems for the coke ovens and blast furnaces, and installation of
         equipment for ammonium distillation and desulphurization. All other activities were kept.

The second significant project revision took place in May 2002. It aimed at canceling remaining funds
from the loan for the ASMIDAL and SIDER components at the request of the two companies. The two
companies having decided to carry out the agreed environment pollution abatement program using other
sources of funding (ASMIDAL's financial situation was becoming increasingly more comfortable due to
increase of Ammonia price on the world market, and SIDER was in the process of negotiating a take-over
from an international steel manufacturing conglomerate ­ LNM Steel). Taking advantage of the revision of
the project scope, the Ministry of Environment requested re-allocating a portion of the cancelled amount for
the implementation of a component that had been pre-appraised and which was to be financed by GoA
following agreement made during negotiations. This component consisted of establishing a pilot hazardous
waste treatment facility, by financing costs of works, provision of technical assistance, purchase of
collection and treatment equipment, including the preparation of an environmental impact assessment and
relevant technical, economic and engineering studies for the establishment, operation and supervision of the
waste facility. As for the components of the pilot investments, they were redefined according to the
activities already completed. The activities that had not yet been implemented were to be financed by the
companies themselves.

The impact of this revision of the project scope on the loan amount and structure was the following: US$
41.4 million was cancelled from the loan representing the cost of remaining activities which were part of
component B. However, it was agreed that ASMIDAL as well as SIDER (through the newly created
entity, after LNM take over) would stay committed towards the originally planned environmental
investment activities and objectives using their own funds. This cancellation left a total of US$ 36.6
million corresponding to the previously disbursed activities under component B, financed activities under
component A, of which US$ 10.5 million was allocated for the financing of the hazardous waste
subcomponent.

As the main mitigating measures for ensuring the sustainability of the project outcomes and the
achievement of the project objectives, performance agreements were established between both ASMIDAL
and SIDER with the Ministry of Environment. These performance agreements were implemented as means
to ensure that ASMIDAL-FERTIAL and ENSIDER-ISPAT would continue to implement industrial
pollution abatement in accordance with their initial commitments to the Project objectives.          These
performance agreements were essentially a voluntary process through which the Ministry of Environment
could monitor progress in emission reduction in the two companies in return for a commitment to assist
these companies through various ways. This approach proved attractive as fairly quickly thereafter about
twenty five companies decided to engage in the same type of agreements with the Ministry of Environment.
During the negotiation process leading to these agreements, it was made clear that this approach was not
intended at replacing enforcement action based on the current environmental protection law, but rather to


                                                    - 4 -

complement the latter in a cost effective manner.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. The project was developed under an interim assistance strategy
of the Bank for Algeria (the 1996 CAS was a one-year strategy) which aimed at addressing urgent sectoral
issues considering the political and institutional situation prevailing at the time. The project's overall
objective was consistent with the 2003 CAS that identified two main strategic objectives; (i) improved
business environment and (ii) public service delivery. The project was a catalyst for the delivery of
institutional and sectoral reforms as well as an adequate framework to implement result-oriented
environmental management tools on the institutional and operational sides of the sector.

The project was developed on the basis of a thorough analysis of the sector strategy. The technical and
institutional design was based on an institutional and legal assessment of the sector, on a pollution loads
assessment and on health impact assessments. These studies indicated that pollution, from public sector
industries on the northeastern coast and located, in particular, in or around the cities of Annaba and Skikda,
was a major problem that needed to be urgently addressed, especially given its impact on human health.
The environmental investments component was considered essential to the project as it had the potential for
demonstrating the necessary link between environmental management and concrete actions on the ground
aimed at reducing industrial pollution. Furthermore, these investments proved to be positive test cases and
learning experiences for other similar investments. In addition, policy and institutional assessment were
also carried out during project preparation, which led to the approval of a National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP) for Algeria.

In retrospect, the initial design of the project may have been overly ambitious as it included groundbreaking
institutional reforms coupled with physical environmental investments, which had never been done in
Algeria. Nevertheless, the approach followed did recognize explicitly the risks involved with regard to the
project implementation challenges at a time when Algeria was entering a phase of reforms and when
institutions and government agencies were in a transitional phase. Given the project's complex design, it
took GOA some time to build adequate ownership as the institutions in charge of environmental policy and
management were being established at the same time. The project environment was further rendered
difficult because of the civil strife situation during the 1990's that did not allow for strong and consistent
counterpart's commitment. Relatively more stable project management conditions were reached only in
2001 with the establishment of a Ministry of Land Use Planning and Environment (MLUPE) which has
been retained through every government changes since then.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of DO is rated as satisfactory.             Overall, project implementation has resulted in the
achievement of the initial objectives. The legal and institutional framework has been significantly improved
and most of the pollution abatement measures were completed under the project. Industrial pollution in the
northeast of Algeria has been considerably curtailed. Air pollution in the Annaba region has been improved
as emissions have been reduced leading to significant improvement in ambient air quality, as measured for
the most exposed city of El Bouni, by up to 56 % for PM10, 89% for SO2 and 98% for NOx. Health
surveys of respiratory morbidity before and after the project implementation have shown a decrease by
25% and 46% respectively for respiratory illness and for asthma in downtown Annaba. The impact is even
greater in the more exposed cities of El Bouni and Sidi Amar which show an improvement on asthma
morbidity rate of, respectively 83% and 78%.




                                                      - 5 -

Specific Objectives related to the pilot investments have also been achieved and their outcome is
considered as satisfactory.

Project Activities carried out by ASMIDAL have resulted in a significant reduction of air emissions as
well as wastewater discharges. These are as follows:
     (i) The rehabilitation of the nitric acid plant helped in significantly reducing air emissions, which are
     currently under control and are well below accepted norms. NOx emissions are below 300mg/Nm3 and
     dust emissions are at less than 50mg/Nm3;
     (ii) The installation of new production process at the ammonium nitrate plant reduced NOx emissions
     to less than 150 ppm, ammonia emissions to less 50mg/Nm3, and fluorine emissions to less than
     5mg/Nm3;
     (iii) Wastewater discharge indicators show that suspended solids are less the 30mg/l, oxygen load is
     less than 120 mg/l, fluorine is at less than 20mg/l and, ammonia is at less than 10mg/l.; and
     (iv) Discontinuation of phosphogypsum discharges in the Bay of Annaba by an amount of 288,000
     tons per year.

Project Activities that were implemented by ENSIDER have also resulted in an important reduction of
its pollution loads. These are as follows:
     (i) Dust emissions from the blast furnace and steelworks are presently at less than 50mg/Nm3 and
     particulate load is less than 0.15 Kg/ton;
     (ii) The installation of an ammonia distillation and incineration system helped achieve a reduction of
     nitrogen oxide to less than 6 Kg/ton of coke output. Benzene is at less than 0.1 Kg/ton of coke output
     and organic compounds are at less than 0.3 Kg/ton of coke output and 20 mg/Nm3; and
     (iii) Wastewater discharge indicators reveal that suspended solids are less than 30mg/l, oils less
     20mg/l.

The effort towards strengthening the legal and institutional framework has resulted in a more
comprehensive regulatory framework and in the establishment of reliable institutional functions and
departments. In addition, the project was a catalyst for the implementation of a coherent environmental and
sustainable development policy through the introduction of the concept of integrated pollution control
approach, and for the improvement of the legal basis of the national environmental fund. Other
achievements include training and human resource development, the development of a national
environmental knowledge base, the establishment of reference laboratories and air monitoring networks in
the cities of Algiers and Annaba, and the establishment of an environmental information system.

Although the project had undergone two significant revisions, the achievement of initial objectives has not
been compromised. In addition, the substance of the objective that had been initially sought was achieved,
and a positive learning experience ensued from project implementation. Consequently, even with the
cancellation of US$ 41.4 million, the project produced positive results and outcomes consistent with the
initial objectives. This feature was recognized by the QAG/QSA review of the project in 2004.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A1: Legal and Institutional Component: Implementation rating: satisfactory.

Institutional Strengthening Subcomponent: rated satisfactory: Completion of this subcomponent has
resulted in strengthening the institutional capability of MLUPE in key areas of environmental management:

          (i) Environmental Regulation Enforcement has been strengthened through the establishment of
          reliable institutional functions and departments such as the Environment General Directorate, 48


                                                       - 6 -

        regional inspection departments (Inspections de Wilaya) and the establishment, within the
        industrial environment policy department of the Ministry, of a unit specialized in the development,
        implementation and monitoring of more than twenty-five (25) environmental management
        performance agreements;

        (ii) Environmental Policy:       The project has also helped in the development of a coherent
        environmental and sustainable development policy the preparation of a Sustainable Development
        and National Environment Action Plan (NEAP-SD), which was formally adopted by the
        government. Furthermore, it helped strengthen the linkages between the environment and the
        economic/productive sectors through the creation of fiscal incentives for the disposal of solids and
        hazardous waste as well as through the establishment of an Environment and Pollution Abatement
        Fund (FEDEP);

        (iii) Training and Human Resource Development : 363 sector professionals were trained in the
        areas of environmental management.

        (iv) Development of a National Environmental Knowledge Base: This component strengthened
        the expertise of MLUPE and helped in the formulation of sectoral policies such as solid waste
        management, environmental accountability and liability, environmental audits of areas at risk
        (Oued El Harrach Basin, Oued Seybouse Basin) and of industrial plants (Ghazaouet Zinc factory
        and several Cement Plants);

        (v) Monitoring capacity: This area was strengthened through the establishment of three (03)
        Reference Laboratories in Algiers, Oran, and Constantine as well as regional air quality monitoring
        networks (SAMASAFIA) in Algiers and Annaba. In addition, four (04) wilaya laboratories were
        set-up for the purposes of monitoring environmental quality. Furthermore, an Environmental
        Information System was also established at the MLUPE.

Enhancement of the Legal and Regulatory Framework subcomponent: rated satisfactory

Completion of this subcomponent has resulted in the strengthening of the legal and regulatory framework
through (i) the adoption of three (03) new laws including an environmental protection law (Law No 3 of
July 19, 2003), which clearly restated environmental protection within the framework of sustainable
development, a decree on environmental liability, and a law on solid waste disposal. In addition, two (02)
decrees were drafted for the classification of all plants and facilities, and for environmental impacts
assessments. Furthermore, an industrial pollution control system based on environmental management
performance contracts (EMPA) was implemented.

Development of an Integrated Pollution Control System Subcomponent: Completion of this component
was achieved only for the city of Annaba and has resulted in: (i) The acquisition and installation of an air
quality-monitoring network; (ii) The implementation of a permit system needed to determine and monitor
emissions restrictions for polluting facilities; and (iii) The implementation of EMPAs for ASMIDAL and
ENSIDER.

National Environmental Fund Subcomponent (NEF): The NEF was expanded to include the authority
to finance investments in the areas of environmental cleanup and protection. A comprehensive study was
carried in order to determine the ways and means to amend and improve the NEF into a pollution
abatement fund within the national budget process.




                                                      - 7 -

Component A2: Hazardous Waste Management Component (HWM)

Although this component has not been completed, the likely outcome related to this component is rated
satisfactory. Indeed, detailed studies have been finalized under the project. These have been used as a
basis to draft bidding documents for civil works and equipment supply. The costs associated with these
activities will be financed by MLUPE/GOA's funds and the Bank would continue to provide limited
assistance and advisory services, outside the Loan, for the implementation and completion of the HWM
component. Bank's assistance would consist of review of the bidding documents and assistance for the
identification/selection of an operator for the Hazardous Waste Management Facility to be located near
Tebessa, in the eastern part of the country. The bidding documents for goods and works should be issued
by the end of 2005 and construction will then be financed through already allocated funds from GOA's
budget.

Component B: Environmental Investment Component

The outcome related to this component is rated satisfactory despite the cancellation of portion of the
loan initially allocated to the implementation of this component and considering the actualization of the
commitment of the two concerned companies to proceed towards reaching the original project objectives.
The following results show that the environmental impacts have been substantial as also demonstrated
through the cost-benefit analysis presented in annex 3 of this ICR.

ASMIDAL ­ FERTIAL (see table 2 annex 3 for project performance indicators):

ASMIDAL's project activities were put in motion based on technical and environmental audits that had
been previously carried out. Activity at the sulfuric acid plant had ended in December 1995, its
decommissioning took place in February 1997, and 9000 t/year of SOx emissions was eliminated. The
phosphoric acid unit had been closed in December 1995 and 300,000 t/year of phosphogypsum waste were
removed permanently. Other key project activities included: (i) the rehabilitation of the fertilizer plant,
which consisted in the installation of dust recovery system; (ii) the installation of an ammonia catalytic
reduction system; (iii) the installation of a liquid fertilizer production plant whose operations have resulted
in a significant nitrate dust reduction. The Project completion has also resulted in the improvement of air
quality in the area where the industrial complex is located and helped foster better public relations for
ASMIDAL. Total Project costs were US$20.75 million financed both by the project and by ASMIDAL
(see table 2 in annex 2).

ENSIDER (see table 3 annex 3 for project performance indicators)

ENSIDER's project activities were able to reduce industrial pollution through the following investments: (i)
installation of dust removal systems for the electric and blast Furnaces and Sintering Plants and installation
of a door Cleaning System in the coke ovens; (ii) installation of an ammonia distillation and incineration
System; (iii) installation of WWTP at the rolling-mill sites; and (iv) implementation of solid waste
reduction and recycling processes. In addition, implementation of a targeted environmental management
measures were carried out in parallel. Through the implementation of its environmental management
strategy, ENSIDER has been able to improve the quality of its air and liquid emissions and optimize its
energy use through the recycling of cooling water in various units. In addition, ENSIDER achieved a 13%
reduction on its energy consumption for the period 2001-2004 and saving 53% on its water use in 2004.
The impact of the project has been positive for the environment as well as for ENSIDER's operations.




                                                       - 8 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Using a dose-response model, a cost-benefit evaluation of the project's investments is included in Annex 3
(table 1). The analysis provides an evaluation of the benefits occurring in terms of: (i) direct public health
impacts on mortality and on morbidity which takes into account such cases as hospital admissions for
respiratory illnesses, emergency room visits, asthma attacks, other respiratory symptoms, chronic
bronchitis and children respiratory illnesses; (ii) indirect impact on limited activity which includes number
of activity days; (iii) fertilizer dust recycling by ASMIDAL from increased efficiency of the dust removal
equipment; (iv) impacts on the local fishing industry measured in terms of increases in the fish catch in the
bay of Annaba; and (v) impact on real estate values. Impacts on air quality and respiratory morbidity are
shown in tables 1-4 in annex 3.

An interesting characteristic of this project is that the benefits started to accrue when companies, and in
particular the company ASMIDAL, started to take measures such as the decommissioning of the Sulfuric
Acid and Phosphoric acid plants in 1995, in agreement with their commitments to the objectives of the
project. This point underscores the importance and efficiency of measures based on rigorous and inclusive
economic analysis that led to a beneficial solution both from the environmental and financial point of views.


Finally the analysis shows that during the period covered by the analysis, for each dollar invested in the
project by all stakeholders, nearly US$6.00 (benefit to cost ratio) were generated as direct benefits or as
avoided costs. This corresponds to a net present value of US$294 million and US$43 million (at 6%
discount rate- this relatively low discount rate to reflect the important public good and environmental
dimension of these costs and benefits), respectively for the total indirect and direct benefits and in the case
where only the health benefits are taken into consideration. At 10% discount rate these figures are,
respectively, US$246 million and US$31 million.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
As an environmental project, a financial rate of return was not calculated in the SAR and therefore is not
included in the ICR. Although it has not been calculated explicitly, the project has demonstrated in the case
of the two target companies, and especially ASMIDAL, that sound environmental objectives could be
consistent and actually reinforce the development strategy of the company.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
This outcome is rated substantial: The Ministry of Land Use Planning and Environment - MLUPE) was
the main beneficiary of the institutional strengthening component of the project. The project allowed
MLUPE to strengthen its operational capacity in key areas:

·       On the regulatory side, the project generated important guidance on the draft EIA decree that will
        be approved by the government in 2005-2006. Approval and implementation of this decree will
        provide a major alignment with the new environmental protection law enacted in 2003. In addition,
        the MLUPE has taken steps to extend the air quality monitoring networks to two other major cities
        of Skikda and Oran considering the success of the networks installed in Algiers and Annaba. The
        monitoring networks of Skikda and Oran will be financed by the budget of MLUPE. Furthermore
        legal provisions have been included in the 2005 budget law and have been prepared to be submitted
        to the government. These proposed changes will allow the proper use of the environment and
        pollution abatement fund (FEDEP) as a financial intermediary that will be able to provide financial
        incentives for industrial pollution abatement activities. The MLUPE has built confidence through
        the IPC project and is now developing a similar industrial pollution abatement project in
        Ghazaouet in the western part of the country.



                                                      - 9 -

·        At the local level, the environment inspectorates have been strengthened and able to play a
significant role in the local development policy.

·        A training program has been implemented and completed as part of the Technical Assistance
         component of the project and has helped to improve the expertise of professionals dealing with
         environmental management and natural resources protection.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During the 1990's decade, Algeria had been experiencing a period of political instability that affected the
institutional sphere and, in consequence, impacted negatively the implementation of most Bank-financed
project. Governmental policies were short-lived because of political changes and only in 2001 the first
signs of recovery and stability started to appear.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
It is considered that because of the factors mentioned in the previous paragraph, the government did not
provide adequate project ownership during the first half of the project implementation period. Project
implementation suffered greatly from the successive institutional changes that occurred in the sector. These
changes undermined the work of the project implementation unit, which itself was subject to several
changes. This resulted in delays in procurement for the three components and caused disbursements to lag
behind the initial schedule. In addition, ENSIDER, a public enterprise at the time of project effectiveness,
delayed implementation of all projects activities due to financial difficulties.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Borrower had great difficulty in adhering to Bank procurement procedures. This resulted in lengthy
approval procedures within the national public procurement system and consequently slowed the
implementation of contracts for the pilot investment projects as well as for the institutional strengthening
component. However, the main cause for this situation is more systemic to Algeria rather that specific to
the particular implementing agencies involved in the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The second loan amendment led to the cancellation of US$41.4 millions from the loan leaving US$11.6
million for ASMIDAL, US$4.0 million for ENSIDER (corresponding in the case of these two companies to
disbursements already made or to payments committed) and US$21.0 million for the institutional and legal
component of MLUPE (US$10.5 for the original institutional strengthening component and US$10.5
million for the new Hazardous Waste Treatment Plant component). The cancellation of a major share of
the loan did not affect significantly the implementation of the physical component of the project as the
companies decided to finance the remaining activities using their own resources. The project amount
actually totaled US$36.4 million of which US$23.4 million were effectively disbursed which is 64% of the
amended amount or 30% of the initial amount (see tables 1-2 in annex 2).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
This ICR rates the sustainability of the project as likely. The policy framework and components put in
place by the project and current GOA initiatives will ensure the sustainability of project outputs in the area
of industrial pollution control and Environmental Policy Management. The project has strengthened the
institutional and legal capacity within the environmental management framework. Key to the sustainability



                                                     - 10 -

aspect are the environmental management performance agreements, which have resulted in strengthening
compliance with environmental regulations in other sub-sectors of industry as industrial enterprises
operators and investors are including environmental management into their activities as well as a significant
improvement in monitoring and enforcement capabilities. The key accomplishments in this regard are: (i) a
strengthened environmental regulatory framework; (ii) the development by the Government of a coherent
environmental and sustainable development policy as well as a vital environmental program resulting from
the preparation of a Sustainable Development and National Environment Action Plan; (iii) the
establishment of a National Environmental Fund, this fund was expanded to include the possibility of
financing pollution abatement investments; (iv) the implementation of a critical training program that
should continue to strengthen and expand human resources capabilities in the areas of environmental
management; (v) the creation of a national environmental knowledge base that should provide a significant
analytical framework for local professionals working in the areas of environmental management, solid, and
hazardous waste disposal, environmental economics, and clean technologies; and (vi) the establishment of
monitoring capabilities at different level of the environmental administration and in particular the
establishment of air quality monitoring networks and environmental laboratories.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the investment projects leading to pollution abatement have been completed and commissioned by
ENSIDER and ASMIDAL.               These two companies have internalized good management practice,
established environmental units and signed with the ministry of environment voluntary environmental
performance agreements. These steps certainly helped the two companies negotiate successfully their
privatization process, by increasing their goodwill and decreasing the perceived risk of environmental
liabilities due to past pollution. It is also important to underscore that following the implementation of this
project, the companies adopted a more open communication policy towards the public and even organized
open-doorevents.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project preparation and appraisal are assessed as satisfactory. Formal appraisal took place in May
1995 and the Bank did allocate adequate resources for project preparation and for its assistance to the
Borrower in undertaking studies needed for the project. The overall risks of the projects were considered
high at the time of project preparation but the investment component of the project and later the hazardous
waste component were viewed as high risk but high rewards activities.

7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision is assessed as satisfactory The project was supervised in a complex country
environment characterized by institutional instability and security problems. However, despite frequent
changes in the counterpart decision makers during the initial stages of the project, the Bank team carried its
supervision of the project with commitment and was able to sustain continued sector dialogue that enabled
project revision in May of 2002. Continuity of supervision quality was ensured as Bank staff showed
flexibility and understanding in responding to evolving circumstances. Considerable supervision efforts
were given to the implementation of the hazardous waste management component as progress was slow and
implementation issues of the component required thorough attention to technical details. Overall, Bank
teams were well staffed with a good skill mix. Management and staff maintained strong continuity in the
dialogue with the counterpart. The PIU and the Bank team worked in tandem to ensure that progress in
implementation was achieved. Concrete progress had been made by July 2004 contributing to the
establishment of a stronger institutional and legal framework for environmental management. A QAG/QSA
review in October 2004 reached a similar conclusion regarding the supervision performance of the



                                                      - 11 -

project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Taking into account all of the above; the Bank's overall performance is assessed to have been
satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. Project objectives reflected GOA's commitment in strengthening its institutional capacity.
Sector's institutions were genuinely interested in developing a productive dialogue with the Bank. The
government committed to take unpopular actions in the case of the company ASMIDAL as required by the
project. Two of the plants constituting the fertilizer complex of ASMIDAL in Annaba were closed. One
was dismantled and the other retrofitted for the production of less polluting compound.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. As mentioned earlier, the political volatility that plagued the country during the 1990's led to
institutional instability that was detrimental to the project during the early years of the project. However,
by 2001, the Ministry of Land Use Planning and Environment was established and played an effective role
in revitalizing the project. The Ministry of Finance played also a catalytic role in ensuring that the most
pressing issues were dealt with diligently but the inability to support the implementing agencies in applying
the fiduciary requirements of the World Bank remained an impediment during the life of the project. The
adoption by the government of several measures and regulations resulting directly from the project activity
was a strong sign of government commitment and should be appreciated as such.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. Despite project implementation delays due to an array of different causes outside its direct
control, the implementation agencies (ASMIDAL, SIDER and MLUPE/DGE) performed adequately. For
instance, by mid-term review, stability in the main implementation entity (MLUPE/DGE) counterpart team
was regained and allowed an improvement in implementation performance.                 However, difficulty to
understand World Bank procurement process remained a significant hurdle.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Taking into account all of the above, the Borrower's overall performance is assessed to have been
satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1 General lessons from project design and implementation in the particular area of industrial
pollution control

         Implementation of the hazardous waste component: The project was right in adopting a careful
         approach in the implementation of the hazardous waste treatment facility in properly requesting an
         EIA as soon as it appeared that the original site considered during project preparation was no
         longer available. Then feasibility studies and market assessments were necessary to assess the
         financial viability of the project as well as the attractiveness of the project to the private sector.
         The lesson learned is that the quality of preparation has here led the client to continue the project
         using its own resources thus ensuring the sustainability of the action started under the project.

         Project ownership by the Borrower: Numerous institutional and administrative changes
         undermined responsibility and accountability for project implementation. Weak project ownership



                                                     - 12 -

        affected project implementation from 1997 to 2001 in terms of commitment to disbursement,
        compliance with the procurement schedule, and adherence to loan covenants.                 However,
        consistency in the dialogue finally bore fruits after institutional stability was regained in
        2001/2002.

8.2 Specific lessons for future projects in Algeria in the environmental area

        Industry's attitude towards environmental management policy: Project's implementation has
        resulted in shaping industry responses to environmental policy incentives and stronger enforcement.
        This is illustrated by the signing of more than 25 voluntary environmental performance agreements
        by other industrial operators. Furthermore, it shows that industry is willing to be more proactive in
        dealing with pollution abatement.

        Environmental Pollution Abatement Fund (FEDEP): This fund requires further improvements in
        terms of its governance, financial capacity, financing mechanism and environmental cleanup
        strategy. However, it has the potential of being a cornerstone for the sustainable financing of
        environmental investments, provided further attention is paid to overcoming regulatory and
        institutional barriers preventing its upgrading. FEDEP's main role focuses on two areas of
        environmental management: one is related to the issue of the environmental liability for past
        pollution and the other is related to the promotion of cleaner technologies.

        ASMIDAL and ENSIDER Pilot Projects: These two projects proved to be catalysts for the
        project impacts as they resulted in concrete reduction in industrial pollution and proved to be
        encouraging test cases for the implementation of environmental management tools such as the
        environment performances agreements and integrated pollution control approaches. They provide
        a learning experience that should be used as reference for future projects.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(a) Borrower/ implementing agency:

The borrower, represented by the Ministry of Land Use Planning and Environment, has reviewed the
Bank's ICR and found it appropriate. This feedback was provided by email on December 24, 2005.

The borrower has prepared its completion report, a summary of which is appended in Annex 8 of this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                 Key Performance Indicators                          Baseline       MTR            End of
                                                                                                   Project
                   Outcome/Impact Indicator                                   Target  Actual  Target   Actual
1-Increase in environmentally related investment included
as priorities in the NEAP in US$ million                                78.0   132.0   132.0   200.0    200.0
2- Increase in the number of environment professionals in
sector ministries and local agencies                                    115    215     225     280       315
3- Number of participants in training programs                           0     225     250     560       363
4- Number of completed studies                                           0       3      2       4         4
5- Number of legal regulations enacted                                  n.a             2*                4
6- Release of dusts to air (t/y)                                      40,000  10,000    n.a   11,000     n.a
7- Reduction of SO2 to air (t/y)                                      16,400   7,000    n.a    n.a      8,000
8- Reduction of Phosphogypsum to water (t/y)                         288,000     0      0       0         0
9- Reduced perceived respiratory morbidity in downtown                42.3%                             32%
Annaba
10- Reduced in Asthma prevalence                                       7.8%                             1.3%
   - El Bouni                                                          6.3%                             1.4%
   - Sidi Amar
10- Reduced emissions of SOx from the ASMIDAL                        3096 t/y         0.0 t/y           0.0 t/y
fertilizer
Complex.
11. Reduced dust emissions from the ASMIDAL fertilizer                 5405            300               300
Complex.
* 2 laws enacted (updated environmental protection law and solid waste law)
  2 decrees pending (EIA and hazardous and dangerous establishments)




                                                          - 14 -

     Table 2 : Pilot Industrial Pollution Abatements Projects: ASMIDAL-FERTIAL ­ Components Outputs

         ASMIDAL-FERTIAL Project Activities                                                                              Outputs
 Implementation of Environmental                An Environmental Management Unit was put in place
 Management Performance Contract                Installation of a monitoring system/detecting unit that analyze gaseous emissions
                                                & dusts of smokestacks of the facilities at the plant
                                                All air emissions and wastewater are under control and are well below accepted norms
                                                Installation of equipments for optimal NOx and Fluoride uses/dosage
                                                Other emissions: Wastewater- PH:6.0 - 8.5; Suspended Solids are at less than 30 mg/L;
                                                Oxygen load requirement is at less 120 mg/L; Fluorine is at less than 20 mg/L; Nitrogen
                                                (ammonia) is at less 10 mg/L
 Nitric Acid Plant                              Rehabilitation of equipments for the reduction of residual gases
                                                Installation of Equipments for ammonium catalytic reduction
                                                NOx emissions are below 300mg/Nm3; Dust emissions are at les than 50 mg/Nm3
                                                or less than 100 ppm.
                                                Implementation of s system for equipments' preventive maintenance
NPK Plant                                       Installation and effective operation of a dedusting system for two production lines at
                                                the fertilizer plant
                                                Implementation of s system for equipment preventive maintenance
Ammonium Nitrate Plant                          Installation of a new production line, including a new process (UAN) that allows the
                                                production of dust-free liquid fertilizers. The change in the production process,
                                                including a catalyst resulted in the reduction of NOx emissions to less than 150ppm.
                                                Ammonia emissions are at less than 50 mg/Nm3, Fluorine emissions are at less than 5
                                                mg/Nm3
Sulfuric Acid Plant                             Evaluation/Assessment of the operation to decontaminate the area in which is located
                                                the sulfuric acid plant
                                                ASMIDAL-FERTIAL is in the process of mobilizing financing to implement the
                                                decontamination operation.
Solid Waste Management                          Implementation of solid waste reduction and recycling processes
                                                The installation of a new dedusting system resulted in the reduction of solid waste
                                                accumulation.
                                                Hazardous Waste Management: All PCB based electrical transformers have been
                                                inventoried and stocked
                                                Other hazardous waste are disposed of and stocked according to new environmental
                                                norms
                                                Other recyclable solid waste, including sale to recycling companies, is subject to well
                                                and environmentally accepted procedures. Income from sale of recyclable waste is
                                                being used for the purposes of environmental management.
Training and Awareness Campaign                 ASMIDAL-FERTIAL continues to provide HR training in the following areas:
                                                Monitoring and control of air emissions and used water discharges; Hazardous waste
                                                Management; and Environmental management systems




                                                             - 15 -

    Table 3: Pilot Industrial Pollution Abatements Projects: ENSIDER-ISAPT ­ Components Outputs

             ENSIDER-ISPAT Project Activities                                                                                          Outputs
Implementation of Environmental                              Implementation of an Environmental Management Action Plan (EMAP) aimed at reducing pollution
Management Performance Contract                              Designation of monitors to follow up on the implementation of EMAP at the production plants
                                                             Implementation of Awareness Campaigns targeted at the production plants
                                                             A monitoring and control team is in place since 1998. A Environmental Management Department,
                                                             comprised of 3 engineers, is also in place.
 Installation of Dust Removal Systems for                    (1) Blast Furnace # 2: Implementation of Preventive Maintenance for the Dust Removal System
the Electric and Blast Furnaces and Sintering Plants and     (at the loading zone) and implementation of operating procedures; (2) Steel Works-ACO2: 90% of air
Installation of Door Cleaning System in the Coke Ovens       emissions are under control and implementation of additional control measures; (3) Steel Works-ACO1:
                                                             Dust Removal system at the pig-iron loading and converter system has been operational since 1994
                                                             and rehabilitation of Dust Removal System at the pig-iron unloading zone; testing in progress
                                                             (3) Coke Ovens: assembly and installation of 80% of doors (door cleaning system)
                                                             Dust content is at lees than 50mg/Nm3 (blast furnace & Steelworks), Particulate load is less than
                                                             50mg/Nm3 and 0.15 Kg/ton of coke output. Duration of visible smoke emissions is less than 55
                                                             cumulative seconds per consecutive loads (coke oven)
Installation of Ammonia Distillation and Incineration System (1) Draining and cleanup of site basins / civil works control procedure: completion of assembly
                                                             and system testing; launching of activities related to ammonia distillation and incineration of ammonia emission
                                                             Nitrogen Oxide is less than 6Kg/ton of coke output; Ammonia is les than 50mg/Nm3 (nitrogen);
                                                             Benzene is than 0.1 Kg/ton of coke output & 5mg/Nm3. Organic Compounds are less 0.3 kg/ton
                                                             of coke output & 20 mg/Nm3.
Installation of WWTP at the Rolling-Mill Sites
                                                             (1) Hot Rolling-Mill (LAC): Rehabilitation of silting basin filter including rehabilitation of civil works.
                                                             In addition, construction and assembly of all components: Delivery of Oil Removal system for circuit
                                                             II & III and installation is in progress; (2) Cold Rolling-Mill (LAF): Rehabilitation of Oil treatment Unit
                                                             - System testing ongoing. Suspended Solids are less than 30mg/L; Oils are less 20 mg/L; Iron load is
                                                             less 5 mg/L; PH is at 5.5 - 8.5
Solid Waste Management                                       Implementation of solid waste reduction and recycling processes; 24.79 Kg/tone of by-products
                                                             are being recycled within the plant; these include laminar rust, steelworks sludge, gas dusts and
                                                             coking smalls.
                                                             Preparation and launching of a Steelwork Slags treatment project
                                                             Implementation of an awareness campaign on the importance/usefulness of solid waste screening
                                                             Incinerator Rehabilitation Project: Rehabilitation work has been completed, testing is in progress
                                                             and training has been provided. Implementation of PCB-based waste legislation
                                                             Disposal/destocking of hazardous waste from LAF and LAC




                                                                      - 16 -

    Table 4: Industrial Pollution Control Project -Training of Environmental Management Professionals



                                   Specialization                                   Number of Staff
                                                                                      Trained
Air Emissions Control Operation and Maintenance of Pollution Control Facilities         47
Management of Industrial Solid Waste                                                    52
Management of Hospital and health care Waste                                            35
Environmental Impact Assessments                                                        34
Environmental Management for Business and Private Sector                                27
Environmental Taxation Implementation Measures for Taxation                             30
Environmental Audits                                                                    26
Recycling of Industrial Solid Waste                                                     40
Control and Monitoring of Industrial Wastewater Operation and Maintenance of WWTP       16
Awareness Campaigns for Air Quality Monitoring and Industrial Pollution Abatement       22
Management, Operation and Maintenance of Air Quality Monitoring Networks                17
Upgrading Standards and Strengthening of Environmental Regulation                       17
                                                             Total of Staff Trained     363




                                                   - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                         Table 1: Estimated Cost as per SAR (in US$ Million - 1995)

                               Components                       Total  Foreign Local IBRD      Govt.
         A: Strengthening the Institutional and Legal
         Framework
         1- Institutional strengthening                         10.50   8.41    2.09  8.74      1.76
         2- Legal strengthening                                  0.35   0.24    0.11  0.35      0.00
         3- Monitoring & Enforcement                             0.81   0.65    0.16  0.81      0.00
         4- National Environment Fund                            0.60   0.33    0.27  0.60      0.00

                                                Sub-Total A     12.26   9.63    2.63 10.50      1.76
         B: Pilot Investments
         1- ASMIDAL                                             59.08   52.34   6.74 35.00     24.08
         2- ENSIDER                                             46.76   33.31  13.45 32.50     14.26

                                                Sub-Total B     105.84  85.65  20.19 67.50     38.34

                            Total Project Costs                 118.10  95.28  22.82 78.00    40.04(*)
      (*) US$0.06 million discrepancy due to rounding


                      Table 2: Actual Project Costs (in current US$ Million)

                             Components                          Bank financed   Country financed     Total
         A1: Strengthening the Institutional and Legal                     8.94               --(*)        ---
         Framework
         A2: Hazardous Waste Management Facility
                                                 Goods                3.82+0.44
                                                  Works                        0
                                                     TA                4.47+0.21
         B: Pilot Investments
         1- ASMIDAL                                                        11.24              9.50     20.75
                                                 Goods                9.68+0.30
                                                     TA                    1.26
          2- ENSIDER                                                       3.32               3.50       6.72
                                                 Goods                 1.56+0.1
                                                     TA               1.54+0.12
         Total Project Costs                                              22.34               13.0         ---




                                                     - 18 -

        Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

        Table 1: Costs and Benefits Analysis (in US$ million)

                                                     1995   1996 1997  1998    1999   2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013
                        Benefits
 public health benefits
                                             direct  1.41   2.66  3.75  4.76   5.10   5.55   6.62  7.47  7.97  8.22  8.48  8.74  9.02  9.29  9.58  9.87  10.1  10.4  10.79
                                           indirect  0.22   0.49  0.76  1.01   1.27   1.73   2.09  2.47  2.62  2.73  2.84  2.96  3.09  3.22  3.35  3.49  3.63  3.78   3.94
 private benefits
 Benefits accrued to ASMIDAL (saved fertilizer)         0      0     0     0      0      0      0     0  7.94  8.16  8.37  8.58  8.80  9.01  9.22  9.43  9.65  9.86  10.07
Benefits accrued to groups (fishermen)                    0    0     0    1.74   1.79 1.80   1.87  1.92  1.97  2.03  2.08  2.13  2.19  2.24  2.29  2.35  2.40  2.45   2.50
 Benefits to real estate owners                      50.9   39.9  33.6  28.7   21.4   15.3   11.4  7.25  3.77  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00
  Total Benefits                                     52.5   43.1  38.1  36.2   29.5   24.4   21.9  19.1  24.2  21.1  21.7  22.4  23.0  23.7  24.4  25.1  25.8  26.5  27.31
 Discounted total benefits                           52.5   40.6  33.9  30.4   23.4   18.2   15.4  12.7  15.2  12.5  12.1  11.8  11.4  11.1  10.8  10.4  10.1  9.87   9.57
 Discounted public health benefits                   1.62   2.97  4.01  4.84   5.05   5.44   6.14  6.61  6.65  6.48  6.32  6.17  6.02  5.87  5.72  5.57  5.43  5.30   5.16
 Cumulative Discounted total benefits                52.5   93.2  127   157     181    199   214   227   242   255   267   279   290   301   312   323   333   343    352
 Cumulative Discounted public health benefits        1.62   4.59  8.60  13.4   18.4   23.9   30.0  36.6  43.3  49.8  56.1  62.3  68.3  74.1  79.9  85.4  90.9  96.2  101.3
                         Costs
 Cost of the project (WorldBank financed)            0.00   0.00  0.00  0.60   2.74   4.85   4.08  4.70  5.49  2.59  5.07  0.94  0.79  0.63  0.47  0.32  0.16  0.01   0.00
 Cost to MATE                                        0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.10  0.10  0.10  0.10  0.38  0.38  0.38  0.38  0.38  0.38  0.38   0.38
 Cost to ASMIDAL                                     0.00   0.00  0.00  0.05   0.10   0.20   0.30 10.00 10.00  5.00  3.00  1.84  1.84  1.84  1.84  1.84  1.84  1.84   1.84
Cost to SIDER                                          0.00 0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.05   0.05  0.05  0.05  0.05  0.05  4.00  4.00  4.00  4.00  4.00  1.13  1.13   1.13
 Total Costs                                         0.00   0.00  0.00  0.65   2.84   5.10   4.43  14.8  15.6  7.74  8.22  7.16  7.00  6.85  6.69  6.54  3.51  3.35   3.34
 Discounted total costs                              0.00   0.00  0.00  0.54   2.25   3.81   3.12  9.87  9.81  4.58  4.59  3.77  3.48  3.21  2.96  2.73  1.38  1.24   1.17
 Cumulative Discounted total costs                   0.00   0.00  0.00  0.54   2.80   6.61   9.73  19.6  29.4  33.9  38.5  42.3  45.8  49.0  52.0  54.7  56.1  57.3  58.53
 Total Net Benefit                                   52.5   43.1  38.1  35.6   26.7   19.3   17.5  4.26  8.64  13.4  13.5  15.2  16.0  16.9  17.7  18.6  22.3  23.2  23.97
 Discounted Total Net Benefit                        52.5   40.6  33.9  29.8   21.1   14.4   12.3  2.84  5.42  7.93  7.57  8.04  7.99  7.93  7.85  7.76  8.80  8.62   8.40
 Cumulative Discounted Net Benefit                   52.5   93.2  127   157     178    192   205   207   213   221   228   236   244   252   260   268   277   285    294




                                                                                          - 19 -

                                            Table 2: Costs and Benefits Analysis (continued)



                                               Discount rate:   6.00%      10.00%       15.00%
 Present value of total benefits                                 353         287          235
Present value of public health benefits                          101           72           50
 Present value of costs                                          59           42          28
 Discounted Net Benefit                                          294         246          207
 Discounted Net Benefit (counting only Public Health benefit)    43           31          22
 Benefit to Cost Ratio                                           6.0          6.9         8.4
 Benefit to cost Ratio (counting only public health benefits)    1.7          1.7         1.8




                                             Table 3: Air Quality Indicators (1994 and 2002)

                                     Air Pollution 1994                       Air Pollution 2002
                                     PM10              SO2 NOx       PM10           SO2          NOx
Downtown Annaba                       84.7             144 1197 60 (-29.2%)
El Bouni                              173.3            321 3320 77 (-55.6%) 37 (-88.5%) 57 (-98.3%)
Sidi Amar                             71.5             130 ---     70 (-2.1%) 66 (-49.2%)         66




                                               Table 4: Impacts on Respiratory Morbidity



                               Respiratory morbidity 1993          Respiratory morbidity 2000
                           Respiratory illness       Asthma   Respiratory illness     Asthma
 National Average                     36                0.8             --                   --
 Wilaya of Annaba                      --               1.7             --                   --
 Downtown Annaba                      42.5              3.8        32 (-24.7%)        2.06 (-45.8%)
 El Bouni                              --               7.8             22             1.3 (-83.3%)
 Sidi Amar                             --               6.3             --             1.4 (-77.8%)




                                                                        - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              May 1995                 5    Mission Leader (1); Senior
                                            Environmental Spec (1);
                                            Environmental Economist
                                            (1); Environmental
                                            Specialist (1); Financial
                                            Specialist


 Supervision
              07/03/1997               3    Mission Leader                         S              HS
                                            Environmental Economist
                                            (1)
                                            Financial Specialist
              04/08/1998               3    Mission Leader                         S               S
                                            Environmental Economist (1)
                                            Financial Specialist
              11/28/1998               3    Mission Leader                         U               S
                                            Environmental Economist (1)
                                            Procurement Specialist
              06/16/1999               4    Mission Leader                         U               S
                                            Environmental Economist (1)
                                            Procurement Specialist
                                            Financial Specialist
              10/10/2000               5    Mission Leader-                        U               S
                                            Environmental Specialist (1)
                                            Environmental Economist (1)
                                            Fertilizer Industry Consultant (1)
                                            Steel Industry Consultant (1)
              12/15/2000               1    Mission Leader- Regional               U               S
                                            Environment Coordinator(1)
              05/20/2001               2    Mission Leader-Lead                    U               S
                                            Environmental Specialist (1)
                                             Sector Manager-MNSRE
              10/20/2001               6    Mission Leader-                        U               S
              MTR                           Environmental Specialist (1)
                                            Environmental Economist (1)
                                            Procurement Specialist (1)
                                            Fertilizers Industry Spec (1)
                                            Steel Industry Spec (1)
              05/14/2002               1    Mission Leader ­ Senior                S               S
                                            Environmental Specialist (1)
              12/02/2002               4    Mission leader ­ Senior                S               S
                                            Environmental Specialist (1)
                                            Regional Env Coordinator (1)
                                            Procurement Analyst (1)



                                             - 21 -

                                            Mission leader ­ Senior
               05/03/2003              5    Environmental Specialist (1)       S    S
                                            Regional Environmental
                                            Coordinator (1)
                                            Senior Procurement Spec (1)
                                            Cons. in Solid Waste Mgmt (2)
               10/30/2003              2    Environmental Specialist (1)       S    S
                                            Regional Environmental
                                            Coordinator (1)
               06/22/2004              3    Mission leader ­ Senior            S    S
                                            Environmental Specialist (1)
                                            Regional Env Coordinator (1)
               11/30/2004              3    Mission leader ­ Senior            S    S
                                            Environmental Specialist (1)
                                            Regional Environmental
                                            Coordinator (1)
                                            Procurement Analyst

 ICR
               06/06/2005             3     Mission leader ­ Senior            S    S
                                            Environmental Specialist
                                            (1)
                                            Regional Environmental
                                            Coordinator (1)
                                            Consultant-Economist (1)

Source: SAP (October 2005)

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    --                             --
  Supervision                              93                     694,617.62
  ICR                                       6                      25,000.00
  Total                                    99                     719,617.62




                                            - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

l Mission aide-memoires
l PSR/ISRs
l Cost-Benefit assessment




                                      - 25 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report

         RÉSUMÉ DE LA CONTRIBUTION DE L'EMPRUNTEUR AU RAPPORT
                               D'ACHÈVEMENT (PRÊT 4034-AL)
              PROJET DE CONTRÔLE DE LA POLLUTION INDUSTRIELLE




SYNTHESE

Le projet « Contrôle de la Pollution Industrielle » -CPI- très générique dans sa conception
de base et après adaptation aux besoins réels, a su répondre dans les délais impartis à
l'objectif ambitieux fixé au départ ; parfois même, il est allé au-delà des programmes
prévisionnels pour pouvoir répondre à des besoins et des attentes non programmés mais
dont la réalisation était indispensable à la poursuite du projet.

Il est caractérisé par 5 blocs composés chacun de différents activités.

Suite à l'identification et à l'évaluation des besoins nécessaires pour la mise à niveau
professionnelle et institutionnelle de la gestion des déchets spéciaux et de la protection de
l'environnement, le projet a procédé à des actions prioritaires par le renforcement des capacités
institutionnelles, administratives et juridiques de l'administration et des acteurs dans le domaine de
l'environnement ainsi que par des actions d'anticipation et de précaution environnementale
comme les pré diagnostics environnementaux et l'introduction, de la dimension économique
dans les analyses environnementales.

Dans le cadre de la mise en place d'instruments institutionnels de gestion écologique, le projet a
assuré la formation environnementale dans les domaines des déchets industriels, de l'eau, de l'air,
de l'assainissement et des pollutions à l'intention notamment des cadres du Ministère et de ses
partenaires ainsi que des entreprises. Ces actions ont pu être réalisées grâce à la mise en place du
Centre National des Formations à l'Environnement (CNFE).


En favorisant la création du CNFE, le projet CPI, a su réaliser un cadre et des conditions de
travail optimal pour une formation adéquate dans tous les domaines de l'environnement. Grâce à
son statut « commercial », le CNFE peut garantir une formation adéquate et pérenne à tous les
secteurs concernés et intéressés par l'amélioration des ressources humaines en savoir-faire
environnemental. La structure peut aussi assurer un suivi pédagogique des stagiaires pour
accroître l'efficacité des formations dispensées. Un travail de marketing continu est indéniable

Le Ministère de l'Aménagement du Territoire et de l'Environnement, par le biais du
Conservatoire National de Formation à l'Environnement devrait orienter sa stratégie de formation
en collaboration avec les ministères chargés de l'éducation et de la formation professionnelle vers
des formations diplômantes, formations qualifiantes et formations de formateur. Cette démarche
constitue la base pour l'identification des profils et types de métiers de l'environnement, la mise en



                                                 - 26 -

place de formations et le déploiement progressif des métiers de l'environnement en Algérie.


Par ailleurs, le projet a efficacement contribué à la mise en place d'un système d'information par la
mise oeuvre d'un système d'information au niveau de la DPEI relié à toutes les Directions de
l'environnement au niveau national. Cet acquit donne une assise très solide pour élargir dans les
meilleures conditions ce système.


Un système National de l'Information Environnementale (SNIE) est une nécessité étant donné
que l'ONEDD est une organisation où l'information est capitale. L'efficacité de l'ONEDD
dépendra donc directement de l'efficacité de son « Système d'Information » ; la mise en place
d'un tel système au niveau national est un objectif ambitieux qui requiert des ressources
humaines compétentes ainsi que des moyens matériels et financiers mais et surtout au vu de la
situation dans ce domaine en Algérie une mise en place d'un SNIE efficace et fiable exige du
temps.


En ce qui concerne la mise en oeuvre d'une gestion intégrée pour la réduction de la pollution,
l'ONEDD, avec l'assistance d'une expertise externe, pourrait donner suite aux travaux préparatifs
effectués dans le cadre du projet et procéder immédiatement à son application par un test auprès
des structures industrielles pilotes FERTIAL et ISPAT déjà sensibilisées par le projet pour une
telle action.

Ainsi le CPI a contribué à l'installation des structures appelées à suivre à l'avenir, d'une part, les
instruments de surveillance comme l'auto-contrôle des rejets et l'auto-surveillance des
installations de dépollution et, d'autre part, les instruments techniques de gestion écologiques
comme les CET et l'introduction des technologies plus propres ces deux instruments
institutionnels doivent dans l'avenir fournir les bases techniques d'une réglementation évolutive en
harmonie avec le développement économique et social du pays..

Toutes les activités concernant l'élaboration d'une stratégie et de la mise en place du CNTPP ont
été réussies. Le CNTPP a été créé et repose sur une base juridique et institutionnelle fiable et
durable. Par ailleurs le projet a réalisé avec succès le premier cadastre des déchets spéciaux en
Algérie lequel a permis de concrétiser un Plan National de Gestion des Déchets Spéciaux
(PNAGDES) englobant une stratégie et un plan de mise en oeuvre des infrastructures et de la
logistique nécessaires pour procéder à des actions de dépollution de grande envergure au niveau
national.

Suite à cela un modèle de gestion intégrée pour la réduction de la pollution a été développé
répondant aux besoins complexes d'un tel système. Ce modèle a été discuté avec les représentants
de deux complexes industriels pilotes et a été amélioré en conséquence. La mise en oeuvre
pratique d'un      modèle de dépollution aussi complexe et qui touche à tous les niveaux
­administratif, réglementaire et technique- de la concertation et de l'intégration des efforts de
dépollution requiert un temps qui n'était plus disponible dans sa totalité pour le projet. Cependant
les préparatifs d'une gestion intégrée sont de telle sorte réussies et les unités pilotes sont
sensibilisées qu'il est possible au CNTPP de passer immédiatement au test pratique de ce modèle.



                                                 - 27 -

Finalement un modèle de gestion intégrée, prenant en considération les instruments et expertises
réalisés dans le cadre du projet, a été élaboré. La demande d'autorisation d'exploitation, les
instruments d'amélioration de la dépollution par le biais des Meilleures Techniques Disponibles
(MTD) ainsi que l'utilisation d'un logiciel d'aide à la décision dans le but de la dépollution
(DSS/IPC) sont les éléments clés de cette méthodologie.

Ces éléments du modèle ont été présentés et discutés avec les responsables de l'environnement
des complexes industriels ISPAT et FERTIAL et pourraient être appliqués au niveau de ces deux
structures industrielles lorsque des objectifs de qualité des milieux, réalistes, auront été cooptés
avec l'accord des différents acteurs (collectivité, population et industriels) et les échéanciers ainsi
que les mécanismes de financement de leur mise en oeuvre auront été arrêtés.

Le projet a par ailleurs contribué à l'élaboration des instruments économiques et financiers
de gestion écologique comme le fonds pour l'environnement et la dépollution (FEDEP) et la
fiscalité écologique. Le projet CPI a participé à l'instauration des contrats de performance
environnementale qui est une première démarche vers l'intégration du développement durable
dans la politique des entreprises. Les entreprises signataires des contrats de performance
s'engagent à financer les investissements nécessaires pour la dépollution et sont en contrepartie
accompagnées par les services techniques du MATE et peuvent accéder au FEDEP pour des
actions bien déterminées.


Le projet CPI a réalisé une étude sur la responsabilité environnementale et a préparé, dans le
cadre de la fiscalité, une réglementation en vue de la prévention et de la prise en charge des
dommages environnementaux.

L'étude a porté particulièrement sur les dispositions relatives à la répression administrative, sur les
régimes de responsabilité civile et de responsabilité pénale, y compris les dispositions relatives à
l'assurance ou d'autres garanties financières intervenant en matière de responsabilité
environnementale.

La responsabilité environnementale en tant qu'instrument de politique de l'environnement réunit
et conjugue deux moyens d'actions spécifiques : « (1) le transfert en amont de la responsabilité
(matérielle et/ou économique ; totale ou partielle), de la collectivité vers les producteurs ; et (2) la
création d'incitations en faveur de la prise en compte des aspects environnementaux par les
producteurs dan le cadre de la conception des produits ».

L'étude recommande deux champs d'action prioritaires, à savoir l'adoption des textes
d'application prévus par la loi et le renforcement des prérogatives et des moyens des Directions de
l'environnement de wilaya pour la recherche et la constatation des infractions. Mener à bien les
chantiers de réforme juridique dans ces domaines permettrait, avec un nombre limité de mesures,
d'améliorer de façon significative l'efficacité pratique des dispositifs juridiques relatifs à la
responsabilité environnementale.

La responsabilité élargie des producteurs est reliée à la fiscalité écologique, introduite par les


                                                 - 28 -

différentes lois de finances depuis 2002. Elle accompagne spécifiquement cette dernière au niveau
de produits, de groupes de produits et/ou de flux particuliers de déchets


Le projet a, par ailleurs, participé à l'installation d'une fiscalité écologique pour l'Algérie et de ce
fait à l'instauration des premières taxes écologiques. La fiscalité écologique a un impact de «
réforme » budgétaire permettant de mieux répartir le poids de la dépense environnementale entre,
d'une part, les contribuables et, d'autre part, ceux qui sont à l'origine d'une dégradation de
l'environnement.

Les catégories suivantes de taxes concernant l'industrie ont été consolidées, élargies ou instituées
à la faveur de la Loi de finances pour 2002:


Taxe forfaitaire affectée :              Taxe sur les activités polluantes ou dangereuses pour
l'environnement.


Taxes écologiques d'orientation :       Taxe d'incitation au « destockage » des déchets industriels,
taxe d'incitation sur les déchets liés aux activités de soins, taxe complémentaire sur la pollution
atmosphérique d'origine industrielle.


Compte tenu des coûts des dommages portés à l'environnement (environ 6% du PIB sans
l'environnement global) et des coûts de remédiation pressentis (quelque 3% du PIB), les actions
de court et moyen terme, les investissements décennaux comme les mesures institutionnelles vont
exercer un fort impact sur le budget de l'État. En particulier, les investissements vont non
seulement tendre à alourdir la dépense publique de protection de l'environnement au démarrage
des programmes, mais vont également impliquer des engagements pluriannuels pour la
maintenance et le renouvellement des équipements.

Pourtant, ces augmentations de la dépense en faveur de l'environnement ne signifient pas que la
dépense publique algérienne doive augmenter d'autant dans la mesure où c'est précisément le rôle
de la fiscalité écologique que d'offrir un relais à la dépense publique en permettant de rapprocher
la dépense de celui qui en est à l'origine, d'où le principe du pollueur ­ payeur.

Dans le cadre de la privatisation des entreprises, ni l'évaluation du coût de la pollution
industrielle, ni celle des coûts de remédiation ne font partie de l'évaluation de leur actif net.
L'évaluation financière de base d'une installation doit par conséquent être complétée d'une
évaluation économico-écologique des coûts liés à une remédiation environnementale.

Il s'agit d'inscrire ce passif environnemental dans l'établissement de l'actif patrimonial net des
entreprises industrielles concurrentielles de manière à consolider ce dernier au sens d'un actif qui
soit épuré d'un point de vue à la fois financier, économico-social et écologique.

L'étude conduite par le projet a permis d'établir la procédure de prise en compte du passif
environnemental des entreprises industrielles algérienne dans la procédure nationale de
privatisation. Le processus de privatisation est tout d'abord présenté ensemble avec la question
environnementale. Puis la procédure de saisie du passif environnemental d'une unité industrielle



                                                   - 29 -

ou d'un secteur est développée par étapes jusqu'à l'inscription d'une part environnementale dans
l'affectation du produit de cession. La méthodologie permettant d'apprécier le passif
environnemental à prendre en compte est connue du fait qu'elle a déjà été appliquée dans le
secteur du ciment en Algérie.

Le « service » de ce type d'évaluation pourrait être confié au FEDEP au niveau de son comité des
risques écologiques industriels


L'article 189 de la loi des finances pour 1992, modifié et complété par l'article 30 de la loi des
finances complémentaire pour 2001 avait créé le compte d'affectation spéciale n° 302-065, intitulé
« Fonds National pour l'Environnement et la Dépollution » (par abréviation FEDEP) pour
développer des démarches permettant de soutenir les actions de dépollution et réduire les
pressions exercées sur le milieu naturel.

L'objectif du Fonds consiste, à travers des mesures incitatives, à encourager les industriels à
investir dans la dépollution. Le concours du Fonds est ouvert aux projets de dépollution sur la
base de critères d'éligibilité clairement établis. Cette approche vise particulièrement à encourager
l'acquisition de technologies de production plus propre.

La gestion technique des projets de dépollution et de protection de l'environnement a nécessité
des réaménagements juridiques qui portent aussi bien sur des modifications de dispositions à
caractère législatif ou réglementaire que sur la mise en place d'instrument adapté aux procédures
de gestion technique et financière.

Dans ce contexte le projet a conduit une étude composée de deux volets essentiels :

Le premier a porté sur l'instrumentation juridique, notamment les dispositions législatives et
réglementaires qui constituent des préalables pour la mise en oeuvre du FEDEP et son
fonctionnement efficient.

Le second volet a trait aux modalités techniques, aux procédures et aux tâches des différents
partenaires qui interviennent, dans le cadre du fonctionnement du FEDEP.

Par ailleurs des expertises ont permis de définir précisément les procédures pour la mise en
oeuvre d'un projet de dépollution ainsi que les critères d'éligibilité au Fonds de dépollution.


PERENNITÉ DES RESULTATS DU PROJET

Le projet a été accompagné de mesures à la fois législatives, institutionnelles et économiques de
nature à approfondir et enraciner les résultats obtenus. Notamment les actions suivantes sont de
nature à garantir la pérennité des résultats du projet.

Actions du Ministère de l'Aménagement du Territoire et de l'Environnement

-       Promulgation d'une nouvelle loi sur la protection de l'environnement dans le cadre du


                                                 - 30 -

développement durable
-       Promulgation d'une nouvelle loi sur la gestion des déchets
-       Promulgation d'une loi sur les risques majeurs où l'aspect risques industriels et
énergétiques est pris en considération
-       Introduction d'instruments économiques à travers différentes lois de finances pour inciter
les acteurs économiques à un comportement plus responsable vis-à-vis de l'environnement
-       Mise en place de réseaux de mesure de la qualité de l'air à Annaba et Alger
-       Mise en place de laboratoires et de station de surveillance des milieux
-       Création d'agences chargées de catalyser le développement d'aspects importants de la
gestion de l'environnement.
-       Préparation et signature avec plusieurs entreprises industrielles de contrats de performance
environnementale

Actions développées par ASMIDAL

-       Financement sur ses propres ressources d'investissements à caractère environnemental (ex
: unité nitrate d'ammonium)
-       Mise en place d'un réseau de mesure des émissions polluantes
-       Mise en place d'une politique de communication relative à ses initiatives
environnementales
-       Mesures préliminaires pour la mise en place d'un système de gestion environnementale
-       Mise en place d'un délégué à l'environnement chargé du suivi de la situation
environnementale du complexe.

Actions développées par SIDER/ISPAT

-       Programmation de ressources financières pour la réalisation d'investissements
environnementaux.
-       Mise en place d'un délégué à l'environnement chargé du suivi de la situation
environnementale du complexe.


ENSEIGNEMENTS TIRÉS

Toutes les activités ont été réalisées. Ces activités ont permis de concrétiser l'objectif assigné

Au delà des résultats physiques le CPI a permis également, par l'apport d'une expertise
internationale de haut rang, permettant aux opérateurs algériens de se mettre au niveau de
l'éco-technologie moderne mise en oeuvre dans les pays avancés


Le projet CPI a permis de cristalliser les efforts du Gouvernement algérien en matière de lutte
contre la pollution industrielle. Ce projet a suscité une prise de conscience de la part des autorités
et la nécessité d'élargir les instruments à même de limiter les nuisances dues à la pollution
industrielle en est la preuve. Ces approches concernent les instruments réglementaires classiques
basés sur la limitation des émissions et leur contrôle, les instruments économiques basés sur des



                                                 - 31 -

taxes   destinés à inciter les générateurs de pollution à modifier leur comportement, et les
instruments basés sur l'engagement volontaire des industriels à modifier leurs pratiques et limiter
ainsi les nuisances qu'ils génèrent.


Cette dynamique est en train de se développer avec l'approfondissement des instruments existants
et de la capacité des pouvoirs publics à faire respecter la réglementation ainsi qu'avec
l'introduction d'autres instruments tels ceux basés sur les mécanismes de marché. L'analyse
Coût Bénéfice de l'impact du projet fait ressortir des résultats physiques exceptionnels.

Les impacts du projet ont été enregistrés : bénéfice économique et écologique du Grand Annaba
L'impact essentiel est illustré par la diminution très sensible de la concentration de dioxyde de
soufre (SO2) dans l'air, notamment au niveau d'El Bouni, (l'investissement au niveau de l'unité
acide nitrique a également contribué à cet effet). De plus, un autre résultat environnemental
important est également dû à cette mesure, à savoir l'arrêt du déversement du phosphogypse issus
de la production de l'acide phosphorique.

L'impact économique du projet dans la région de Annaba peut se résumer à la conclusion que sur
la base de tous les bénéfices (santé publique, ecologiques, financiers à travers l'impact sur la
rentabilité des entreprises concernées et de l'impact sur la valeur du patrimoine foncier), pour
chaque dollar investi, le projet a permis de générer un bénéfice net de près de 6 dollars.
Concernant les bénéfices liés aux coûts évités de santé, chaque dollar investi a permis de faire un
bénéfice net de 1.7 dollars.

Autres bénéfices non monétarisés

Outre les bénéfices identifiés et valorisés ci-dessus, le projet a permis également d'atteindre de
nombreux autres résultats très importants :

·       Amélioration de la situation écologique au niveau de la baie de Annaba (L'augmentation
de la prise de poissons peut être considérée comme une approximation par défaut de ce résultat)
contribuant ainsi à l'augmentation du capital naturel de la région et du pays.
·       Amélioration de la capacité de gestion de la pollution industrielle aux niveaux local et
national, contribuant ainsi à l'augmentation du capital humain de la région et du pays
·       Mise en place d'un réseau automatique de mesure de la qualité de l'air, contribuant ainsi à
l'augmentation du capital matériel et physique de la région et du pays
·       Bénéfices économiques du fait de l'augmentation de la valeur (goodwill) des entreprises
concernées du fait de leur engagement environnemental, contribuant ainsi à l'augmentation du
capital financier de la région et du pays.
·       Amélioration de la confiance entre la population et l'Etat du fait de la prise en charge
effective d'un problème qui affectait la santé de la population, contribuant ainsi à l'augmentation
du capital social au niveau de la région et du pays.




                                                 - 32 -

                    2°                                          0°                                        2°                                                         4°                                       6°                                                 8°


                                                          ALGERIA                                                                                                   M e d i t e r r a n e a n           S e a                                                Annaba

                INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                    Skikda
                                                                                                                                           16                                                           Jijel                                        23               El Tarf
                                                                                                                                        ALGIERSBoumerdes
                                                                                                                                                       35                Tizi                                                              21
                                                                                                                                                                                            Bejaia
                                                                                                                                                                        Ouzou
                                                                                                                       Tipaza                                                                                18                                                     36
                                                                                                                                                                     15                6                        Mila                        Guelma                             To Tunis

                                                                                                             42                      Blida  9                                                                                  Constantine
                                                                                                                                                           Bouira                                              43                                                   Souk
                                                                                                     Aïn Defla                                                                                                                                   24
                                                                                                                         Medea                                                                                                      25
                                                                                            Chlef                                                                                                  Setif                                                           Ahras
                                                                                         2                                                                           10           34                                                                              41               36°

             36°                                                                                           44                          26                                           Bordj Bou

                                                       Mostaganem   27                                                                                                              Arreridj       19                              4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ouem El
                                            Oran                                                                                                                                                                                        Bouaghi
                                                                               48
                                         31                              Relizane                    38
                                                                                                        Tissemsilt

                            Ain                                    29                                                                                                         28                           5                         Khenchela                   Tebessa
                            Temouchent  46                  Mascara                  Tiaret
                                          Sidi Bel
                                          Abbes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ToThelepte


                                                                                                 14                                                                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Biskra                                  40
              To Oujda            Tlemcen                           Saida                                                                     17

                             13                                     20                                                                             Djelfa                                        7
                                                  22



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   34°
             34°
                                          45                                  32                                3                                                                                                   39

                                                                                     El Bayadh                                          Laghouat
                                                  To Aïn Sefra
                  2°                                            0°                                         2°            To Ghardaia                                   4°                                          To Touggourt          To El Oued                      8°


                                          WILAYA NAMES                                                                                                                                                                             5°               0°         Sea  5°


                  1 ADRAR                      32 EL BAYADH             30 OUARGLA                                PROJECT LOCATIONS FOR                                               PAVED NATIONAL ROAD                    35°                Mediterranean
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ALGIERS                35°

                 44 AIN DEFLA                  39 EL OUED                4 OUM EL BOUAGHI                         POLLUTION CONTROL
                                                                                                                                                                                      AIRPORTS
                 46 AIN TEMOUCHENT             36 EL TARF               48 RELIZANE                                                                                                                                                                     Area of Map
                                                                                                                  HAZARDOUS WASTE COLLECTION
                 16 ALGIERS                    47 GHARDAIA              20 SAIDA                                                                                                      WILAYA HEADQUARTERS                                       Naama         Ghardaia

                 23 ANNABA                     24 GUELMA                19 SETIF                                  HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT FACILITY                                                                                                   32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bechar              Ouargla
                  5 BATNA                      33 ILLIZI                22 SIDI BEL ABBES                         CORRESPONDING TO COMPONENT A-2                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                      47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             30°                                   30              30°
                  8 BECHAR                     18 JIJEL                 21 SKIKDA                                 OF THE PROJECT                                                                                                            8
                                                                                                                                                                                      WILAYA BOUNDARIES                                           A L G E R I A
                  6 BEJAIA                     40 KHENCHELA             41 SOUK AHRAS                             INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                                                                     Tindouf        Adrar
                  7 BISKRA                      3 LAGHOUAT              11 TAMANGHASSET                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To         37                                 33
                  9 BLIDA                      29 MASCARA               12 TEBESSA                                PORTS                                                                                                       ElAaiu            1
DECEMBER                                                                                                                                                                                                                            n                           11        Illizi                IBRD
                 34 BORDJ BOU ARRERIDJ         26 MEDEA                 14 TIARET                                                                                                                                            25°                                                   25°

                 10 BOUIRA                     43 MILA                  37 TINDOUF
                                                                                                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                 Tamanghasset
                 35 BOUMERDES                  27 MOSTAGANEM            42 TIPAZA                                                                                                                                                                                                                   27060R
                                                                                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information           0        50         100         150
                  2 CHLEF                      28 MSILA                 38 TISSEMSILT               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                              To Gao
        2005     25 CONSTANTINE                45 NAAMA                 15 TIZI OUZOU               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                         KILOMETERS                          20°                                                   20°
                 17 DJELFA                     31 ORAN                  13 TLEMCEN                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5°               0°                To Agadez

                                                                          7°                                                                                         8°

                                        NORTHEASTERN ALGERIA
                            INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
                                               PROJECT LOCATIONS                                                            Mediterranean Sea

                                                                                                Chetaïbi
             37°               Collo                                                                                                                                                37°




                                                                    Skikda                                             Seraidi
                                                                        ENIP                                                                      Annaba
                                                                                                                                                   ASMIDAL
                                 Tamalous                                                            Berrahat               El Bouni
                                                                                                                         Sidi Amar
                 El Milia                                                                                              ENSIDER
                                                                                                            A N N A B A                   El Hadjar          Ben Mehidi
                                                                         Azzaba

             J I J E L                                S K I K D A

                                                   El Arrouch            Es Sebt                                                              Dréan

                                                                                                              Aïn Berda                                     E L TA R F

                      Orarem

            M I L A                                                                                                    Bouchegouf
                    Mila  C O N S TA N T I N E                                                         Guelma

                                             Constantine                                            G U E L M A
                                                                           Oued Zenati                                                                             S O U K
                                                   El Khroub                                     0   5   10   15  20  25                      Souk-Ahras         A H R A S
                                                             Aïn Abid                                   KILOMETERS
                                                                        7°                                                                                          8°


                                                                                                                                                           5°                 Sea5°

                                                                                                                                                        35°    Mediter
                                                                                                                                                                    0°ranean

                           Annaba                                                                                                                                                     35°
                                 PROJECT LOCATIONS FOR                             PAVED NATIONAL ROAD                                                                 ALGIERSArea
                                 POLLUTION CONTROL                                                                                                                              of
                                                                                   AIRPORTS                                                                                    Map

                                 ENTERPRISES POLLUTION                                                                       The boundaries, colors,
                                 ABATEMENT INVESTMENT                              SELECTED TOWNS                            denominations and any      30°                           30°
                                                                                                                             other information shown             A L G E R I A
DECEMBER2005                     HAZARDOUS DISPOSAL AND STORAGE                    WILAYA HEADQUARTERS                       on this map do not
                                                                                                                             imply, on the part of
                                 VILLAGES EXPOSED TO                               WILAYA BOUNDARIES                         The World Bank Group,
                                                                                                                                                        25°                           25°
                                 INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION                                                                        any judgment on the legal                                   IBRD
                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                  status of any territory,
                                 VILLAGES NOT EXPOSED TO                                                                     or any endorsement

                                 INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION                                                                        or acceptance of such
                                                                                                                             boundaries.                20°5°       0°                20°    27061

