Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14495-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
MAY 13, 1996
Private Sector Development, Finance and Infrastructure Operations Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY
Currency Unit: Algerian Dinar (DA) = 100 Centimes
(As of January 1996)
US $ 1.00              DA 53.70
DA 1.00         =      US $ 0.0186
t/y    :    tons/year                     m3      :       meter cubes
I     :    liter                          mg      :      milligram
p.g     :      microgram
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ASMIDAL:          Entreprise Nationale des Engrais et Produits Phytosanitaires
BAD        :     Banque Algerienne de Developpement
BOD        :     Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CNP        :      Conseil National de la Planification
DGE        :      Direction Generale de l'Environnement (General Directorate of the
Environment)
EA         :     Environmental Assessment
ENIP       :      Entreprise Nationale des Industries Petrochimiques
ENSIDER   :      Entreprise Nationale de Siderurgie
EPE        :      Entreprise Publique Economique
ERL        :      Economic Rehabilitation Loan
FDEPE      :     Fonds de Depollution et de Protection de l'Environnement
HCEDD    :       Haut Conseil de l'Environnement et du Developpement Durable (High
Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development)
IEW        :      Inspectorats de l'Environnement de Wilaya (Wilaya Environment
Inspectorates)
METAP    :       Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program
MICLE      :      Ministere de l'lnterieur, des Collectivites Locales, et de l'Environnement
MIR        :     Ministry of Industry and Restructuring
MAP        :      Mono-Ammonium Phosphate
MOH               Ministry of Health
NEAP       :     National Environment Action Plan
NEF        :      National Environmental Fund
NGO               Non Governmental Organizations
NOx        :      Nitrogen Oxides
NPK        :     Nitrogen-Phosphate-Potassium
PAH        :      Polyaromatic Hydrocarbons
PE         :      Public Enterprise
PHRD       :      Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIP        :      Project Implementation Plan
PIU        :     Project Implementation Unit
SGG        :      Secretariat General of the Government
SO2        :      Sulfur Dioxide
TSP        :      Total Suspended Particles
VOC        :     Volatile Organic Hydrocarbons
WHO        :      World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................... i-iv
I. BACKGROUND .....1... 
A.  Geographic and Economic Context ........  2
B.     Main Problems Affecting the Environment ........    I
C.  Rationale for Bank Involvement ........   6
H. THE PROJECT..                                                                                   8
A.  Project Design Altematives.                                                             8
B. Project Objectives.                                                                      8
C.  Detailed Project Description.                                                           8
D. Project Costs .10
E. Financing Arrangements .11
I3. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION   .                                  .12
A. Project Implementation .12
B. Procurement .13
C. Disbursement .15
D. Reports .17
E. Accounts and Audits .17
F. Supervision .17
G. Environmental Impact .18
H. Sustainability .18
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION                         ..19
A. General .19
B.     Internalization of the Pollution Abatement Cost .19
C. Least-cost Solutions .20
D.    Project Benefits ................................................. 20
E.     Economic Evaluation   ................................ 20
F.     Social Impacts ................................  21
V. THE GOVERNMENT'S PARALLEL PROGRAM IN SKIKDA .22
VI. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS .22
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .23
| This report is based on the results of an appraisal mission in May 1995 and was prepared by Messrs. Sherif Arif (Task Manager), Charles Sterling,
Hans-Roland Lindgren, and Aziz Bouzaher; and edited by Ms. Michele Detwiler. Mme. Eugenia Marinova, Engy Naguib and Josephine Salang
provided invaluable assistance in the preparation of the report. Peer reviewers are Messrs. Anders Haildin (EC4NR) and John Dixon (ENVPE).
Mr. A. Amir Al-Khafaji (EMIPI) is the Division Chief; Mr. Daniel Ritchie (MNIDR) is the Country Director and Mr. Kemal DerviS (MNAVP) is
the MNA Vice President.



Industrial Pollution Control Project
Page No.
TABLES
Table 2.1:    Project Cost Summary ....................................1........ I 
Table 2.2:    Project Financing Plan ................  12
Table 3.1:    Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements .......... ............... 14
Table 3.2:    Disbursement Plan ................  16
Table 3.3:    Disbursement Schedule ................  17
ANNEXES
Annex 1:     Assessment of the Environmental Situation in Annaba
Annex 2:     Policy Letter
Annex 3:     Description of the First Project Component
Annex 4:     Detailed Project Costs Estimates
Annex 5:     Key Peformance Indicators
Annex 6:     Implementation Plan
Annex 7:     Financial Viability and Internalization of Costs
Annex 8:     Health Cost-Benefit Analysis
MAPS
IBRD 27060
IBRD 27061



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower                           Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Implementing Agencies              Direction Generale de l'Environnement (DGE)
Entreprise Nationale de Siderurgie (ENSIDER)
Entreprise Nationale des Engrais et Produits Phytosanitaires
(ASMIDAL)
Beneficiaries                      Sector ministries, wilaya environment inspectorates, local
government, NGOs, and private and public consulting and
industrial firms
Loan Amount                        US$78 million equivalent
Terms                               17 years, including 5 years of grace at the standard variable
interest rate
Commitment Fee                     0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver
On-lending Terms:                  The Govemment of Algeria (GOA) would on-lend to ENSIDER
and ASMIDAL a total amount of US$67.5 million equivalent
for up to 10 years including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate. ENSIDER and ASMIDAL would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Objective                          The bro4d objective of the project is to assist the Borrower in
reducing pollution which causes health problems or serious
ecological 'degradation. Its specific objectives are to:
(a) strengthen the institutional and legal framework; and
(b) initiate a pilot investment program to mitigate pollution in
the industrial sector of Annaba, situated in the northeastern
region of Annaba.
Project Description                Strengthening the Institutional and Legal Framework Component
(11 percent of project baseline cost) would consist of the
following sub-components:
(a) Institution Building;



Industrial Pollution Control Project
(b) Enhancing the Legal and Regulatory Framework;
(c) Designing and Implementing a Monitoring and Enforcement
System; and
(d) Activating the National Environmental Fund.
The Pilot Investments Component (89 percent of project
baseline costs would be limited to the:
(a)   Iron and Steel Complex of ENSIDER and would include
the reduction of air emissions and treatment and reuse of
industrial wastewaters; and
(b)   Fertilizer Complex of ASMIDAL and would include the
reduction of air emissions and industrial discharges, and
the closure of the sulfuric and phosphoric acid plants.
Benefits                           The main benefits of this project are reduced environmental
degradation and decreased negative public health impact as a
result of reduced hazardous emissions to air and water, and
leakages from wastes. The institutional and legal component
would strengthen the national and local capabilities in the
design, monitoring, and enforcement of appropriate policies and
regulations. The pilot investments component would contribute
substantially to the reduction of hazardous emissions and waste
in the northeastern region of Annaba, and improve industrial
efficiency through the use of cleaner technology and waste
minimization.
Risks                              Restoration of peace in the country would expedite project
implementation and enhance Bank supervision. Additional risks
are: (a) the institutional complexity of the project; the
establishment of a project implementation unit and steering
committee and agreement on functions and responsibilities
among the different agencies would overcome this risk; and
(b) the identified enterprises may not undertake all the pollution
abatement measures; the signing of the environmental
conventions and the strengthening of the enforcement entities
would reduce this risk.



Industrial Pollution Control Project                                                         iii
Estimated Cost
Locall    Foreignl       Total
-. ---(US$ Million) -
A. Strengthening the
Institutional and Legal
Framework
1. Institutional Building           1.79        7.70         9.49
112. Legal Framework                 0.11        0.20         0.31
3. Monitoring and Enforcement       0.11        0.61         0.72
4. National Environmental Fund      0.23        0.31         0.54
Sub-total A                    2.24         8.82       11.06
B. Pilot Investments
1. ASMIDAL                         6.92        46.59       53.51
2. ENSIDER                         10.06       28.62        38.68
Sub-total B                    16.98        75.21       92.19
Total Baseline Costs               19.22        84.03      103.25
Physical Contingencies              1.69        7.48         9.17
Price Contingencies                 1.91        3.77         5.68
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                22.82       95.28       118.10
Financing Plan
Local I   Foreignl    Totalr'
U------------(US$ million)-----------
Bank              3.98      74.02       78.00
GOA                1.76                  1.76
Enterprises       17.08     21.26       38.34
Total            22.82      95.28      118.10
a/ The project cost is exclusive of taxes mand duties.
Estimated Disbursements
Bank Group Fiscal Year
------------------------------(US$ million)--------------------------
1997   1998  1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004
Annual                 1.5    6.0  12.8   18.7   12.5   15.6    7.8    3.1
Cumulative             1.5    7.5  20.3   39.0   51.5   67.1   74.9   78.0



iv                                                            Industrial Pollution Control Project
Economic Rate of Return           Pilot Investments (49 percent for ENSIDER and 29 percent for
ASMIDAL)
Poverty Category                  Not Applicable
Environmental Rating              "BP'
Project Identification No.        4960
Maps                              IBRD 27060 and 27061



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
L BACKGROUND
A. Geographic and Economic Context
1.1    Algeria has 2.4 million square kilometers of territory, a population of 27.5 million growing at an
average rate of 2.6 percent per annum, and a per capita GNP of US$1,650 (1993). It has abundant
mineral resources, including oil and gas reserves and mining resources, but arable land representing only
3 percent of its total surface. From independence in 1962 until the mid-1980s, the country followed a
socialist model, emphasizing centralized planning, and directed large investments towards health and
education, heavy industries (iron and steel, cement, fertilizers, and refineries), collectivization of land, and
large infrastructure projects. These investments were accompanied by large-scale subsidies to public
services, basic food products, water, energy, and agrochemicals. This development strategy discouraged
conservation and increased inefficiency in resource allocation. The combination of environmental neglect
and misuse have degraded natural resources and brought about serious deterioration of soil, water, and air
quality. Moreover, the Government of Algeria (GOA) officially stated at the 1972 Stockholm Conference
on Environment that it would not sacrifice development for environmental protection that it planned to
accelerate economic development.
1.2    After the sharp drop in oil prices in 1986, resulting in a 50 percent decline in the country's terms
of trade, Algeria's GDP per capita decline by about 3 percent a year, unemployment soared from 17
percent in 1986 to 25 percent in 1994, and external debt reached 68 percent of GDP over the same period.
In 1987, the Government initiated adjustment through a broad program of economic reforms, including
the beginnings of land privatization, price liberalization, and reform of public enterprises (PEs) through
the establishment of holding companies (Fonds de Participation) and transformation of a large number of
PEs into autonomous Economic Public Enterprises (EPEs). However, in 1992, because of the political
crisis, the Government backtracked on its program of reforns, resulting in a widening of the budget deficit
(8.7 percent of GDP by 1993), a fall in private investment (by 40 percent), and severe macroeconomic
imbalances. In 1994, a wide-ranging stabilization program was initiated with the support of: (i) two IMF
facilities (US$2.8 billion by May 1995), (ii) a World Bank Economic Rehabilitation Loan (US$150 million
in January 1995), (iii) two Paris Club rescheduling agreements (more than US$7 billion by July 1995),
and (iv) a recent World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan (US$300 million in April 1996). Already,
Algeria is considered to have succeeded on the stabilization front,' and is deepening its structural reform
program through: the elimination of non-tariff trade and payment restrictions; price liberalization and the
drastic reduction of subsidies; the removal of ceilings on bank lending rates; and the imposition of tight
budget constraints on non-autonomous PEs. At the heart of the Government strategy to transform the
economy are two key programs: (i) the reorganization of the large PE sector (about 400 enterprises) into
holding companies with a view to improving financial discipline and preparing it for privatization, and
(ii) a large-scale privatization program for small and medium enterprises (about 1,300 enterprises).
I/    See "Country Assistance Strategy" for Algeria, World Bank Report No. 15316-AL.



2                                                                  Industrial Pollution Control Project
B. Main Problems Affecting the Environment2
1.3    Natural Resources Management. The major issues regarding natural resources management are:
(a) decreased water availability for urban, industrial, and agricultural use; (b) soil degradation due to
erosion, salinization, desertification, or a combination of these; (c) deforestation; and (d) loss of fauna and
flora. A summary of the environmental issues in Algeria is provided in the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP).
1.4    Pollution. Industry accounts for a major part of the total pollution in the country. The main
polluting industries are the petrochemical industries, chemical industries, ore processing, and metallurgy.
The largest concentration of industries is found in the coastal belt of the country, which makes up only
1.7 percent of the total area; it is also where the majority of the population resides. Most of the polluting
industries are concentrated in and around the major urban centers of Algiers, Oran, Constantine, and
Annaba. Since the largest share of industrial growth occurred during the 1960s and 1970s, the capital
stock is old and highly polluting. Most enterprises do not have any pollution control technology and the
few enterprises that have air emission or water treatment equipment do not keep it properly maintained
and lack an adequate supply of spare parts, impeding the performance of these treatment facilities. The
major environmental impacts are: (a) water pollution from municipal and industrial wastewater discharges;
(b) air pollution from d'.sts: total suspended particles (TSP), sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (NOx),
volatile organic hydracarbons (VOC), and heavy metal vapors; and (c) industrial wastes.
1.5    Pollution Situation in Northeastern Algeria. An overview of the industrial pollution situation
undertaken by the Government, with Bank assistance, and an assessment of hazardous wastes undertaken
by the Government with financing from the Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program
(METAP), indicated that pollution from public sector industries on the northeastern coast, and in particular
those located in or around the cities of Annaba (population 465,000) and Skikda (population 167,000),
is a major problem that needs to be urgently addressed, especially given its impact on human health. This
situation has generated public outcry, in the form of street demonstrations, complaints from NGOs, and
an urgent request by the media to take concrete actions to prevent and control pollution. This region: (a)
includes the largest agglomeration of versatile heavy industries, i.e., iron and steel (Entreprise Nationale
de Siderurgie-ENSiDER) and fertilizers (Entreprise Nationale des Engrais et Produits Phytosanitaires
- ASMIDAL), both situated in Annaba, and refineries and petrochemicals (Entreprise Nationale des
Industries Petrochimiques-ENIP) in Skikda; (b) generates about 10,400 t/y of hazardous wastes with
estimated total stockpiles of 207,000 t; and (c) is unique in terms of meteorological conditions, with a
combination of wind direction from sea to land, temperature inversions, and peak emissions generating
local short-term peak concentrations of air pollutants, which reach hazardous levels for the exposed
population. A review of the environmental situation in Annaba is provided in Annex 1.
1.6    Pollution from the industries in the region is likely to have severe short and long-term effects on:
(a) the health of the workers, (b) the exposed population in nearby villages, and (c) the environment.
Large amounts of air pollutants, toxic discharges to water, and organic wastes such as biochemical oxygen
demands (BOD) are released by these industries. Continuing emissions of heavy metals to air from those
industrial sources would increase the metal content in groundwater and soils, leading to increased levels
in crops, threatening human health and reducing productivity. The water bodies situated downstream of
ENSIDER are almost dead from ecological point of view because of releases of oil, solids, cyanides,
2/     See "Review of Issues in Environmental Management in Algeria," World Bank Report No 12195-AL.



Industrial Pollution Control Project                                                       3
polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAH), and heavy metals. The phosphogypsum discharge from ASMIDAL
has reduced the fish population in the coastal zone. Present mercury releases in ENIP may already be
causing concentration levels in fish flesh above what is considered safe. Air pollution has also affected
the workers' health, as explained in Annex I and summarized in para 1.9 (d).
1.7    A lack of full understanding of the relationship between pollution and health effects, on the one
hand, and between pollution and ecological values, on the other, has prevented the estimation of social
and economic costs arising from environmental degradation. A cost-benefit analysis has, therefore, been
limited to health effects of dust releases only, where the relationship between the health impacts due to
TSP has been established (see para. 4.5). Nevertheless, other pollutants in the area have caused or, in the
longer term, would cause severe degradation of the region. It is, for instance, well known that many
heavy metals are highly toxic for humans and the environment, that polyaromatic hydrocarbons are
carcinogenic, and that cyanides are poisonous. The action program for Annaba, selected as the pilot area
in the northeastern region, has therefore been designed to mitigate these health and environmental effects,
which are considered the most severe in the region. The priorities are founded both on the specific health
and audit studies in the area and on common scientific knowledge. They are based on such criteria as
the pollutants' toxicity, persistence, and liability to accumulate; magnitude of the respective emissions;
established health effect linkages; magnitude of the affected population and disturbed areas; and the
enterprises' plans.
1.8    Environmental Quality in Annaba. To determnine the magnitude and severity of the pollution
in the city of Annaba, a METAP-financed health risk assessment was carried out with assistance from the
wilaya and two local NGOs in an effort to: (a) determine the ambient levels of pollutants in air and water,
and (b) assess the impacts of these pollutants on public health and/or the environment. The study showed
that the concentration of total suspended particles (TSP) is four times higher (320-360 Rg/m3) than the
WHO guidelines (80 ltg/m3) in the two villages of El Bouni and Sidi Amar which are directly exposed
to the industrial air emissions. Similarly, the TSP concentration in the city center of Annaba is twice the
WHO guidelines. The sulfur dioxide (SO2) concentration in El Bouni village (320 ptg/m3) and Annaba city
center (165 Rg/m3) is about six times and three times higher than the WHO guidelines (50 p.g/m3),
respectively. Furthernore, water pollutants such as oils, suspended solids, and cyanides (150 pig/l; WHO
guidelines 50 jig/l) are discharged into the Maboudja and Seybouse rivers. Phosphogypsum (2000 tons
per day) containing traces of radioactive substances, cadmium, and other toxic heavy metals are discharged
untreated into Annaba Bay. Sea water is now acidic in the vicinity of the ASMIDAL plant (sea water pH
= 4.4 to 10 m from the outlet). In addition to industrial pollution, the Meboudja and Seybouse rivers have
a high level of microbiological pollution (over 5.107 coliform/100 ml, norm = 5.104) due to untreated
domestic sewage.
1.9    On the basis of the studies performed (details in Annex 1), the following conclusions could be
made:
(a)    There is strong evidence of the impact of pollution on the health of the population in
Annaba. Acute perceived respiratory morbidity rates were 42.3 percent (national level:
35.7 percent), with cardiovascular morbidity equal to 5.2 percent (national level: 2.2
percent). The villages of El Bouni (population 107,000), Sidi Amar and Darraji Errdjem
(population 84,000), which house the poor workers' families, are directly exposed to the
emissions from ENSIDER and ASMIDAL and display the highest incidence of
cough/dyspnea and asthma compared to non-exposed villages.



4                                                           Industrial Pollution Control Project
(b)    Upper respiratory disorders are the first cause of infant morbidity, accounting for over 50
percent of total reported symptoms. This frequency is much higher than that found in the
general population. Children exposed to industrial pollution in El Bouni presented a
significantly higher incidence of cough (39.7 percent versus 26.4 percent) and lower
respiratory performance (decline of 1.7 percent in timed vital capacity) compared with
unexposed children living in the Safsaf neighborhood of Annaba.
(c)    The prevalence of asthma (which includes 9000 asthmatics) is significantly higher than
the national level (1.7 percent and 0.8 percent, respectively). Asthma is particularly
severe in terms of both frequency and intensity of attacks. In 1993, 55 percent of
asthmatics experienced more than one attack per month, and 42 percent of patients were
hospitalized during the year.  Similarly, for 93 percent of patients, asthma attacks
accounted for at least one sick leave during the year.
(d)    Workers' health in ASMIDAL and ENSIDER is seriously compromised. In ASMIDAL,
skin and ophthalmological diseases have increased to 10 percent and 7 percent,
respectively among workers. In ENSIDER, allergy and irritation of the upper respiratory
tract constitute 30 percent of the perceived morbidity.
(e)    Priority actions for Annaba would be to reduce the air emissions from dust, SO2, VOC,
and NOx, and eliminate water discharges of cyanide and phosphogypsum. The iron and
steel complex of ENSIDER and the fertilizer complex of ASMIDAL were found to be the
major sources of such pollution.
1.10   Institutional and Legal Aspects. An institutional and legal assessment performed during project
preparation (see project files), and partly financed by the Swedish Trust Fund, showed that the institutional
framework recommended several institutional changes that were implemented. The Ministry of Interior,
Local Government, and Environment (MICLE) is now in charge of environmental management and is
headed by a State Secretary of ministerial rank. In MICLE, the Directorate General of the Environment
(DGE) and the Agence Nationale de la Protection de l'Environnement (ANPE) were, respectively, the
operational and technical arm of this ministry, working independently of each other. In March 1995,
ANPE was dissolved and replaced by DGE; the latter took all ANPE staff and physical resources and
became the national environmental agency, with a technical staff of 110 and three regional laboratories.
An additional 25 technical positions were authorized for 1996.
1.11   The previous institutional setup was constrained by: (a) lack of environmental policies and
priorities; (b) redundancies, fragmentation of functions between DGE and the sector ministries; (c) unclear
delineation of responsibilities of DGE, the sector ministries, and local environmental inspectorates, and
weak monitoring and enforcement at the national and local level; and (d) limited technical and
management capabilities to be able to address the major environmental issues of the country. Such
constraints would be mitigated by this Project through the provision of technical assistance and training
to the newly organized DGE.
1.12   Algeria has enacted a Framework Environmental Law (# 83-3) which provides general principles
for environmental management and protection, but enactment of many of its articles has been delayed due
to excessive procedural steps and basic design flaws: i.e., the law requires the issuance of specific decrees



Industrial Pollution Control Project                                                    5
and up to 85 regulations (25 of which have already been issued) for its application. Among those issued
were the EA decree and the decree on air emissions and water discharges standards. While there are
good aspects of the law, some parts of it are redundant or contradictory, and many of the law's articles
-ave not been applied consistently or do not apply to major sectors of the economy. A review of this
law and its related decrees would be undertaken in this project to ensure consistency and coherence with
other sector laws, and the new decrees which would be prepared under this project [para. 2.4(b)].
1.13  In 1992, through the annual Budget Law (Loi des Finances), Algeria also established a National
Environmental Fund (NEF) to receive earmarked funds of a non-budgetary nature. The key features of
this Fund are: (a) it is subject to public budgetary rules and management; (b) its revenue base is made up
of para-fiscal taxes, penalties, grants, and state budgetary contributions; and (c) it cannot engage in lending
and/or borrowing operations either domestically or abroad. The major source of revenues for this fund
has been a pollution tax on industrial installations set up in 1992, which could generate up to DA 125
million (US$2.3 million) a year, but so far only a total of DA 13 million (US$242,000) has been collected
because of poor survey and collection methods at the wilaya level. Fund revenues could be used for:
(a) monitoring the state of the environment and pollution sources; (b) environmental studies and research;
(c) public awareness and education; and (d) grants to environmental NGOs. Since its inception, the NEF
has not operated because of a lack of management structure and program of activities. Since the NEF is
an important source of revenues for DGE activities, the GOA has requested technical assistance from the
Project to make the NEF operational.
1.14   Government Policy and Actions. The Government has a three-pronged strategy for addressing
the problem of industrial pollution, consisting of: (a) strengthening the institutional and legal framework,
(b) controlling pollution, and (c) putting in place economic incentives. The actions were outlined in a
policy letter prepared by the Government (Annex 2), with an attached time schedule for implementing the
priority actions. A signed letter was submitted by the Government during negotiations.
1.15   This strategy is manifest in the following actions: (a) establishment of a High Council for the
Environment and Sustainable Development (HCEDD), as a national policy-making body, and DGE as the
national environmental agency (para. 1. 10); (b) strengthening of the environmental functions of the sector
ministries; and (c) creation of 48 "inspectorats de l'environnement de wilaya" (IEWs) to replace the 13
regional inspectorates. During pre-appraisal, the Bank was informed that HCEDD had been established
by a Presidential Decree # 94-465 in December 1994. The DGE organization chart, had also been
approved and was fully consistent with the recommendations of the institutional study, as well as the IEW
draft decree.
1.16   The Government has also agreed to include the preparation of a National Environment Action Plan
(NEAP) as an integral part of the project. The NEAP would be financed from a METAP grant of
US$600,000 and its preparation and implementation would be initiated in tandem with the reinforcement
of the institutional and legal framework to be carried out under this project. A NEAP technical brief is
provided in the PIP. The legal framework would be also complemented by the priority modification of
two decrees: (a) the EA decree (#90-78), which would subject all categories of projects to environmental
screening, analysis, or assessments; and (b) the decree on classified establishments (#88-149), which would
subject all enterprises to a permit system based on an integrated pollution control approach, and set forth
various monitoring and enforcement schemes [see para. 2.4(c)]. Another decree on the handling,
transportation, and disposal of hazardous waste is in the final stage of being enacted. The Government
has also prepared the management structure and the regulations for making the NEF operational, as first



6                                                             Industrial Pollution Control Project
step toward expanding its mandate to become the financial intermediary for all pollution control
investments (see para 1. 17).
1.17    The Government has also proposed, in its policy letter, the following actions to prevent and
control pollution: (a) identifying and setting priorities for actions against severe environmental degradation
through audits and least-cost mitigation plans; (b) closing down, to the extent possible, industrial units
which are highly polluting, financially non-viable, and unamenable to financial restructuring. An example
is ASMIDAL's closure of the two plants producing sulfuric and phosphoric acid. In case closure of other
polluting plants is politically unacceptable, the Government would set a maximum term for their continued
operation and would finance only environmental investments whose economic payback periods are
compatible with their operational periods; (c) adopting integrated pollution control and the "polluter pays"
principles; (d) determining, through studies, the necessary incentives for promoting clean technologies;
and (e) eventually transforming the NEF into a "Fonds de Depollution et de Protection de
l'Environnement" (FDEPE) as an instrument for providing loans and credits for pollution mitigation.
1.18   To effectively implement the present institutional framework, the GOA intends to adopt a three-
tiered organization structure which would involve the DGE, the relevant sector ministries, and the 48
IEWs and have the following functions:
(a)    The DGE would be the central authority, playing a catalytic role and performing the
functions of: (i) submitting for review to the HCEDD as its secretariat, the NEAP,
environmental national policies and strategies, and proposed legislation; (ii) ensuring
operational and technical coordination; (iii) preparing environmental guidelines and
procedures, and reviewing EAs; (iv) negotiating and issuing environmental permits; and
(v) providing technical and information services to users.
(b)    The sector ministries would strengthen their environmental functions. For example, the
Ministry of Industry and Restructuring (MIR) would: (i) assist in the EA preparation in
its sectors, (ii) program and review of environmental audits, and (iii) coordinate
environmental activities with DGE. The Ministry of Health would undertake health risk
assessments and monitoring activities such as toxicity analyses and participation in air and
water quality measurements.
(c)    The IEW would establish an office in each wilaya to: (i) enforce the laws and decrees and
monitor, on behalf of DGE, the status of pollution and natural resource degradation at the
local level; (ii) follow up on the implementation of the environmental permits; and
(iii) coordinate the environmental activities of the wilaya.
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.19   The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which was discussed at the Board meeting of
February 27, 1996, identified three development priorities: (a) stimulating private sector-led growth;
(b) protecting the poor; and (c) enhancing the country's ability to mobilize external resources. The CAS
also recognized the need to control pollution which has degraded the environment in several geographic
areas, and the fact that such pollution control would eventually require Bank and other donors' financial
support. This project is consistent with the CAS since it will protect the environment from further
deterioration and improve the quality of life of the poor who live in the vicinity of the polluted areas



Industrial Pollution Control Project                                                     7
[para. 1.9(a)]. Furthermore, as a prerequisite for private sector growth, the private sector needs to have
predictable environmental regulations and liabilities as a basis for the privatization program currently
underway. Thus, there is also an urgent need to establish clear and transparent environmental rules and
regulations as positive steps towards improving the business climate in Algeria. This project is also
consistent with the Bank's three-pronged environmental strategy for the MNA region -- strengthening
institutions and participation, arresting emerging pollution, and improving the management of scarce
natural resources -- and would reinforce sustainable development by balancing economic, environmental,
and social concerns.
1.20   Bank assistance provides a unique opportunity to implement the GOA's environmental objectives
and help shape a regulatory and institutional framework, formulate an environmental policy, develop
appropriate economic and financial instruments, and arrest critical sources of pollution in Algeria. The
project would not resolve all the related institutional issues in Algeria or all the pollution problems of its
northeastern region, but rather ensure Government ownership by strengthening the institutional and legal
framework and focusing on those pollutants that have severely negative health impacts and therefore
justify immediate intervention. The project is an essential step for the Government, which is now
committed to addressing pollution problems in a systematic and urgent way. The concerned enterprises
are also fully aware of the severe problems and are committed to controlling hazardous emissions and
waste generation.
1.21   No industrial pollution cleanup strategies would be effective without addressing the PEs and EPEs
in Algeria, particularly in the northeastern region. The GOA has agreed in the Economic Rehabilitation
Loan and the Structure Adjustment Loan of April 25, 1996 that ASMIDAL and ENSIDER, which are
among the 23 non-autonomous PEs, would be restructured and become autonomous. ENSIDER and
ASMIDAL were restructured and became autonomous in March 1995 and April 1996, respectively.
ASMIDAL's restructuring was accompanied by the closure of its sulfuric and phosphoric acid plants,
which were the major sources of pollution. Such closure was approved by the Council of Ministers on
April 18, 1995.
1.22   The GOA has also determined that all PEs and EPEs should bear the costs of cleanup whether
they are (or would) become financially viable. These enterprises should have sufficient control over
decisions that either pay for themselves (win-win investments through improved resource efficiency) or
are necessary to meet the Algerian environmental standards for air emissions and water discharges by
internalizing pollution costs through product price adjustments and/or through their profits (Section IV B).
The Bank's intervention, including financing of ASMIDAL, is fully consistent with the MNA
environmental strategy regarding industrial cleanup in the public sector enterprises. Furthermore, the
industrial restructuring in Algeria, as supported by the SAL, would have a significant impact on all the
23 PEs they embark on a restructuring and/or privatization program. The net effect of the restructuring
of industry may lead to an improvement of environmental quality. Once in place, this project would
strengthen the process of restructuring/privatization.
1.23   Bank involvement would also complement other ongoing and proposed projects in Algeria such
as the Water Supply and Sewerage Rehabilitation Project, the Algiers Pollution Control Project, and the
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), all of which rely on an enhanced capability of environmental
management, including the nationwide capacity to carry out environmental impact assessments, enforce
environmental regulations, and establish guidelines for environmental liabilities. This is the first self-
standing country lending operation in the Maghreb region for industrial pollution control; it would not



8                                                         Industrial Pollution Control Project
only contribute to integrated pollution control in Algeria, but would provide an impetus to shift the
region's conceptual framework toward designing sustainable investment projects, as required in the MNA
environmental strategy, especially for the integrated management of water resources and for arresting the
emerging industrial pollution.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Design Alternatives
2.1    Three alternatives were used for project design: (a) a technical assistance project for strengthening
the institutional and legal framework in industrial pollution; (b) a comprehensive investment project to
control industrial pollution on a national scale; and (c) an institution-building project supplemented by a
limited number of investment-related activities for addressing the most urgent and critical industrial
pollution problems. The first two options were considered premature since Algeria does not have the
human anai financial resources for monitoring and controlling industrial pollution on a national scale. The
third option was found to be the most feasible, since it would ensure Government ownership by
strengthening the institutional and legal framework and focusing on those environmental investments,
which by their severity and exposure, have a large environmental externality to justify an immediate
intervention.
B. Project Objectives
2.2    The project's broad objective is to assist the Government in reducing exposure to hazardous
pollution which causes health problems or serious ecological degradation. Its specific objectives are to:
(a) strengthen the institutional and legal framework; and (b) initiate an investment program in the
industrial sector of Annaba for mitigating the adverse environmental and health effects of pollution.
C. Detailed Project Description
2.3    The project would consist of two main components: (a) the strengthening of the institutional and
legal framework component; and (b) the pilot investments component.
2.4    Strengthening the Institutional and Legal Framework (Baseline Cost = US$11.06 million).
This component would provide technical assistance, studies, training, office and monitoring and pollution
control equipment, and vehicles to support the following four sub-components which are further explained
in Annex 3.
(a)    Institution Building. The purpose of this sub-component is to strengthen the technical
and administrative capacity of: (i) the HCEDD as the cross-sectoral forum for
environmental policies and its sub-commissions, both of which would oversee and review,
inter alia, the NEAP; (ii) DGE as the national environmental agency responsible for
national policies, NEAP preparation, proposing legislation, and ensuring operational and
technical cooperation; (iii) the sector ministries of Industry and Restructuring (MIR) and
Health (MOH) and the National Planning Council (Conseil National de la Planification-
CNP) for assisting in EA and audit preparation in the sectors; preparing health risk
assessment (MOH), and environmental planning (CNP); and (iv) the IEWs in Annaba,
Skikda, Constantine, Algiers, and Oran to undertake monitoring and enforcement



Industrial Pollution Control Project                                                   9
activities. This sub-component would also finance on the promotion and introduction of
clean technology. Detailed terms of references (TORs) were developed for and agreed
by the ministries and the DGE in order to ensure the coordinated implementation of this
sub-component.
(b)    Enhancement of the Legal and Regulatory Framework. The purpose of this sub-
component is to provide the GOA with the administrative, management, and technical
tools to: (i) review, update, and modify the most important legal texts and regulations
derived from the framework environmental law and eliminate overlaps and contradictions;
(ii) apply the modified Environmental Assessment (EA) decree as an effective policy
instrument and develop the appropriate procedures and sector guidelines; (iii) issue and
adopt the modified decrees for the classified establishments, including the issuance of
environmental permits and training and technical assistance for handling the transport of
hazardous waste; and (iv) undertaking a study on environmental liabilities. The policy
letter attached in Annex 2 provides assurance of GOA's commitment to enact the
modified decrees.
(c)    Design and Implementation of a System for Monitoring and Enforcement.  The
purpose of this sub-component is to design and implement the environment permit system
on a pilot basis in Annaba and Skikda. On the basis of the modified decree on classified
establishments (para. 1.16), an environmental permit would be issued after negotiation
between the DGE/IEW and each establishment. This permit would determnine a ceiling
on the pollution amount that each establishment would be allowed to discharge in a given
medium by determining local environmental guidelines, as well as a program (when
necessary) for reducing the total pollution load over a specific time, consistent with the
technology used and the financial status of each establishment. With this sub-component,
DGE and the corresponding IEW should be able to monitor the pollution contracts and
test a series of enforcement measures and financial incentives to mitigate pollution in an
integrated manner.
(d)    Activating the National Environmental Fund. The purpose of this sub-component
would be to make the NEF operational and then expand its role into an effective
instrument of environmental financing as a FDEPE (para. 1.17). This sub-component
would finance two studies on activating the NEF and establishing the FDEPE and on the
development of economic incentives. It is expected that the FDEPE would be the
financial intermediary and would provide loans and credits from GOA contributions,
future Bank loan proceeds, international donors, and environmental taxes and fees
whenever they are legally established. The Government has agreed that FDEPE would
be established on January 1. 1999.
2.5    The Pilot Investments Component (Baseline Cost = US$92.19 million). This component would
cover environmental investments in the fertilizer complex in ASMIDAL and in the iron and steel complex
of ENSIDER. These investments were specifically selected to: (a) demonstrate that they can minimize
a major environmental impact (both enterprises contribute to emissions, health, and environmental
damage); (b) be economically viable; (c) optimize improvements of environmental benefit per unit of
investment; and (d) be carried out by a financially viable enterprise. On the basis of these selection
criteria, each sub-component was designed to include technical assistance and training for plant



10                                                          Industrial Pollution Control Project
housekeeping and operation and health and safety measures, as well as the necessary pollution abatement
investments. Detailed environmental audits, provided in the project files, were financed by the Japanese
PHRD fund, and formed the basis of these environmental activities in ASMIDAL and ENSIDER, as
described below. Annex 1 provides a summary description of the activities, which the Bank loan would
fund at an estimated US$67.5 million.
(a)    ASMIDAL-Annaba. The purpose of this sub-component is to reduce SO2, NOx, and
dust emissions (phosphate, ammonium nitrate) into the atmosphere and to totally eliminate
phosphogypsum discharges. The major investments are: (i) closure, demolition, and
decontamination of the sulfuric and phosphoric acid plants and importing during the first
year, phosphoric acid and/or mono-ammonium phosphate (MAP) to compensate for the
production losses resulting from decline in activity in these two plants; (ii) rehabilitation
of Annaba's port facility to import and store raw materials for ASMIDAL;
(iii) rehabilitation of the gas treatment system in the nitric acid plant nitrate unit;
(iv) installation of a scrubber or granulator in the ammonium nitrate plant;
(e) rehabilitation of the granulation units for the production of nitrogen-phosphate-
potassium (NPK), and tri-super phosphate fertilizers; (v) technical assistance and training
for plant operation and for improving workers' health and safety; and (vi) purchase of
spare parts. The estimated investment costs are US$59.8 million, of which the Bank loan
would finance US$35.0 million. Prior to Board Presentation, the Government submitted
a restructuring plan including closure of the sulfuric and phosphoric acid plants. The
demolition dates for these two plants are December 31. 1997 and June 30. 1998.
respectively. The demolition dates would be a dated covenant.
(b)    ENSIDER-Annaba. The purpose of this sub-component is to reduce emission of dusts,
ammonia, and VOCs in the atmosphere and reduce industrial discharges into the Seybouse
River. The major investments are: (i) the installation or rehabilitation of dust removal
systems for the electric arc furnace, sintering plants, and blast furnaces and installation
of a door cleaning system in the coke ovens; (ii) construction of two waste water
treatment plants, for the blast furnace and for the general wastewater; (iii) installation of
a boiler for ammonia distillation; (iv) renovation of the biological waste water treatment
plant; (v) establishment of an environmental laboratory for pollution monitoring; (vi)
purchase of spare parts; and (vii) institutional strengthening. The estimated investment
cost is US$46.76 million, of which the Bank loan would finance US$32.5 million.
D. Project Costs
2.6     The estimated cost of the project is DA 6.3 billion, or US$118.1 million. The foreign exchange
component of DA 5.1 billion, or US$95.3 million, represents 81 percent of total costs. These estimates
are based on early 1996 prices and exclude taxes and duties, which are estimated to be 15-20 percent.
Detailed cost estimates by component and sub-component are provided in Annex 4, which includes the
assumptions on which physical and price contingencies have been based.
2.7    Table 2.1 below shows a breakdown of project costs by components and sub-components.



Industrial Pollution Control Project                                                                               11
Table 2.1: Project Cost Summary3
(DA in Millions)                  (US$ in Millions)             %           %
Local     Foreign        Total       Local    Foreign    Total        Foreign Total Base
Exchange      Costs
A. Institutional and Legal Framework
Strengthening
1. Institutional strengthening          96.12       413.49      509.61         1.79       7.70     9.49      81           9
2. Legal strengthening                    5.91        10.74       16.65        0.11        0.20     0.31      65          0
3. Monitoring and Enforcement             5.91       32.76        38.67        0.11        0.61     0.72      85           1
4. National Environment Fund             12.35        16.65       29.00        0.23        0.31     0.54      57           1
Sub-total A                           120.29      473.64       593.93        2.24        8.82    11.06      80          11
B. Pilot Investments
1. ASMIDAL                              371.60     2,501.88     2,873.48        6.92      46.59    53.51      87          52
2. ENSIDER                              540.22      1,536.89    2,077.11       10.06      28.62    38.68      74          37
Sub-total B                          911.82     4,038.77    4,950.59        16.98      75.21    92.19      82          89
Total BASELINE COSTS                      1,032.11     4,512.41    5,544.52        19.22      84.03   103.25      81         100
Physical Contingencies                       90.75      401.68       492.43         1.69       7.48     9.17      82          9
Price Contingencies                         102.57      202.45       305.02         1.91       3.77     5.68      66          6
Total PROJEC1 COSTS                        1,225.43    5.116.54    6,341.97       22.82       95.28   118.10      81         114
E. Financing Arrangements
2.8      The Borrower of the IBRD loan of US$78.0 million would be the Government of Algeria. An
amount of US$10.5 million would be allocated to the institutional and legal framework component. The
pilot investments component, for which US$67.5 million would be allocated, would be financed through
subsidiary loan agreements denominated in US dollars. Acting as an agent of the Algerian Treasury, the
Banque Algerienne de Developpement (BAD) would make funds available to ASMIDAL and ENSIDER
at the Bank standard variable interest rate. Reimbursements would have a maximum ten-year repayment
period, including three years of grace. ASMIDAL and ENSIDER would assume the foreign exchange
risk.
2.9      The IBRD  loan would finance 100 percent of the total foreign exchange cost and 85 percent of
the local costs of the institutional and legal framework component, and approximately 92 percent of the
total foreign exchange cost of the pilot investments. GOA would finance part of the local costs of the first
component estimated at US$1.76 million. ASMIDAL and ENSIDER would cover most of their own local
costs, estimated at US$17.08 million and the balance of foreign costs, estimated at US$21.26 million,
through intemal cash generation. Retroactive financing, not exceeding 10 percent of the Bank's loan, can
be provided for expenditures incurred within three months of the signing date. Table 2.2 below provides
a detailed breakdown of the financing scheme.
3/ The Project cost is exclusive of taxes and duties.



12                                                         Industrial Pollution Control Project
Table 2.2: Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
IBRD         GOA           Enterprises   TOTAL
A. Institutional and Legal
Framework Component
1. Institutional Building              8.74          1.76             -          10.50
2. Legal Framework                     0.35          -                -           0.35
3. Monitoring and Enforcement          0.81          -                -          0.81
4. National Environment Fund           0.60          -                -           0.60
Sub-total A                     10.50          1.76              -         12.26
B. Pilot Investments
1. ASMIDAL                            35.00          -               24.08      59.08
2. ENSIDER                            32.50          -               14.26       46.76
Sub-total B                   67.50          -               38.34      105.84
Total                         78.00          1.76            38.34      118.10
* The project cost is exclusive of taxes and duties.
III. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Implementation
3.1    The proposed project would be implemented over a period of approximately eight years and is
expected to be completed by December 31, 2004, and closed by June 1, 2005. DGE in MICLE would
be the implementing agency for this project. Since its preparation, the project has been coordinated by
an inter-ministerial committee for coordination and follow-up (Comite National de Coordination et de
Suivi), which is chaired by DGE and includes representatives of the ministries of Health, Finance, and
Industry and Petroleum, and of the National Planning Council. This Committee would provide overall
policy guidance, review work programs, and resolve any inter-ministerial implementation issues on relating
to this project. During pre-appraisal, the Government submitted to the Bank a signed inter-ministerial
decree establishing this committee.
3.2    A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established within DGE, and consists of a full-time
project manager and competent technical and administrative staff. The PIU would be responsible for



Industrial Pollution Control Project                                                 13
interface between the Bank and DGE. During pre-appraisal, the Govemment submitted the names of the
technical staff of the PIU, which were acceptable to the Bank. The PIU would assist DGE in the day-to-
day management of the institutional and legal component, review and approve the conventions (stipulating
emissions levels, monitoring indicators, and reporting requirements) to be signed between the enterprises
and coordinate the work of the different investments sub-components.
3.3    The pilot investments component of this project would be managed by the individual enterprises
in close cooperation with DGE and IEW. On the basis of the audits performed, least-cost mitigating plans
were prepared with the appropriate package of investments, training, and technical assistance. Each
enterprise would be required to prepare two documents: a subsidiary loan agreement to be negotiated and
signed with the Treasury, and a convention to be signed with DGE and to include the pollution levels
authorized, and monitoring and reporting requirements that ASMIDAL and ENSIDER should fulfill.
Each enterprise would be responsible for its own procurement. DGE and its PIU would maintain regular
contacts with each enterprise and ensure adherence to its implementation and procurement plans. GOA
has agreed to submit, as a condition of effectiveness. the signed subsidiary loan agreements for ASMIDAL
and ENSIDER.
B. Procurement
3.4    All procurement of works and goods financed under the proposed Bank loan would be carried out
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. The Bank would provide Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs),
which were agreed during negotiations. The PIU, on behalf of the beneficiaries of the institutional and
legal framework component, would be responsible for the procurement of vehicles and laboratory and
computer equipment, with a total estimated value of US$3.5 million under International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), US$0.5 million under National Competitive Bidding (NCB), and US$0.3 million under
National Shopping (NS). Each enterprise would carry out its own procurement, comprising mainly highly
specialized industrial production equipment with a total estimated value of US$49.0 million under ICB.
Project equipment represents 75.6 percent of works, goods and services to be financed from the Bank loan.
Purchase of raw materials and spare parts for ASMIDAL will be carried out under International Shopping
(IS) for an amount not to exceed US$3.8 million and US$3.4 million, respectively. National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) would be used to procure civil works for demolishing the sulfuric and phosphoric acid
plants, with a total estimated value of US$2.38 million. For ENSIDER, individual contracts below
US$0.3 million for specialized/proprietary equipment would be eligible for procurement under direct
contracting (DC) for up to an aggregate amount of US$2.8 million, and national shopping (NS) for up to
an aggregate amount US$0.4 million. Proposed procurement arrangements by component are depicted
in Table 3.1.
3.5    Consultants for various assignments would be recruited in accordance with the Bank's Consultant
Guidelines. Their terms of reference would be subject to prior review by the Bank. Technical assistance
and training for the four institutional and legal framework sub-components would be consolidated into two
packages of US$5.6 million and US$0.6 million. One package would cover the institution building,
enhancement of the legal framework, and the design of a system for monitoring and enforcement; the
other would cover the activation of the NEF. During appraisal, the Bank reviewed and approved TORs
for these two packages, described in the PIP. The consulting firm selected for the first package could also
act as a procurement service agent for assisting the DGE in preparing the equipment specifications,
bidding documents, supplier lists, and follow-up on the shipment and installation of equipment.



14                                                                                Industrial Pollution Control Project
Table 3.1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(USS million)
Procurement Methodl
ICB"'        NCB"         OTHERdy          NBF"         TOTAL
Project Components
A.    Institutional & Legal
Framework
- Vehicles & Equipment     3.50           0.50           0.30                        4.30
(3.50)        (0.50)          (0.30)                      (4.30)
- Consultant Services                                     6.20                       6.20
and Training                                           (6.20)                      (6.20)
- Recurrent Costs                                                       1.76         1.76
Sub-total               3.50           0.50             6.5          1.76        12.26
(3.50)        (0.50)           (6.5)                     (10.50)
B.    Pilot Investments
ASMIDAL
- Civil Works                             2.38                          1.19         3.57
(1.90)                                     (1.90)
- Equipment               21.20          0.40            7.20         20.45          49.25
(21.20)        (0.40)          (7.20)                     (28.80)
- Consultant Services                                    4.30                         4.30
(4.30)                      (4.30)
- Social Cost                                                           1.96          1.96
Sub-total              21.20           2.78           11.50        23.60          59.08
(21.20)        (2.30)         (11.50)                     (35.00)
ENSIDER
- Civil Works                                                          2.19            2.19
- Equipment               27.80                          3.20          12.07         43.07
(27.80)                        (3.20)                     (31.00)
- Consultant Services                                    1.50                         1.50
(1.50)                      (1.50)
Sub-total              27.80                          4.70          14.26         46.76
(27.80)                        (4.70)                     (32.50)
TOTAL                  52.50           3.28          22.70         39.62         118.10
(52.50)        (2.80)         (22.70)                     (78.00)
al Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank. Amounts include contingencies.
b/ ICB = Intemational Competitive Bidding.
c/ NCB = National Competitive Bidding.
dl This category includes consultant services and training (US$12.0 million), International Shopping (USS7.2 million), National Shopping
(USS0.7 million), and Direct Contracting (USS0.8 million).
e/ NBF denotes non-Bank financing.
3.6      All contracts for civil works above a threshold of US$0.3 million and for goods above a threshold
of US$0.3 million, as well as appointments of consulting firrns above US$0.1 million and individual
consultants above US$0.05 million, would be subject to prior Bank review. This would result in prior
review of more than 95 percent of Bank-financed goods and services. All other contracts would be subject



Industrial Pollution Control Project                                                  15
to a posteriori review by the Bank. To initiate and accelerate the procurement of technical assistance,
training, and equipment, DGE would be allowed to engage the services of individual consultants for a total
amount not to exceed US$0.3 million. Similarly, they could purchase office and laboratory equipment,
field vehicles, and materials and supplies using NS procedures for a total amount not to exceed US$0.3
million and NCB for a total amount not to exceed US$0.5 million.
C. Disbursement
3.7    The Bank loan would be disbursed, as shown in Table 3.2, against: (a) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures of imported equipment and materials; (b) 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory costs);
80 percent of shelf items procured locally; (d) 100 percent of total expenditures for the consulting services
and staff training for the institutional and legal framework component, ASMIDAL's and ENSIDER's
management improvement program, and institutional strengthening of ENSIDER; and (d) 80 percent of
plant demolition works for ASMIDAL allocated in the IBRD loan.



16                                                             Induzstrial Pollution Control Project
Table 3.2: Disbursement Plan
Category                       Amount             Percentage of
(US$ Million)      Expenditures to be
Financed
1. Consultant Services and
Training                                               100
(a) Strengthening the                6.2
Institutional and Legal
Framework
(b) Technical Assistance             4.3
and Training for
ASMIDAL
(c) Technical Assistance              1.5
and Training for
ENSIDER
11. Goods                                         IOOF/IOOLE/80L a/
(a) Vehicles and Equipment            4.3
for Institutional and
Legal Framework
Component
(b) Equipment for                    25.0
ASMIDAL
(c) Import of Raw                     3.8
Materials for
ASMIDAL
(d) Equipment for                    3 1.0
ENSIDER
111. Civil Works                        1.9                80
Demolition of
Sulfuric and Phosphoric
Acid Plants
TOTAL                                 78.0
a/ F = Foreign expenditures; LE = Local expenditures (ex-factory); L = Local expenditures fbr other
items procured locally.
3.8    To facilitate prompt payments to suppliers and consultants, the Bank would advance funds to
establish and replenish one Special Account (SA) at the Central Bank of Algeria. The SA would be
denominated in US Dollars for an amount of US$4.0 million and used to cover the Bank's share of
eligible expenditures in both local and foreign currencies over a period of four months. The Special
Account would be replenished monthly upon receipt of replenishment applications submitted with
appropriate supporting documentation, or when approximately one-third of the maximum amount allowed
has been spent, whichever comes first.   Monthly bank statements of the Special Account would
accompany replenishment requests. Withdrawals against contracts for goods and works valued below
US$300,000 equivalent, for contracts with consulting firms valued below US$100,000 and for individual
consultant contracts valued below US$50,000 would be presented to the Bank for payment on the basis
of statements of expenditure (SOEs). The disbursement schedule is summarized in Table 3.3 below.



Industrial Pollution Control Project                                                        17
Table 3.3: Disbursement Schedule
Bank Group Fiscal Year
------------------------------(USS million)-------------------------
1997   1998  1999   2000   2001   2002   2003  2004
Annual                 1.5    6.0  12.8   18.7   12.5   15.6    7.8    3.1
Cumulative             1.5    7.5  20.3   39.0   51.5   67.1   74.9   78.0
D. Reports
3.9    The PIU would submit a quarterly progress report to the Bank and an implementation completion
report within six months following the loan closing date. The quarterly progress report would cover: (a)
status of procurement of civil works, equipment, and services, including revised timing of procurement
actions such as bidding and contract awards; (b) investment expenditures to date and estimates of costs
for remaining works, goods, and services; (c) progress towards compliance with output and environmental
indicators (Annex 5); and (d) implementation of technical assistance programs and procurement carried
out by DGE, ASMIDAL, and ENSIDER in accordance with the implementation schedule in Annex 6.
E. Accounts and Audits
3.10   The GOA and each of its executing agencies would provide Bank staff with access to all financial
reports necessary to assess implementation progress, monitor compliance with loan conditions, ensure
proper use of Bank loan proceeds, and assess the continuing financial viability of participating public
enterprises. The Financial Comptroller's Office (Inspection Generale des Finances) within the Ministry
of Finance would carry out an annual audit of the project account, including the Special Account and the
statements of expenditure, pertaining to the institutional and legal framework strengthening component.
In addition, each enterprise would engage independent auditors (Commissaires aux Comptes) acceptable
to the GOA and the Bank to carry out annual audits of its income statement, balance sheet, and statement
of sources and uses of funds. All audits are to be carried out in accordance with international standards,
and terms of reference for private firms would be subject to the Bank's prior review. Certified copies of
all audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank not later than nine months following the close of the
Borrower's fiscal year, i.e., June 30 of each year.
F. Supervision
3.11   During the first year of implementation, the Bank plans to send three supervision missions;
subsequently, two missions a year would suffice to supervise all activities. Following Board approval
of the loan, the Bank and DGE would jointly organize a workshop to orient key staff of the PIU,
ASMIDAL, and ENSIDER and all other agencies in the application of Bank Guidelines and procedures
for procurement and disbursement, the Operational Plan (OP). It is anticipated that the supervision effort
would require about 40 staff-weeks during the first year and 30 staff-weeks per year thereafter. The
missions would be staffed by an environmental economist, financial analyst, and one or more technical
specialists in environment-related fields, depending on the nature and scope of the immediate
implementation issues. The missions would focus on reviewing progress on the procurement, installation,
and operation of major investments in plant equipment; status of the DGE and the enterprises' compliance
with monitoring indicators (Annex 5) and the implementation schedule (Annex 6); the enterprises'



18                                                         Industrial Pollution Control Project
financial position; their maintenance programs; and the availability of spare parts. Local consultants may
carry out supervision missions as needed, especially to oversee technical assistance and training sub-
components. Not later than July 1, 2001, the GOA and the Bank would carry out ajoint mid-term review
of project implementation. This review would, inter alia, identify and enforce remedial measures, if any,
needed to carry out project objectives and would focus on the progress made towards compliance with
the performance indicators.
G. Environmental Impact
3.12   The project falls within category "B" according to the classification in OD 4.01  A health risk
assessment, air and water quality measurements, and detailed environmental audits for ASMIDAL and
ENSIDER were also prepared to form the basis for mitigation plans included in the project's respective
investment sub-components.
H. Sustainability
3.13   Three major factors are expected to contribute to the sustainability of the project: (a) a credible
enforcement threat; (b) an examination of the incentive structures to enhance both pollution prevention
and mitigation; and (c) the internalization of the investments costs by the polluting enterprises. The
credibility of the enforcement threat is enhanced through the project's institutional and legal framework
component and Government ownership and commitment to strengthen and enforce the law and to help
establish self-monitoring and enforcement at the local and plant levels. At the national level, in addition
to having elevated the State Secretariat of the Environment to a cabinet-level position, the HCEDD, the
national policy making body, would also ensure that environmental concems are addressed and integrated
into the country's socioeconomic development agenda. The preparation of the NEAP would be an
effective mechanism to set long- and short-term priorities recognizing the resource constraints. The
reorganization of the DGE, the establishment of environmental management units at the sector ministries,
and the IEWs would ensure that the EA reviews, monitoring, and enforcement are institutionalized at the
national and local levels. In terms of the second factor, the GOA's policy letter (para. 1. 14) includes the
establishment of economic and financial incentives as essential instruments for pollution prevention. The
implementation of the provisions of the NEF would ensure that all polluting enterprises are assessed
pollution taxes in accordance with the Budget Law of 1992 (para. 1.13). Strengthening the enforcement
of this law would enhance the revenue base and would generate adequate resources for the implementation
of the environmental priority programs. In addition, the transformation of the NEF into an efficient
financial intermediary for environmental financing (FDEPE) would include the adoption of economic
instruments and lending for environmental prevention and mitigation consistent with the "polluter pays"
principle.
3.14   The project's financial sustainability, in large measure, would be predicated on the ASMIDAL's
and ENSIDER's capacity to generate sufficient resources to self-finance part of their investments in plant
and equipment and to repay the investment loans throughout the life of the project and beyond. ENSIDER
and ASMIDAL have undergone financial restructuring culminating in full managerial and financial
autonomy (para 1.21). In the early 1990s, both ENSIDER and ASMIDAL incurred sizeable deficits.
These were the result of the need to borrow through the overdraft facility of the local banking system to
meet an increasing foreign debt service in the face of a rapidly devaluating dinar.
3.15   ENSIDER's management has requested complementary measures to further enhance its financial
position. The salient features of the plan are DA 13 billion dinar (US$242 million) in recapitalization and



Industrial Pollution Control Project                                                   19
debt rescheduling. With respect to ASMIDAL, the central feature of company's proposed financial
restructuring plan is the forgiveness of DA20 billion (US$372 million) in local debt. The financial
projections in Annex 7 are consistent with ASMIDAL's proposal.
3.16   The likelihood of the project's financial sustainability is linked to both the country's economic
stability and the enterprises' ability to compete in a market economy. Such economic stability is
predicated on the progress to be achieved under the wide ranging stabilization program (para. 1.2). The
restructuring of ASMIDAL and ENSIDER, as pre-conditions, coupled with a package of enviromnental
improvement in terms of good housekeeping, improved management, training, and targeted investmnents
were designed to ensure improvement in environmental quality. The net effect, however, would lead to
healthier price competition and quality products, since this project is expected to help facilitate the
transition to a market economy. Annex 7 describes the actual and envisaged financial perfonnance of
ENSIDER and ASMIDAL.
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. General
4.1    The purpose of this project is to assist the GOA in reducing industrial pollution, which is causing
serious health problems and ecological degradation in the northeastern part of the country, and to enhance
the Government's capacity to sustainable manage environmental problems. A broad range of benefits are
expected, including reduction in air pollution, protection of surface and groundwater resources, protection
of coastal waters and marine resources, protection of ecological values, and improvements in economic
efficiency (including better management, more efficient use of resources, and better product quality). In
addition, because of the location of the industries within urban areas and on the coast, other benefits from
the project include improvements in amenity and other non-use values, and an overall healthier living
environment for the people of the region. However, because of lack of data and methodological
complexities, only a small number of these benefits are quantifiable, namely human health improvements
from reduced dust emissions and some productivity improvements. On this basis alone, the project is
economically viable, as demonstrated below, and explained in Annex 8.
B. Internalization of the Pollution Abatement Cost
4.2    Assessment of the project's financial viability has been predicated on the capacity of each PE to
internalize its pollution abatement costs, i.e., its capacity to (a) incur and service the resultant additional
debt, and (b) generate sufficient resources internally to finance part of and maintain environmental
investments under the project. ASMIDAL's financial projections have been based on conservative price
and production estimates that show an improvement in the debt service coverage ratio from 0.4 in 1994
to 1.6 in 1997, when the company would have an operating revenue of DA 2.3 billion (US$42.8 million)
adequate to cover a debt service expected to reach DA 2.1 billion (US$39.1 million). ENSIDER's
financial projections have been based on the company's financial restructuring plan. These projections
show an increase in the debt service coverage ratio from 0.3 in 1994 to 1.5 in 1997. Similarly, the
company's expected operating revenue in 1997 of DA 7.6 billion (US$141 million) would cover the
annual debt service, expected to reach DA 5.7 billion (US$106 million). Financial projections for the two
enterprises are shown in Annex 7.



20                                                          Industrial Pollution Control Project
C. Least-Cost Solutions
4.3   Investments to strengthen the institutional and legal framework, including technical assistance, are
not amenable to conventional economic analysis because of the difficulty of evaluating benefits. However,
these investments have been qualitatively evaluated and represent a key element in the sustainability of
overall project benefits. Economic analysis has been carried out on the pilot investments component of
the project, representing 89 percent of project expenditures. For investments undertaken by ASMIDAL
and ENSIDER, a least-cost (in the case of process-type solutions) or cost-effective (in the case of end-of-
pipe solutions) approach has been used consistently to evaluate technical alternatives of pollution
mitigation. In each case, a detailed environmental audit was used to determine the pollution sources and
emission levels, as well as the technical alternatives.
D. Project Benefits
4.4    The institutional and legal framework strengthening component is expected to increase capacity
for policy formulation, monitoring, and enforcement. This added capacity would doubtless increase public
expenditures to some degree, but it would yield major benefits in terms of contributing substantially to
lowering the current social cost of environment and natural resource degradation, keep future costs in
check, and reduce the inefficiencies of the country's fragmented system of environmental protection. The
second component would produce several major benefits: (a) for the local populations of Annaba, relief
from pollution, with positive impacts on the quality of their lives, particularly for children; (b) from a
public expenditure point of view, a lower health cost bill, with additional savings on education, workers'
compensation, productivity losses, and special interventions (pollution accidents); and (c) for ASMIDAL
and ENSIDER, although not the primary focus of the project, improvements in energy efficiency,
production efficiency, and product quality, resulting in lower worker exposure and better management and
safety. Following mitigation actions proposed in para. 2.5, concentration of pollutants in ambient air
would decrease. This decrease would be most prominent at the point sources; however, concentrations
would drop in the whole region. Modeling based on the proposed mitigation measures gives the following
average reduction for the Annaba region (rounded figures):
Particulates                       45 percent
SO, (sulfur dioxide)               65 percent
NH, (ammonia)                      10 percent
VOC (volatile organic compounds)   25 percent
NOx (nitrogen oxides)               5 percent
E. Economic Evaluation
4.5    The overall Project justification is based on its pollution reduction benefit rather than on purely
economic benefits. Although the environmental benefits are not all quantifiable, particularly those related
to human health impacts, a partial cost-benefit analysis was undertaken comparing total investment costs
to savings due to reduction in air pollution. Using a dose-response model, which provides a relationship
between health impacts and changes in concentration levels of total suspended particles (TSP) of a major
pollutant, it was estimated that if TSP were maintained at its current level (of 2-4 times WHO norms) in
the Annaba region, it would result in 246 deaths, 2.9 million days of reduced activity due to sickness,
27,300 asthma attacks, and 9.2 million respiratory symptoms per year. Morbidity alone represents a total
annual cost to society of DA 1.4 billion (US$26.0 million); this cost can be broken down into: (a) direct



Industrial Pollution Control Project                                                     21
annual cost linked to treatment of pathologies attributable to pollution, estimated at DA 514 million
(US$10.0 million); and (b) annual indirect costs due to loss of productivity from reduced activity,
estimated at DA 868 million (US$16.0 million). The morbidity cost alone represents the low estimate of
the total social cost. On this basis, an eight-year investment program in the Annaba region, costing on
average US$8.5 million per year (for a total of US$67.5 million), would result in lowering TSP levels
to WHO standard levels and consequently provide benefits of at least US$26.0 million, corresponding to
a saving of over US$13.0 million per year for the next ten years.
4.6    The economic evaluation of the pilot investments component of the project includes savings in
health costs and productivity losses as the primary benefit, as well as improvements in production capacity
and quality as a by-product. Clearly, because all the benefits are not quantifiable, economic rates of return
(ERR) cannot be usefully determined for each enterprise. In the case of ENSIDER, although all the
investments are end-of-pipe, dust reduction will allow a more efficient use of the electric arc furnace,
resulting in productivity enhancement: thus, the economic justification of the investment is mostly based
on improvements in environmental quality. Since ENSIDER contributes about 90 percent of TSP, this
corresponds to an ERR of 49 percent using ENSIDER's investment cost and a yearly benefit strearn of
90 percent of total social cost. In the case of ASMIDAL, project environmental benefits cannot all be
estimated; however, avoided TSP pollution and process efficiency are used to compute an ERR of 29
percent.
F. Social Impacts
4.7    The project would have positive social impacts through reduction of exposure of the local
populations to industrial pollution. In the case of Annaba, the villages of El-Bouni and Sidi-Ammar,
which are exposed to significant industrial pollution sources, are among the lowest income groups in the
wilaya. Because these populations have less disposable income and live in lower quality conditions, the
project can only contribute to improving their welfare.
4.8    The potentially negative social impact of the project, affecting 210 workers, relates to the gradual
closure and demolition of ASMIDAL's phosphoric and sulfuric acid plants [para. 2.5(a)]. This may result
in a gradual reassignment of workers, though it would not be entirely due to the closure of these two units
per se, but to the financial restructuring of the enterprise and its reorganization in accordance with the
financial audit performed under the Bank's Enterprise and Finance Structural Adjustment Loan. In the
restructuring plan that ASMIDAL has prepared, a 50 percent reduction in the work force is anticipated
by 1999, at both complex locations in Annaba and Arzew. Until the total reorganization is in place, the
project has included the following mitigating actions: (a) during the first year, the current work force
would be involved in the decontamination and demolition of the two acid units; and (b) after the second
year, part of the work force would be reassigned to the two NPK units whose production capacity would
increase after they are rehabilitated. In addition, the proposed Bank loan allocation for ASMIDAL
includes US$4.3 million for training and technical assistance for management and workers and would
involve workers' retraining as necessary. The project has also included, as part of the GOA contribution,
a two-year compensation benefits package in accordance with Algerian labor laws in the event workers
are transferred to another ASMIDAL facility in Arzew, are dismissed, or leave because of early retirement.
The Bank has received written confirmation from the Government that the closure of the phosphoric and
sulfuric acid plants was made public through the press and TV. ASMIDAL's management has confirmed
in writing to the Bank that the workers' syndicate in Annaba was officially informed of the Council of



22                                                        Industrial Pollution Control Project
Ministers decision to close the plants (para. 1.21) and that a social plan, as part of the enterprise
restructuring, has been prepared for the total reorganization of the ASMIDAL complexes.
V. THE GOVERNMENT'S PARALLEL PROGRAM IN SKIKDA
5.1   In parallel with the preparation of this project, the Government has prepared, with the Bank's
assistance, a parallel pollution program for the wilaya of Skikda. The progran would eliminate mercury
emissions in the industrial areas of Skikda and would resolve the issues of hazardous solid wastes stored
in the different wilayates of the northeastern region. Two sub-projects were proposed:
5.2.   ENIP-Skikda. The purpose of this sub-project is to eliminate mercury pollution. This includes
the safe disposal of mercury-contaminated sludges currently stored on site. The major investments entail:
(a) changing over to a membrane process for chlorine production; (b) mercury decontamination in the
existing plant; (c) constructing a landfill on the plant premises for the stockpiled mercury-contaminated
sludge, in accordance with international standards; and (d) technical assistance and training for plant
operators.
5.3    Storage and Disposal Facility for Hazardous Waste: Skikda. The purpose of this sub-project
would be to construct a hazardous waste disposal site that conforms to internationally accepted standards
for performance and environmental impacts. This landfill would serve the northeastern region. It would
have a capacity of 6000 t/y in addition to the 7000 t of existing stockpiles. It would have a life of 20
years. The major actions include: (a) site characterization and geotechnical studies; (b) construction; and
(c) management of the landfill. The landfill site belongs to the Government.
5.4    The estimated cost of these two sub-projects, derived from the feasibility studies, is US$68.3
million, of which the Government has solicited concessional loans for US$42.5 million to cover the
foreign exchange costs. The European Investment Bank has agreed in principle to allocate $40.0 million
for ENIP's investment. The Government is also seeking additional financing for the hazardous waste
disposal and storage facility.
VI. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.1    The major benefits of this project are the reduction in environmental degradation and its
consequent impacts on human health. The institutional component, a prerequisite for any effective
pollution control program, would strengthen the national and local capabilities in the design, monitoring,
and enforcement of appropriate policies and regulations. The pilot investments component would
contribute substantially to the reduction of hazardous emissions and waste in the northeastern region and
would achieve both pollution reduction and improvement in operational efficiency through the use of
cleaner technology and waste minimization. As a whole, the project is expected to contribute to social
cohesion in Annaba, since the public and local NGOs have been calling for a solution for many years.
6.2    The major risks to project implementation fall under the following categories:
(a)    Managerial. The project is institutionally complex, since it involves multiple agencies
and two PEs. Although this risk is inevitable in an environmental operation involving
both institutional and pilot investments components to reduce large environmental
externalities, this risk has been mitigated by: (i) setting up a PIU and an inter-ministerial



Industrial Pollution Control Project                                                  23
committee to oversee project implementation; (ii) limiting project execution and scope to
four ministries for the institutional component and to two enterprises for the pilot
investments component; and (iii) establishing terms of reference for the concerned
ministries and project agreements with the enterprises.
(b)    Technical. The key risk is that ASMIDAL and ENSIDER may not be able to undertake
all the environmental activities contemplated in their respective sub-components. This
risk has been reduced by: (i) involving the senior management of the enterprises in
preparation of the mitigation plans; and (ii) strengthening the enforcement entities, in
particular, DGE and the IEW in Annaba, so that they would be able to enforce
compliance with the signed environmental conventions.
(c)    Political Situation  in Algeria.  The current situation in Algeria could delay
implementation of the project. This risk would be partly mitigated as follows: (i) the
technical assistance element would rely primarily on local consultants, with the provision
of international consultants limited to very specialized skills, which would only be needed
after the second year of the project; (ii) the training element was also designed to allow
for overseas training in case local training could not be undertaken; (iii) civil works would
be undertaken by local firns; and (iv) project supervision could be carried out by the
same consultants from the Maghreb countries who assisted in project preparation.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1    The following agreements were reached with the Government during negotiations:
-   The Government, in collaboration with the Bank, would carry out a mid-term review
by July 1, 2001 to assess project progress on the basis of agreed indicators (para
3.11).
7.2    Conditions for Board Presentation would be the submission of a restructuring plan for
ASMIDAL including the closure of the sulfuric and phosphoric acid plants (para. 1.21).
7.3    Conditions for Effectiveness would be the submission of signed subsidiary loan agreements
between the Treasury and each of the two PEs (para. 3.3): ASMIDAL and ENSIDER.
7.4    The proposed dated covenant for the demolition of ASMIDAL's sulfuric acid plant is
December 31, 1997 [para. 2.5(a)].
7.5    The proposed dated covenant for the demolition of ASMIDAL's phosphoric acid plant is June
30, 1998 [para. 2.5(a)].
7.6    The proposed dated covenant for the establishment of the FDEPE is January 1, 1999
[para. 2.4(d)].
7.7    Financial covenants would require that ASMIDAL and ENSIDER maintain a debt service
coverage ratio of at least 1.5.



24                                                        Industrial Pollution Control Project
7.8    Recommendation. Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$78.0 million equivalent for a term of 17 years, including 5 years of grace and at the standard
variable interest rate.



Annex 1
Page 1 of 11
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL SITUATION IN ANNABA
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Pollution Situation in Algeria
I.    The World Bank's review of the environmental management issues in Algeria indicates that
industrial pollution constitutes a major part of the total pollution in the country. The main polluting
industries are the petrochemical and chemical industries, mining and ore processing, and the metallurgy
and manufacturing industries. The largest concentration of industrial activity is found in the northern
coastal belt, a densely populated part of the country, which makes up only 1.7 percent of the total area
of Algeria. Most of the polluting industries are concentrated in and around the major urban centers of
Algiers, Oran, Annaba, Skikda, and Constantine. Since the largest share of industrial growth occurred
during the 1960s and 1970s, the capital stock is old and highly polluting. Most of the enterprises do not
have any pollution control equipment. The equipment installed has not been properly maintained and
iacks spare parts. Poor housekeeping also impedes the performance of these treatment facilities. The
environmental impact is as follows:
(a)    Water pollution is the major cause of water quality degradation. A total of 6 billion m3
of industrial and municipal wastewater is currently being discharged untreated into the
rivers and the sea, combined with leakage from hazardous waste sites, causes serious
problems. The problem is compounded by the fact that the rivers' natural flow is very
low in summer. Furthermore, nearly all of Algeria's groundwater aquifers (Mascara,
Blidah, Saida, Chetiff, and Mitijda) are either already contaminated or threatened with
contamination. The Mascara aquifer is no longer used for domestic water supply,
resulting in a loss of 60 million m3 a year, equivalent to the annual water supply for a
population of 800,000.
(b)    Air pollution is caused by dust, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (NO), volatile
organic hydrocarbons (VOC), and heavy metals from heavy industry and the power sector.
In addition, serious air pollution is the result of lead emissions from the use of leaded
gasoline. The transport sector also emits hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides, and carbon
monoxide.
(c)    Waste from industrial sources is estimated at 4.9 million tons per year (tly); 185,000 t/y
of the generated (solid, liquid, sludge) and 350,000 t of the stockpiled wastes are
considered hazardous.



Annex I
Page 2 of 11
B. The Institutional Framework
2.     Responsibility for environmental protection falls under the Ministry of Interior, Local Government,
and Environment (MICLE). In March 1995, the Government of Algeria established the Directorate General
of the Environment (DGE) as the national environmental agency. DGE is now staffed with 110 technical
staff and will be supplemented by another 25 technical positions. It has three regional laboratories. At
the wilaya level, an environmental inspector was nominated, but has very limited technical resources. The
Government of Algeria (GOA) has also enacted a decree for establishing 48 Environmental Inspectorates
of the Wilaya (IEW), in order to monitor and enforce environmental laws and decrees. The project is
providing, in its first component, US$12.26 million for technical assistance, training computer equipment
and vehicles to reinforce the institutional and legal framework.
C. The Legal Framework
3.     Algeria has enacted a Framework Environmental Law (#83-3) which provides general principles
for environmental management and protection. The major features and flaws of this law are: (a) the
establishment of discharge standards which were issued by decrees, but are not based on sound economic
foundation; (b) adoption of the environmental assessment (EA) for which general guidelines were issued
as a decree (#90-78), but which exempts major infrastructure projects (such as dams, power stations) are
exempted; (c) guidelines for issuing permits and licenses which are not in use because of redundancies and
contradictions within the classified establishments decree (# 88-149); (d) the establishment of civil liabilities
and compensation for damage, determined by the courts, but which are only applicable in certain situations;
and (e) civil and criminal penalties ranging from fees to jail sentences which are not applied.
4.     The legal framework would be modified under this project to include changes in the following two
decrees: (a) the EA decree (#90-78), subjecting all categories of projects to either environmental screening,
analysis, or assessments; and (b) the decree on classified establishments (#88-149), subjecting all enterprises
to a permit requirement that is based on of the integrated pollution control approach and sets forth the
various monitoring and enforcement schemes. Another decree on the handling, transportation, and disposal
of hazardous waste is in the final process of being enacted.
5.     The following list is a summary of the laws and decrees are considered to be relevant to industrial
pollution and hazardous wastes:
Law No. 83-03 on environmental protection
Decree No. 88-228 on the disposal of PCBs
Decree No. 88-149 on classified establishments
Decree No. 88-227 on environment inspectors
Decree No. 90-78 on conducting environmental assessments
Decree No. 90-97 on transport of hazardous materials
Decree No. 93-68 on environmental taxes
Decree No. 93-160 on industrial wastewater
Decree No. 93-165 on air emission
Decree No. 93-184 on noise regulations
Project for a decree on the management of hazardous wastes



Annex 1
Page 3 of 11
II. THE NORTHEASTERN REGION OF ALGERIA
6.     The northeastern region includes the wilayas of Annaba and Skikda, located along the
Mediterranean coast in eastern Algeria not far from the Tunisian border (see IBRD Map). These wilayas
were selected because they hold: (a) the largest agglomeration of versatile heavy industries, such as iron
and steel, and fertilizers in Annaba, refineries and petrochemicals in Skikda; and (b) the largest amount of
stocked hazardous waste and one of the largest generators of wastes (10,400 t/y). Annaba is also unique
in terms of meteorological conditions; wind direction from sea to land and temperature inversions combine
with peak emissions levels and generate local short-term peak concentrations of air pollutants that reach
hazardous levels for the exposed population.
7.    The following studies were undertaken on the major industrial sites located near the wilaya's main
town of Annaba: (a) pollution load calculations; (b) air and water quality measurements; (c) a health risk
assessment; and (d) detailed environmental audits. Details are given below.
III. THE WILAYA OF ANNABA
A. Geographical Characteristics
8.    The first series of studies was carried out in the Arnaba urban area including the Annaba, El Bouni,
Sidi Amar, and El Hadjar communes, which are 15 km apart and together constitute a vast urban
concentration of 465,000 inhabitants (see IBRD map). About 40 percent of the population is under 15
years of age. This urban concentration is surrounded by two large industrial complexes: to the north, the
ASMIDAL fertilizer complex; and to the south, ENSIDER's iron and steel complex at El Hadjar. This
zone is essentially urban and divided by two main water courses: the Seybouse wadi is the second largest
river in Algeria, whose mouth lies at the southern border of the Annaba commune; and the Meboudja wadi,
whose flow was only temporary and is a tributary of the Seybouse wadi.
B. Pollution Loads in the Wilaya of Annaba
9.    Air pollutants. An estimation of the total air and water pollutant loads for Annaba are found in
Table 1 below. It shows that ASMIDAL and ENSIDER are the most significant sources of air pollution
in Annaba.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 11
Table 1: Contribution to Air Pollution in Annaba
llutants    .    Pollutant;     ENSIDER         ASMIDAi Contribution from: 0
Loids t/y    Contributon:   Contribution              Other: Sources
. ~ ~ ~ ~~~~         y     o  .                       . .  .   .: ..  .  ..
Particulates      42,600         84%               10%                Various Sources: 6%
Lead                252          94%                --                        Traffic: 6%
Sulphur           13,200         32%               68%                       Traffic: < 1%
Dioxide
Nitrogen           2,700         40%               24%                    Power Plant: 16%
oxides                                                                        Traffic: 18%
Air Traffic: 1%
VOC               13,700         89%                 --              Wood Production: 1%
Traffic: 10%
Ammonia            7,500         41%               32%                    Agriculture: 27%
10.    Water Pollutants. The major water pollutants in Annaba are: oil, polyaromatic hydrocarbons
(PAHs), pesticides, chloride, nitrates, amnmonia, iron, chromium, and cyanides, as shown in Table 2.
Table 2: Contributions to Water Pollution in Annaba
Polluant   A        Pollunt t   ENSIDER          ASMIDAL            Contribution from
... l;  ..0-   ...t 0i: loads flty  Contribution:    Contnrbution     Other Sources
Oil                 7,819           36%                        Various Other Sources: 64%
PAHs                   87           73%                                  Power Plant: 27%
Pesticides              2            --                                 Agriculture: 100%
Chlorides           4,700           78%                             Domestic Sewage: 22%
Cyanides              434          100%             --
Nitrate and        26,333           10%            12%                 Agriculture, Various
Ammonia                                                               Other Sources: 78%
Iron                1,983          100%
Chromium oxides         6           72%            27%
11.    Table 2 also shows that from the industrial sources, ENSIDER and ASMIDAL are the largest
important contributors to water pollution. ENSIDER discharges into the Oued Meboudja, which discharges
into the sea. The Oued is a relatively small stream, and may be fully dry during the summer. It would



Annex 1
Page 5 of 11
appear that ENSIDER is a major contributor to pollution of the Oued. The discharges of phosphogypsum
from ASMIDAL into the bay of Annaba will have an important impact on the bay's ecosystem because
of the high volume of nutrients and heavy metals in the phosphogypsum.
C. Ambient Air Quality in Annaba
12.   Methodology. Five sites were selected to measure the levels of air pollution taking into account
the meteorological data. Two sites were selected for their exposure to industrial pollution; EL Bouni
exposed to the emissions of the iron and steel complex (ENSIDER) and the fertilizer complex (ASMIDAL);
and Darraji Errdjem, part of Sidi Amar, exposed to the emissions from ENSIDER. Two other sites were
selected in the most heavily populated neighborhoods; central Annaba, a densely populated area with a high
level of vehicle traffic; and Annaba Kouba, a calm area at some distance from the center from the city,
with little exposure to industrial complexes in terms of the principal wind directions. The substances
measured were SO2, NOx, VOC, dust, and fluorine. Measurements were taken during three months
(September - December 1994) for fifteen consecutive days at each site. Additional measurements over a
longer period were not possible due to the security situation that prevailed in Annaba during 1994.
13.   Results. Data in Table 3 below show high levels of dust and to a lesser degree S02. The
influence of the industries is clear for these two pollutants: ENSIDER and ASMIDAL for dust emissions
and ASMIDAL for SO2 emissions. These two pollutants are the most disquieting for public health,
especially considering that they are known to act concomitantly in the respiratory tract. VOC and NOx
values are also high, but the measurement method used (instantaneous values) does not allow for rigorous
comparison of results with existing standards. Fluorine levels are also higher than the guideline value.
Table 3: Results of Atmospheric Pollution Measurements in the Annaba Area
Total      S2        N2        VOC       N13        F
Suspended
Particles    ug/m3   sg/m3     IAg/m3     Ag/m3    jug/m3
,ug/m3
El Bouni              315       321         3,320   4,944                 3
Darragi Errdjem       365                  77       11,758      67        22 
Sidi Amar Center      130       n.d.      n.d.       n         n.d.      n.d.
Annaba Center        754         15       1,9       9,228       2 
Annaba Kouba          137        14        83       1,60        21
WHO values            80         50        200      2,000      100        10
D. Water Quality
14.   Methodology.  Water samples were taken from: (a) both ground and surface water used for
drinking and irrigation; and (b) surface fresh water: main wadis and tributaries, downstream from the main
urban and industrial sources as well as coastal salt water; and wastewater from urban areas. The parameters
measured were: total suspended solids (TSS), biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5), nitrates, coliform, fecal
matter, and cyanide.



Annex I
Page 6 of 11
15.   Results. Groundwater, particularly that used for drinking water, does not present certain traces of
contamination by pollutants. Surface water is characterized by a high level of microbiological pollution
(over 107 coliform/100 ml at the mouth of the Seybouse river) due to discharge of urban wastewater and
untreated industrial water. Wastewater from ENSIDER complexes causes a distinct increase of cyanide
levels in the Meboudja wadi (150  jig/l, 3 times the WHO  guidelines).   Although  not
measured here, discharge of used oils is considerable (over 2 million liters per year). Wadi water cannot
be used by the population as drinking water because of industrial pollution, and the discharges contribute
to pollution of the Mediterranean coast. Discharge of phosphogypsum (2000 tons/day) from the ASMIDAL
phosphoric acid plant is the primary cause of degradation of the marine environment. This degradation
is due to considerable deposits of solid matter, acidification of water (PH = 4.4 at 10 meters from the
complex's outlet) and the presence of heavy metals (cadmium).
E.    Health Effects
16.   Methodology. The public health study consists of an analysis of existing epidemiological data for
the general population and workers (retrospective studies), supplemented when necessary by transversal
studies (prospective studies). The primary epidemiological results originated from analysis of raw data
from a morbidity study undertaken on the Annaba wilaya in 1993 on 1000 households, following a protocol
similar to that of the national survey organized by the National Institute of Public Health (INSP, 1992),
allowing for significant comparisons between specific data from the Annaba wilaya and national averages.
A study was performed during the month of November 1994 on schoolchildren, on two groups
(exposed/unexposed) of 224 and 212 children with a mean age of 10 years, living respectively in an area
considerably exposed to atmospheric industrial pollution (El Bouni), and in an area with little exposure (the
Safsaf quarter in Annaba, on the Seraidi road, near the Kouba quarter). The children were selected
randomly by groups after elimination of individuals who suffered from a diagnosed and treated respiratory
disorder during 15 days preceding the study.
17.   Results. On the basis of the data analysis, the following conclusions could be made:
(a)    Acute perceived respiratory morbidity rates were 42.3 percent (national level: 35.7
percent), with cardiovascular morbidity equal to 5.18 percent (national level: 2.18 percent).
Statistics also showed that upper respiratory disorders are the first cause of infant
morbidity, accounting for over 50 percent of total reported symptoms. This frequency is
much higher than that found in the population in general (23 percent) .
(b)    The El Bouni village (population 107,000) which is directly exposed to the emissions of
ASMIDAL and ENSIDER and the Sidi-Amar village (population 13,000), which is
exposed to ENSIDER emissions, display the highest incidence of coughldyspnea and
asthma when compared to other non-exposed villages. Populations in these two villages
is among the lowest income groups in the wilaya.
(c)    The level of asthma prevalence (which includes 9,000 asthmatics) is significantly higher
than the national level (1.67 percent and 0.8 percent, respectively). Asthma is particularly
severe in terms of both frequency and intensity of asthma attacks. In 1993, 55 percent of
asthmatics experienced more than one attack per month, and 42 percent of patients were



Annex 1
Page 7 of 11
hospitalized during the year.  Similarly, for 93 percent of patients, asthma attacks
accounted for at least one sick leave during the year.
(d)    Children who are living in the El Bouni village and exposed to industrial pollution,
presented a significantly higher incidence of cough (39.7 percent versus 26.4 percent,
p<0.05) and lower respiratory performance (decline of 1.7 percent in timed vital capacity,
p< 0.05) compared with unexposed children living in the Safsaf neighborhood of Annaba.
A French study found that children exposed to 100 Ag/m3 of dust show a decrease of 1.5
percent in forced expiratory volume in one second compared with the population of
children in theory exposed to 0 ig/m3 of dust.
F.    Environmental Audits
18.    Based on the results from the environmental quality and health studies, the priority for interventions
in Annaba will be to reduce the air emissions from dust, SO2, VOC, and NOx because of their health
impact. The iron and steel complex of ENSIDER and the fertilizer complex of ASMIDAL, major sources
of such pollution, were selected for detailed environmental audits.
Entreprise Nationale de Siderurgie - ENSIDER - Annaba
19.    General. The ENSIDER iron and steel complex is situated 15 km south of the city of Annaba.
The nominal production capacity is approximately 2 million tons of steel per year, but current production
is of the order of 0.8 million tons of steel per year. The production line at ENSIDER is standard,
consisting of a coke oven, two sintering plants, two blast furnaces, basic oxygen furnaces, and an electric
arc furnace. The production line also includes hot rolling mills, cold rolling mills, and galvanization. The
main raw materials are imported coal, iron ore from Ouenza in Algeria, and scrap steel, the majority of the
latter being produced internally in the work. The main products are sheet steel, coils, pipes, wire, and
reinforcements for concrete.
20.    Workers' Health and Safety. The total number of workers is 16,000. ENSIDER's medical
records and analysis showed that allergy and irritation in the upper respiratory tract constitutes 30 percent
of the perceived morbidity. This is followed by skin infections of which solvents and oils are the source.
It was also found that 1,500 workers constituting 64 percent of the work force in the sintering plant, are
exposed to dust concentration (particle size less than 5 pig) exceeding the threshold limit value permissible
in the work place (2mg/m3). Thirty workers exposed to dust for the last five years were diagnosed with
pulmonary fibrosis. Among the workers of the coke plant, the phenol concentration in urine (indicator of
benzene exposure) is 15 mg/I ( norm 10 mg/I) and the peroxene concentration (indicator of VOC exposure)
is 3.9 pig per g of creatinine ( norm is 2pLg/g). The frequency of worker accidents is 67 percent, double
of what is permissible in a similar plant in France.
21.    Pollution Loads. The major pollutants are:
particulates in the atmosphere from the sintering plant, the blast furnaces, the coke ovens
and the new electric arc furnace, which is due to come on-line at the beginning of 1995.
Emissions of particulates amount to 35,700 t/y at the current production rate. Dust
containing lead amounts to 230 t/year.



Annex 1
Page 8 of 11
*      organic matter (12,200 t/y), ammonia (3,100 t/y), and phenol (660 t/y) to the atmosphere,
emitted mainly from the coke ovens;
*      sulfur oxides in the atmosphere (4,100 t/y), emitted mainly from the coke oven and the
sintering plants; and
*      wastewater, containing oils and greases (2,650 m3/y), suspended solids (6,000 t/y), heavy
metals, and cyanides.
22.    Mitigation Measures. The following recommendations have been made, based on the findings
of the audit and least-cost option considerations:
*      the fitting of a dust removal system (fabric filter) to eliminate particulates from the electric
arc furnace;
*      renovation or replacement of the dust removal systems for the sintering plants;
*      replacement or renovation of the dust removal systems for the blast furnaces;
a      for the coke oven, fitting of a door cleaning system and systems for dust removal during
charging of the coal and coke pushing;
*      installation of a boiler required for the distillation of ammonia from wastewater (ammonia
liqueur) and renovation of the biological treatment works for ammonia, phenol, and
cyanide removal;
*      construction of a wastewater treatment works for blast furnace 1; and
*      construction of a treatment works for the general industrial wastewater that is currently
being discharged to the local Oued. The treatment works will also allow recycling of the
process water and therefore reduce water consumption. Water shortage is currently a major
problem.
23.   Implementation of the above recommendations will result in reductions in pollutant loads of: 26,200
t/y of dust; 10,800 t/y of VOCs; 500 t/y of SO2; 2,500 t/y of ammonia; and 650 t/y of phenol to the
atmosphere in addition to a reduction of 2,550 m3/y of oils and grease and 4,400 tly of suspended solids
discharged to the Oued Meboudja.
24.    Investments.  The total cost of implementing these recommendations, including technical
assistance and training, as well as the purchase of spare parts, amounts to US$46.76 million, of which
US$32.5 million is the Bank's contribution.
Entreprise Nationale des Engrais et Produits Phytosanitaires - ASMIDAL - Annaba
25.    General. The ASMIDAL fertilizer complex produces both phosphate and nitrate fertilizers and
is situated to the east of Annaba. The phosphate fertilizer chain produces sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid,



Annex 1
Page 9 of 11
and NPK, TSP, STPP fertilizers. The nominal capacity is 330,000 t/y of NPK or 264,000 t/y of TSP.
Actual production in 1993 was 171,600 tones of NPK and 39,000 tones of TSP. The nitrate fertilizer chain
produces ammonia, nitric acid and ammonium nitrate, with a nominal capacity of 330,000 t/y of anmonium
nitrate. The actual production of ammonium nitrate in 1993 was 121,675 tons. In general, the units that
comprise the nitrogen fertilizer chain are in a better state of maintenance than the phosphate fertilizer units.
The latter are in a state of advanced degradation due to inappropriate operational practices (e.g., very
frequent shutdowns) and a general lack of maintenance.
26.   Workers' Health and Safety. The total number of workers is 2,000. The medical record in
ASMIDAL showed that in the last ten years skin and ophthalmological diseases increased from 8 percent
to 10 percent and from 4 percent to 7 percent, respectively. A medical analysis performed in 1992 showed
that 24 workers had fluorosis and 16 workers had a fluorine concentration in the urine of 0.8 ig/l ( norms
0.5 jig/l). The frequency and gravity of accidents due mainly to acid production have increased by 120
percent in the last three years and the number of days lost is on the order 10 percent.
27.   Pollution Loads. The major pollutants are:
*     SOx to air, originating from the sulfuric acid plant, with a load of 9,000 t/y;
*     particulates to the atmosphere originating from the ammonium nitrate plant, 4,300 t/y at
the current production rate;
*     ammonia to air from the ammonia plant, 2,300 t/y at the current production rate;
*     nitrogen oxides to air from the ammonia plant and the nitric acid plant, 1,200 t/y;
-     fluoride to air, originating mainly from the phosphoric acid plant, 90 t/y;
*     phosphogypsum with an acidic PH originating from  the phosphoric acid unit, and
discharged directly to the sea at a rate of 288,000 t/y; and
*     ammonia (6,400 t/y), nitrates (13,300 t/y), and phosphates (17,500 tly) originating from the
NPK plant and discharged directly to the sea.
Mitigation Measures
28.   Phosphate Chain. Following the techno-economic and environmental study, five options have
been evaluated. Based on the least-cost option, of which a sensitivity analysis was performed, the following
recommendations were retained:
*     total shutdown of the sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid plants within a period of 18 to 24
months from April 1995. This shutdown occured in November 1995;
*     during this transition period, the production rate of phosphate fertilizers from sulfuric acid
and phosphoric acid produced at the ASMIDAL site will be progressively reduced from



Annex 1
Page 10 of 11
45 percent of the current production rate to 0 percent. This will, therefore, result in the
total elimination of SOx pollution to the air and phosphogypsum discharges to the sea;
*      the NPK I line will be rehabilitated. The NPK 2 line will be rehabilitated after the 24
month transition period. The rehabilitation of these 2 plants will result in a reduction in
ammonia discharge of 6,300 t/y, a reduction in nitrate discharges of 13,200 t/y and a
reduction in phosphate discharges of 17 300 t/y; and
*      during the first 6 months of the transition period a harbor facility will be rehabilitated in
order to allow for the import of phosphoric acid. Subsequent to the completion of this
facility, phosphoric acid for the production of phosphate fertilizers will be imported directly
or MAP will be imported instead, depending on market economics.
29.    Nitrate chain. The following options have been retained:
*      rehabilitation of the ammonia plant, one nitric acid plant and one ammonium nitrate plant
which will have a positive effect on the level of environmental releases, and the
rehabilitation of the tail gas treatment system in order to reduce NOx emissions by
280 tly; and
*      installation of a scrubber or granulator for removing dust from the amnmonium nitrate unit
gases, with a resulting reduction in dust emissions of 4,200 t/y.
30.    Investments costs. The investments required for implementing the recommendations for the
phosphate and nitrate fertilizer chains is US$59.08 million, of which US$35.0 million will be the Bank's
contribution. The investments include technical assistance in the operation of pollution control equipment
and training in pollution control, and safety measures in the amount of US$4.3 million.



Annex 1
Page 11 of 11
ANNABA URBAN AREA                    i400             .tords                    .M&diterraryean
:300   :-  Seraidi
PARTICLE POLLUTION                2
pg^3 PS S02 e  ;s-S
Ubnzones
Industrial zones .
Main roads                                  ,NN.ABA .r-.
-  Wadis                                                                                          40
0    Sampling stations:                                                                            loi
P1: El Bouni: Polyclinic                                                                        o
P2: Darajil Erredjem : High schooI
P3: Sidi Amar centre: APCO townhail)                                                          g      PS  S02
P4: Annaba centre: Wilaya headquarters                                                         ......-----
PS: Annaba Kouba: Institut of Medical
Sciences F
Annual wind direction
and frequency
South                                :400-
>Wesermn wind <
p.~~~~Ir                   1~~00 -        K B-
m20n020 
100~~~~~~0 
Not  idd                 S mPr,                                                     t rdS l
~ ~gi3PSL S0 2
4-~ ~~~0 
m-     r arrioo ErredJem -                                                                    \t
-400



Annex 2
Page 1 of 6
Unofficial Translation
April 24, 1996
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, DC 20433
Subject:     Environmental Policy on Industrial Pollution
Mr. President:
First, allow me to express my satisfaction regarding the excellent relationship our Government has
established with the World Bank to address environmental and sustainable development issues.
As you know, Algeria is facing disquieting environmental issues, which have begun to threaten
public health, the country's sustainable development and the potential for future generations to have access
to the resources necessary for their socioeconomic needs. The present legal and institutional framework
has begun to prepare the country for resolving these issues. In the meantime, these efforts need to be
reinforced.
TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
In order to begin the process of sustainable development, the Algerian Government passed a
framework law of February 3, 1983 related to environmental protection, which stipulates that the national
environmental protection policy is aimed at:
-     natural resource conservation, restoration, and development;
-     prevention and control of all forms of pollution and hazards; and
-     improvement of the quality of life.
Environmental protection is henceforth a basic requirement of national policy for social and
economic development.
The context created by economic reforms offers an excellent opportunity for integrating
environmental protection concerns with the economic objectives which we plan to achieve and which
should be also compatible with environmental protection.
Economic reforms adopted by Algeria are environmentally beneficial insofar as they allow every
company to seek costs minimization and a greater efficiency in the use of technologies and scarce
resources.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
Moreover, applying the "polluter-pays" principle to which the Algerian Government fully adheres,
provides additional incentives for better environmental protection.
The national strategy for environmental protection rests mostly on the following elements:
-      legal and institutional strengthening;
-     pollution control; and
-     measures for economic incentives.
These elements were conceived to:
-      complement the economic policy;
-      promote better use of resources;
-     promote the use of clean and efficient technologies mainly in the use of raw materials;
and
-     promote investments in the area of clean technologies.
Their implementation is already well advanced and will be consolidated under the World Bank loan.
Within the institutional framework, Algeria created a High Council for the Environment and
Sustainable Development (Haut Conseil de l'Environnement et du Developpement Durable (HCEDD))
chaired by the Head of the Govemment, which consists of concerned ministers and persons chosen by the
Head of State.
HCEDD constitutes a forum for thought, debate, and arbitration for all issues related to the design
and implementation of the national policy for environmental protection.
Moreover, the Algerian Government has set up its environmental structure in the form of a
General Directorate, consisting of five (5) sub-directorates, endowed with all managerial and financial
autonomy. Algeria has adopted a government structure for environment, which is the State Secretariat
in charge of the environment, which will ensure national environment policy, coordination and
formulation.
The Algerian Government has also established, at the level of each wilaya, an environmental
inspectorate whose main function is to ensure that environment laws and regulations are implemented.
All these environmental institutions must be set up and made operational within the shortest
possible time.
In the area of pollution prevention and control, we have been focusing on the industrial pollution
and toxic wastes issue, one of the most disquieting in Algeria. This issue needs to be treated as urgent
treatment and Government action in this area will be required in two forms: reducing the pollution of
existing industrial units and promoting a clean industry.
In order to reduce the pollution of existing industries, we plan to start acting as early as January
1996 in the industrial zones located within the wilayas of Annaba and Skikda. This action will
progressively reach other parts of the country, based on a timetable to be established according to the
project currently being discussed with the World Bank.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
Our action will consist of:
Establishing priorities based on environmental audits and mitigation plans.  These
priorities will be based on a cost-benefit analysis in order to maximize environmental
benefits.
Closing, as much as possible, partially or entirely, any industrial unit that is excessively
polluting, financially non-viable and cannot be restructured. In case immediate closure
has negative social consequences, the Algerian Government will fix a maximum operating
period for the industrial unit during which depollution measures may be taken only if the
depollution investments have a payback period compatible with the maximum operating
period fixed by the Government.
To prevent pollution by promoting clean industry, the Government will undertake the following
actions:
Amend before January 1, 1997, Decree #90-78 related to environmental impact
assessment in order to adapt it to the national economy and the needs for environmental
protection.
Amend, before June 1, 1996, Decree #88-149 related to classified establishments in order
that the authorization process be based on the notion of "environmental permit" and
integrated pollution control.
Determine, by means of an appropriate study, before March 31, 1998, incentives to
encourage imports and promote the use of clean technologies.
In the area of economic incentives, the "polluter-pays" principle will be applied. As early as
January 1, 1999, the Depollution Fund as well as other regulating and economic incentives measures will
be implemented.
This project constitutes the first investment operation in the environment sector undertaken in
Algeria and financed by the World Bank.
This pilot project's main objectives is to reduce industrial pollution and ensure a national
environmental management of toxic wastes and public health protection in the Skikda and Annaba regions.
It will have two components:
Strengthening of the legal and institutional framework; and
Implementation of an investment program  to depollute two industrial complexes at
Annaba (ENSIDER and ASMIDAL), an industrial complex at Skikda (ENIP). The latter
could benefit from a loan from the European Investment Bank.
The first component will consist of strengthening the procedures, providing technical assistance, training,
and purchasing equipment to reinforce our environmental institutions.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
The institutions which will benefit from the strengthening program are the following:
-     DGE (Directorate General of the Environment)
-     HCEDD
-     environment inspectorates (about 10)
-     units involved within the ministries of Health, Industry, Energy, the CNP (Conseil
National de la Planification)
It is also planned for the:
-     Improvement of the regulatory framework through the amendment of decrees
related to environmental impact assessment and the one related to classified
establishments, and enactment of the decree related to toxic wastes management.
-     Establishment of HCEDD, which will be endowed with adequate operational
means, and the preparation of a national environment action plan (NEAP), which
will be submitted to the HCEDD before June 1, 1998.
-     EEstablishment of the procedures to set up an environmental permit and integrated
pollution control system (applied to the Annaba and Skikda regions as pilot
operations), and the establishment of an administrative and organizational system
for the transport of toxic wastes.
-     Implementation of a study whose objective is to determine the government's and
the economic sector's liabilities (public and private) in financing depollution
programs.
-     Establishment of financing institutions and proper mechanisms for the
environmental sector through, particularly, review of the National Environment
Fund (FNE Fonds National de l'Environnement) statute and make it operational
by June 1, 1997.
-     Implementation of a study whose objective is to determine new economic
incentives aimed at better protecting the environment and based on the "polluter-
pays" principle and the market economy.
As for the second component, it was found that three industrial plants in Annaba and Skikda are
responsible for most of the pollution in the northern area of the country.
The ENSIDER and ASMIDAL complexes emit nitrous and sulfur oxides, fluorhydric acid, dust
particles,and cyanide-containing waste substances into water sources at concentration levels above WHO
accepted norms.
We have agreed with the firms involved (ENSIDER and ASMIDAL) about a depolluting program
to be implemented in this framework. We have ensured that all investments made to ASMIDAL,
ENSIDER and ENIP are compatible with the economic restructuring program as supported by the World
Bank Economic Rehabilitation Loan (ERL).



Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
World Bank assistance will strengthen our efforts in launching our sustainable development policy.
We have taken appropriate steps so that the project be launched as planned. We have already set up an
interministerial committee, which is actively involved in the project design and which will be responsible
for its implementation. We have also established the implementation unit for this project which consists
of a task manager and technical experts. Moreover, on the basis of the attached project timetable, we are
willing, with your assistance, to implement all the key elements of this project.
We hope the present project will be followed by other operations in order to deal with Algeria's
industrial pollution and toxic wastes issues.
Please accept, Mr. President, the expression of our high esteem.
Sincerely,
Signed
The State Secretary to the Minister of Interior,
Local Government and Environment, In Charge
of the Environment
Ahmed Noui



Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
ACTION SCHEDULE
Elements                              Implementation Date                 Task Manager
Work program for the first year            01/01/97                           DGE
Establishment of HCEDD and its             01/01/97                           SEE
committees
Environment Action plan                    01/06/98                           DGE
preparation
Establishment of environmental             01/02/97                           DGE
inspectorates at Annaba, Skikda,
Algiers and Oran
Completion of the executive                01/01/97                           SEE
decree amendment on the
environmental impact assessment
Enactment of a decree on toxic             01/01/97                           SEE
wastes
Enactment of the executive decree          01/01/97                           SEE
amendment on "classified
establishments"
Operation of the National                  01/06/96                   DGE/Finance Ministry
Environmental Fund as stipulated
in the 1992 Appropriation Law
Establishment of a Fund for the            01/01/99                   DGE/Finance Ministry
depollution and protection of the
environment (FDEPE). FDEPE
is a financial mechanism of the
depollution projects based on
NEF and replenished by DGE's
revenues, economic incentives
and Government budgetary
support
Signature of the conventions with          01/01/97                      DGE/ENSIDER
ENSIDER
Signature of the conventions with          01/01/97                     DGE/ASMIDAL
ASMIDAL
Signature of conventions with               10/01/95                       DGE/ENIP
ENIP



Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
COMPONENT I: Strengthening the Institutional and Legal Framework
1.    This first component will enhance the following environmental functions: policy formulation,
coordination, monitoring, and enforcement. These functions will be strengthened through:
(a)   Institution building by reinforcing the technical and administrative capacity of the DGE,
the sectoral ministries and the IEWs, and articulating the environmental policies of the
HCEDD and preparing the NEAP;
(b)    Enhancing and updating the legal and regulatory framework;
(c)    Designing and implementing monitoring and enforcement system; and
(d)    Activating the NEF and expanding it into the FDEPE.
2.    This component will: (a) provide 425 person-months (pm) of international and local consultants;
(b) organize and implement 25 technical and specialized workshops which will be attended by about 500
professionals from the sector ministries, local government, NGOs, and private and public sector consulting
and industrial firms; (c) provide training abroad to 45-60 professionals in the different environmental fields
of specialization; (d) finance a total of three policy studies (environmental liabilities, environmental
financing mechanisms, FDEPE structures, and clean technology); and (e) purchase a total amount of
US$6.3 million of field vehicles, laboratory equipment and materials, computer equipment for air and
water pollution monitoring and supplies, books and documentation. A summary of the four sub-
components are provided below.
A. Institution Building
3.    The purpose of this sub-component is to strengthen the technical and administrative capacity of:
(a)    The HCEDD as the cross-sectoral forum  for environmental policies and its sub-
commissions, both of which will oversee and review, inter alia, the NEAP;
(b)    The DGE as the national environmental agency responsible for national policies, NEAP
preparation, EIA reviews, proposing legislation and ensuring operational and technical
cooperation;
(c)    The sector ministries of Industry and Petroleum (MIP), Health (MOH) and the National
Planning Council (Conseil National de la Planification-CNP) for assisting in EA reviews



Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
and in industrial audits (MIP), health risk assessment (MOH) and environmental planning
(CNP); and
(d)    The IEWs in Annaba, Skikda, Constantine, Algiers and Oran to undertake monitoring and
enforcement activities. Detailed terms of references (TORs) were developed for the
ministries and the DGE in order to ensure the coordinated implementation of this sub-
component.
4.    This sub-component (US$10.5 million) would include:
(a)    Technical services to: (i) HCEDD for developing procedures and operations, including
identification of a set of policy and economic studies on selected environmental problems
that will be identified by the sector ministries and industrial associations, as well as for
the development of council members' capabilities to analyze policy options for
environmental problems outlined in the NEAP; and (ii) the DGE, sector ministries (MIR,
MOH, CNP) and five IEWs to develop operational procedures and guidelines; organize
their own environmental program to set up appropriate mechanisms for information
sharing and cooperation, and to establish the necessary institutional and legal framework
that will foster the implementation of activities in the NEAP;
(b)    Training technical staff of the DGE, the sector ministries, NGOs and private and public
sector firms in environmental planning, environment management techniques, monitoring
and enforcement, pollution modelling, environmental economics, environmental
assessment and audit reviews, and health risk assessment, including short visits to
international environmental protection agencies and relevant environmental institutions
abroad; and
(c)    Purchase of air and water quality monitoring laboratories for Annaba and Skikda,
Constantine, Algiers and Oran and office equipment, books and journals, field vehicles,
and computer hardware and software for the DGE, MIR, MOH and the five IEWs of
Annaba, Skikda, Constantine, Algiers and Oran.
B. Enhancement of the Legal and Regulatory Framework
5.    The purpose of this sub-component is to provide the Government with the administrative,
management and technical tools to:
(a)    Review, update and modify the most important legal texts and regulations derived from
the Framework Environmental law and eliminate overlaps and contradictions;
(b)    Apply the modified Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) decree as an effective policy
instrument and develop the appropriate procedures and sector guidelines; and
(c)   Issue and adopt the modified decrees for the classified establishments including the
issuance of environmental permits and for handling and transport of hazardous waste.



Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
6.    Under this proposed arrangement, financing in the amount of (US$0.35 million) will be provided
for:
(a)    Consulting services to assist DGE, the Ministries of Industry and Petroleum and Justice
to review and update existing text regulations, and undertake an assessment of the
environmental guidelines under the Intemational Standards Organization (ISO);
(b)    Training and workshop to support the participatory process of reviewing and fine tuning
regulations and legal measures. The training programs will be for sector ministries,
including the Ministry of Justice and the Secretariat General of the Government (SGG)
in environmental law, environmental impact assessment, environmental audits, processing
and ways to promote better understanding and awareness of environmental legal issues;
and
(c)    Purchase of equipment and the establishment of a legal documentation center.
C. Design and Implementation of a Monitoring and Enforcement System
7.    The purpose of this sub-component is to design and implement the environment permit system
on a pilot basis in Annaba and Skikda. On the basis of the modified decree on classified establishments,
an environmental permit will be issued after negotiation between the DGE/IEW and each establishment.
This permit will determine a ceiling on the pollution amount that each establishment would be allowed
to discharge in a given medium as well as a program (when necessary) for reducing the total pollution
load over a specific time consistent with the technology used and the financial status of each
establishment. With this sub-component, DGE and its IEW should be able to monitor the pollution
contracts and test a series of enforcement measures and financial incentives to mitigate pollution in an
integrated manner.
8.    This sub-component (US$0.81 million) will include:
(a)    Consultant services to design the permit system and to prepare operational procedures
and guidelines for drafting and reviewing pollution proposals and contracts and expanding,
if successful, the application of such a system nationwide; and
(b)    Financing: (i) a program for environmental audits, pollution load and health risks
assessments to identify and rank areas of severe environmental degradation; and (ii) two
studies on the promotion of clean technologies and the environmental liabilities for the
private and public sector.
D. Activating the National Environmental Fund
9.    The purpose of this sub-component will be to make the NEF operational and then expand its role
into an effective instrument of environmental financing as a FDEPE. The proposed project will finance
only technical assistance for activating the NEF and establishing the FDEPE after a comprehensive
organizational study is undertaken. It is expected that the FDEPE will be the financial intermediary and
will provide loans and credits from GOA contributions, future Bank loan proceeds, international donors



Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
and from environmental taxes and fees whenever they are legally established. The Government has agretd
that the establishment of FDEPE will be covenanted at 1/1/99.
10.   This sub-component (US$0.60 million) will include:
(a)    Consultant services to establish the administrative structure of the NEF and prepare its
operational and financial guidelines and its activities;
(b)    Financing two studies on: (i) the identifying the best policy, economic and financial
instruments; and (ii) the most appropriate institutional and financial arrangement for
establishing the FDEPE on a commercial basis; and
(c)    Training for establishing the FDEPE on the basis of the recommendations of the
commissioned studies.



Annex 4
Page I of 3
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
1.    The estimated cost of the project is DA 6.3 billion, or US$118.1 million. The foreign exchange
component of DA 5.1 billion, or US$95.3 million, represents 81 percent of total costs. These estimates
are based on early 1996 prices and exclude taxes and duties, which are estimated to be 15-20 percent.
A 10 percent contingency has been applied to all expenditures for civil works and equipment. Price
contingencies have been based on the following inflation rate assumptions:
(a)   local costs are expected to rise 15 percent during 1996, 10.3 percent in 1996, 7.6 percent
in 1997, 7.6 percent in 1998 and 5.5 percent thereafter; and
(b)    foreign costs are expected to rise 2.4 percent per annum over the duration of the
project.
2.    The cost of the consulting services is based on an average person-month cost of US$16,000 for
foreign consultants and US$6,000 for local consultants. These rates comprise individual fees, local
allowances, and in the case of foreign consultants, international travel.
3.    The attached tables show a breakdown of project costs by component and sub-component:



Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
Institutional and Legal Strengthening
Breakdown of Totals (million US$)
Detailed Costs                                   For.   Local   IBRD    Govt
Total   Exch. Excl. Tax  Total   Total
A. Institutional Strengthening
1. DGE
Equipment                            4.00    4.00    0.00    4.00    0.00
Training                              0.66    0.59    0.07    0.66    0.00
Technical Assistance                 3.19    2.93    0.26    3.19    0.00
Recurrent costs                      1.76    0.00    1.76    0.00    1.76
Subtotal DGE                           9.61    7.52    2.09    7.85      1.76
2. HCEDD
Equipment                            0.02    0.02    0.00    0.02    0.00
Studies                              0.07    0.07    0.00    0.07    0.00
Subtotal HCEDD                         0.09    0.09    0.00    0.09      0.00
4. MPS
Equipment                            0.24    0.24    0.00    0.24    0.00
Technical Assistance                 0.07    0.07    0.00    0.07    0.00
Studies                              0.21    0.21    0.00    0.21      0.00
Subtotal MSP                           0.52    0.52    0.00    0.52    0.00
S. MIR
Equipment                            0.04    0.04    0.00    0.04    0.00
Technical Assistance                 0.24    0.24    0.00    0.24    0.00
Subtotal MIE                           0.28    0.28    0.00    0.28    0.00
Subtotal                                 10.50    8.41    2.09    8.74    1.76
B. Legal Strengthening
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)  0.12    0.07    0.05    0.12    0.00
Hazardous Waste Management             0.11    0.08    0.03    0.11    0.00
Pollution Permits                      0.12    0.09    0.03    0.12    0.00
Subtotal                                  0.35    0.24    0.11     0.35    0.00
C. Monitoring and Enforcement
Fund for Environmental Audits          0.43    0.43    0.00    0.43    0.00
Implementation Permit System           0.07    0.04    0.03    0.07    0.00
Studies                                0.31    0.18    0.13    0.31      0.00
Subtotal                                  0.81    0.65    0.16    0.81     0.00
D. National Environment Fund
Technical Assistance                   0.25    0.20    0.05    0.25    0.00
Training                               0.35    0.13    0.22    0.35    0.00
Subtotal                                  0.60    0.33    0.27    0.60    0.00
TOTAL                                    12.26    9.63    2.63   10.50    1.76
^ Project costs are exclusive taxes and duties



Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
ASMIDAL
Breakdown of Totals (million USS)
Detailed Costs                                            Local
For.   (Excl.  IBRD  ASMIDAL
Total   Exch.  Taxes)   Total   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment and Inputs
Scrubber for ammonium nitrate unit    3.79     3.79    0.00     3.70    0.09
Harbour reception facility            4.82     4.82    0.00    4.71     0.11
Rehabilitation NPK (lines 1 and 2)   10.62    10.62    0.00    10.37    0.25
Spare parts (phosphate line)          4.29     4.29    0.00     2.81     1.48
Spare parts (nitrogen line)          10.59    10.59    0.00     3.41    7.18
Rehabilitation of nitric acid unit    6.32     6.32    0.00     0.00    6.32
Rehabilitation ammonium nitrate unit  3.16     3.16    0.00     0.00     3.16
Import of primary material inputs     5.66     5.66    0.00     3.80    1.86
Subtotal Equipment and inputs          49.25    49.25    0.00    28.80    20.45
B. Civil Works
Scrubber for ammonium nitrate unit    0.46     0.00    0.46     0.00    0.46
Harbour reception facility            0.73     0.00    0.73     0.00    0.73
Subtotal Civil Works                     1.19    0.00     1.19    0.00     1.19
C. Services
Demolition of sulphuric acid unit     1.05     0.00    1.05     0.84    0.21
Demolition of phosphoric acid unit    1.33     0.00    1.33     1.06    0.27
Subtotal Services                       2.38     0.00    2.38     1.90    0.48
D. Management Improvement
Maintenance plan                      0.52     0.26    0.26     0.52    0.00
Operational management training       1.26     1.01    0.25     1.26    0.00
Environmental management system       0.62     0.31    0.31     0.62    0.00
Technology Transfer                   1.89     1.51    0.38     1.89    0.00
Subtotal Management Improvement         4.30     3.09    1.21     4.30    0.00
E. Social Costs                         1.96     0.00    1.96    0.00      1.96
Total                                     59.08    52.34    6.74    35.00    24.08
Figures may not total exactly due to rounding
Project costs are exclusive taxes and duties
ENSIDER
Breakdown of Totals (million USS)
Detailed Costs                                            Local
For.   (Excl.   IBRD  ENSIDER
Total    Exch.  Taxes)   Total   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment
Dust removal (sinter plant)          9.06      5.95    3.11     5.95     3.11
Dust removal (electric arc furnace)  12.71     9.04    3.67     9.04     3.67
Coke ovens                           7.47      4.91    2.56     4.91     2.56
Blast furnaces                       3.20     2.31     0.89     2.31     0.89
Water treatment for blast furnace     3.85     2.82    1.03     2.82     1.03
General waste water treatment plant   3.42     3.42    0.00     3.42     0.00
Spare parts                          2.82      2.82    0.00     2.01     0.81
Laboratory equipment                 0.54      0.54    0.00     0.54     0.00
Subtotal Equipment                    43.07    31.81    11.26    31.00     9.15
B. Clvil Works
General waste water treatment plant  2.19      0.00    2.19     0.00     1.78
C. Technical Assitance
Institutional Strengthening and Training  1.50  1.50   0.00     1.50     0.00
Total                                    46.76    33.31    13.45    32.50    10.93
^ Project costs are exclusive taxes and duties



Annex 5
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Baseline     Mid -        End of
Project      Project
I. Development Indicators
Reduced perceived respiratory morbidity in El Bouni and Sidi         42.3          40           38
Amar (%)
Real increase of environmental professionals in sector ministries and  115       215           280
public sector agencies
Real growth of funding by donors for environmental pollution          n/a          10           12
control (%)
II. Output Indicators
Number of participants for in-country training                                    200          500
Number of participants for training abroad                                         25           60
Number of completed studies                                                         3            4
III. Environmental Indicators"
Annaba (ENSIDER & ASMIDAL)                                               Releases to air (t/y)
Dust                                                             40,000      10,000       11,000
s02                                                              16,400      7,000         8,000
NOX                                                               3,200       3,000        3,000
Releases to water (t/y)
Oil                                                               2,500         150           175
Suspended Solids                                                  6,000        1,600        1,800
Phosphogypsum                                                   288,000            -            -
I/   Environmental indicators were estimated on the basis of audits. They would be revised upon finalization of the
detailed engineering.



DEKOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
191997      1         1            I           1999                 2000          122001                          2002
ID    Task Nam0 Q3 104 101 102 103 104 101 1Q2 103 104 l01 102 103 I04  la                                                                                     02 103 I04   QI1 102 103 104 I01 102 I03 104IQ
I     huttuidonal en Legr Sttngtheneng (ceonenwnt 11
2          Project hImUp enuelalent M  (PIU)                         '          !    -l
3                Establishment d Prolet kwwnle on Unit
4                Purtxchaseo ctleaeipplies(PIU)
5                Ps.,d,eue of eld vehidls (PUI)
6           "CEDE)*i                                                                                                                                                           
7                E.tabliah  nt dl HCEDD
8                Developmuent operational procdures (IHCEDD)
9          Technical Assistwnce component 1 (xcept Fund)
10               ReUest for Proposa'
11               Cal lor bids
12               Contractor mobsetion ;
13               Develop operationel procedures (DGE.MSP.MPE)
14          Purchae euipmeant
15               Equipment specifications
16               Call lor bds,
17               Equipment instiletwo                                                                                  -
18          Purchase vehicles
19               Vhtcleu spaecficaons 
20               Call for b ds                                                   i
21               Operatoroalisat.on vehicles                                                                            -
22          Training In Aigerta
23                rramng Pt-ns
28                General trining modules
33                Techmol tramumg mod,iles
38          Training abroad
43          Estabtlshrent of aIr monitoring laborl-oies_
44               A-ba. Skikda                                                                                                -
45               Algiers                                                                                                           -
46               Oran                                                                                                                   _
47          Preparation of NEAP
48                Preparation of NEAP
49          Legal and In.ttut1onat FranreworI;
50               Review of legal and regulatory Irfaewor,ik
51               EIA proaedure. and guidelines
52                     Modification of EIA decree
53                     Guidelirnes of sector ELAs                                                                      -
54               Permit system_



1996               1 i997                  1998                      1999                    2000                      000           1         2002           l                      ;4
ID  TaskName                                                                  3Q4 0 1 02 0 Q3 04 0 1 0 02 0 Q3  Q4 04 | 12341 02 0 03  Q4 0 Q10  Q2 0 Q30 1 Q4|                                                                                               0 
55                      Decree on permits
0%
56                      workshop fo legal staff 1997                                                                                 -
57                      Workshop for legal staff 1998                                                                                                  _
58                      Design of permd system (Aneba. Shukda)
59                      Negobabons w entr.prises (Arnaba, Sklkda)                                                                             -
60                      lmplamentabon of permits
61           Health and poll, load assessment and Audits
62                 Heaeh assessment (Algiers)                                                                                        -
63                 Polklt,on toad assesement (Algiers)                                                                                           _
64                 Audits (Algiers)-
65                VWorkshop on fe prgremr (Alg,ors)
66                Health assessment (Orarn)                                                                                                      -
67                 Polluton load assessment (Ofan)                                                                                                            _
68                 AWKs (Oran)
69                 Vorkshop on thr program (Oran)
70           Studt-e
71                 ShortieS on et nsarw-nmental tibitbltes
72                 Studi  on Wlen tedosolbgy
73           Acivabon of pollution fund
74                 Preperaton of TOR                                                     _
75                 C4all for btds                                                              _
76                 Mobaln of eotrdor                                                                 _
77                 Preparaton of operatiorat g.idelinra for NEF
78                 NEF   opwratcrnal
79                 Funcbonomg of NEF
so                 Economic slud                                                       !            _
81                 Organioen   wmigemmnts for FOEPE
82                 FDEPE is operetood
83                 Trairng n FDEPE
84                Furwuga oFDFEPE
85                 hV.iS twsg an FOEPE operaltns_       i;
86                Folw up trnaesg FDEPE rpwaitns is



1996             1997                     1998                     999                   2000           1        2001                   2002
ID  TaskName                                                            Q304|1QQ2 Q3 Q4 Q0 Q20Q30Q4 Q102 0Q3041  Q020Q3|04|01 02|Q|030Q4 T 01  2Q3 0 401
108    ENSIDER
109          Oust removal sinter plant)Iwater treatment
110               Engieermg stud.es
111               Invntation for bids
112               Contract effactrenass                                                                   _
113               Prorurement
114               Transport anrd ustom
115               Site preparation
116               Equipment installation
117               Commrisioninrg
118          Filbn repaacenu fnts
119               Engmnearsng studies
120                invitaton for bids                                                           -
121               Contract efaedicrness                                                            -
122               Procurement
123               Trmnsport r,d cutom
124                Sdo preparabon                                                                                   -
125               Equipmara mstallaion
126               Commi ioneing
127          Eltarcf  erc furnace
128               Enginering studies
129              tlo,falao for bids
130               Conltrac eflcveness
131               Procurement
132               Trensport andr custom
133               Ste propardicn
134               Equipnmen installation
135               Commar,ioningr
136          Rdat. of coke mven, amnonsa distillation &  satewater trat*.
137               Engnesrng studies
138               Invitabon for bids
139               Contract efftveness                                                                    -
140               Procurenmet
142               Sitesprepw aion cuto
143               ErtiaPetrt installation
144               Commksidrwr                                                 ._*_,_._ 



1996              1 991          1       1998            1        1999                    2000                     2001         1         2002- 
ID  Task Name                                                           Q30Q4 Q1 021031Q40Q1 Q2 030I4201 Q2 0304002030400203  040102030401
145    ASMIDAL
146          Phosphate Line
147               Rehabilitation ofhwibo.r Fcility
148                     Delailed Eng,neer,mg
149                     C.n for beds                                                _II
150                     Sne preparabion
151                     Installat,on of Equpment
152                     Comm.ss,oning
153               Import
154                     MAP
155                     Phosphoric Ac,d                                                                  -
156               Demolition sulphuric - phosphonc plants
157                     Clos3we of sltunc acld
158                     Closure of phosphorc acid
159                     Call for bids                                                              -
160                     Deonrtlamrnation * demoltimor,
161               Rehabilitation of NPKS
162                     DeDtaled de,gnt_
163                     Cal for bids
164                     She nehatobfitalion (NPK1)
165                     Equipmenl Instdllat,on (NPK1I)
166                     Commisr anvig (NPK1 ) 
167                     SAe rehabeltabon (NPK2)                                                                           -
168                     Equlpmat Instuliaton (NPK2) 
Commmsioming (NPK2)                                                                                           l
170          Nitrate Line
171               Nitric acid plant
172                     Call fot b,ds                                                          -
173                     Sde preparablon
174                     Rehabrtxaton
176                     COmmisoM,ns.g
176               Arnmonbum nitrat 
177                     Call for bids
176                     Scnebbrostallatbon,_
179                     Commissbmnrg



Annex 7
Page I of 10
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
FINANCIAL VIABILITY AND INTERNALIZATION OF COSTS
1.    Financial projections through the year 2000 support the capacity of ASMIDAL and ENSIDER
to internalize the cost of environmentally-related investments. These projections have been derived
from budgetary estimates for 1996 provided by each enterprise together with assumptions for 1997
onward that take into account, inter alia, sales forecasts based on expected productivity increases and
international price references, as well as the two enterprises' restructuring plans.
ASMIDAL
2.    ASMIDAL's main product lines are NPK (15-15-15 and several other varieties), ammonia, and
nitric acid. In 1995, the company produced 180,000 tons of NPK and 216,000 tons of ammonia. NPK
production will increase by 23.5 percent beginning in 1996 and will level off at 250,000 tons in 1997,
which will represent 76 percent of installed capacity. Ammonia production in 1995 was 240,000 and will
increase by 7.5 percent during 1996. By the end of 1997, production will reach 400,000 tons which will
represent 45 percent of installed capacity. In view of the current favorable conditions in the international
ammonia market coupled with ASMIDAL's installed capacity of 900,000 tons, ASMIDAL is an excellent
position to increase its production for exports as well as for the production of fertilizers to meet local
growing demand.
3.    In 1996, the price per ton of NPK is US$254 and per ton of ammonia US$147.50. The price for
NPK is based on relatively low international prices with 25 percent added to cover the duties that would
be paid by fertilizer importers on the newly liberalized market. Since ammonia is already being exported
by ASMIDAL and is in high demand on the international market, its price per ton has been based on an
equally low reference point (US$120-200).
4.    In 1995, ASMIDAL had gross revenues of DA 4.4 billion (US$82.9 million). Respective
increases of 35 percent in 1996 and 50 percent in 1997 are envisaged and will be essentially due to
ongoing investments in plant and equipment outside the scope of the Bank-assisted project. In 1998, most
of the new assets, including those financed by the Bank, will be operational.
ENSIDER
5.    ENSIDER's main product lines range from slabs (about 50), heavy plates (seven, including
concrete billets), steel pipes (about 20), and molten steel (about 8). The company has about 50 percent
of the heavy plates market, at least until 1997. Prices on this market are free and influenced by
ENSIDER's competitors. The steel for reinforced concrete market is an excellent example of price
liberalization which took place in 1995, for which ENSIDER set its price at about 17,500 dinars
(US$326) per ton (excluding tax) compared with about 18,000 dinars per ton (US$335) (excluding tax)
charged by the private sector.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 10
6.    The company has a virtual monopoly on slabs and by far has the greatest market share of steel
pipes. Its gross revenues have evolved from DA 7.7 billion (US$14.3 million) in 1983 to DA 11.2 billion
(US$20.9 million) in 1990 reaching DA 26.9 billion (IJS$50.0 million) in 1995. It is envisaged that an
increase in gross revenues, in real terms, by 30 percent between 1995 and 1997, based on an annual
production of 1.5 million tons of steel, will allow an increase in capacity utilization to about 70 percent.
Such increase will be the result of the coming on line of new assets being acquired under the company's
present investment program will have been put into operation, to wit the blast furnace, the sintering plant,
and the coke oven.
7.    Notwithstanding the purely environmental nature of the Bank-financed project, which complements
the company's investment program, the elimination of dust from the electric arc furnace will add two
coulees with a total value of approximately DA 720 million (US$13.4 million) per annum
Other Assumptions
8.    Financial projections for the two enterprises are also based on the following assumptions:
(a)    Operating Costs. Personnel costs are expected to rise with inflation, taking into account
staff reduction due to the closure of the sulfuric and phosphoric acid plants in the case of
ASMDAL. Energy, raw materials, and services are proportional to sales less 10 percent,
which has been applied to reflect cost containment and efficiency measures;
(b)    Depreciation Expense. It is assumed that the plant and equipment on average will be
renewed every 20 years; therefore, 5 percent p.a. has been applied to gross fixed assets;
(c)    Debt Service. The present market rate for interest is 21 percent , which is expected
to decrease along with local inflation. Accordingly, the rate of local inflation plus 2
percent has been applied;
(d)    Assets. All new investments are assumed to be part of this project;
(e)    Accounts Receivable. A receivables turnover ratio of about 4.0, i.e., three months of
revenues, is assumed;
(f)   Inventory.  An inventory turnover rate of 2.0, i.e., eight months, is introduced
incrementally; and
(g)    Accounts Payable. Cash flow should be adequate to pay suppliers within four months of
receipt of invoices.
9.    ASMIDAL's and ENSIDER's historical and projected financial statements are presented in the
following tables:



Annex 7
Page 3 of 10
ENSIDER
INCOME STATEMENT
(DA millon)
1993    1994    1995       1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Actual                            Forecast
OPERATING REVENUES
Sales                        19,624  22,595   26,864    32,300  37,736  40,420   46,191   52,600
Services                        341     607      531     1,063    1,120    1,180    1,243    1,310
Other Revenues                1,533     393    1,202     1,329    1,469    1,624    1,795    1,984
Subtotal           21,498   23,594  28,597    34,692  40,325   43,223   49,229   55,895
OPERATING COSTS
Personnel                     3,762   3,837   4,749      4,925   4,973    5,017    5,446   5,684
Energy & Materials           10,553   13,730  15,915    20,883  20,693   22,706   24,578   28,608
Services                      1,115   1,608    1,604     2,812    1,992   2,352    2,263    2,939
Business Taxes                  559     821      820     1,025   1,115    1,178    1,234    1,380
Miscellaneous                   148     150      243       150     150      150     181      170
Subtotal           16,137  20,146  23,331    29,795   28,923   31,403   33,702  38,781
Depreciation                  1,363   3,404   3,829      3,525   3,783   3,986    4,039   4,042
Total Operating Costs        17,500  23,550  27,160    33,320  32,706  35,389   37,741   42,823
Net Revenue                   3,998      44   1,437      1,372   7,619   7,834   11,489   13,071
Less: Interest               (1,492)   (714)  (3,238)   (4,054)  (3,412)  (3,138)  (2,946)  (2,420)
Non-Operating Revenues         (804)  (1,690)  (1,226)                -        -       -        -
Profit Before Tax             1,702  (2,360)  (3,027)   (2,682)   4,207    4,696    8,543   10,651
Income Tax                         -       -       -          -   1,388    1,550   2,819   3,515
Net Profit                    1,702  (2,360)  (3,027)   (2,682)   2,818   3,146    5,724   7,136



Annex 7
Page 4 of 10
ENSIDER
STATEMENT OF SOURCES AND USES
(DA million)
1993    1994    1995       1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Actual                             Forecast
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Operating Income
before Depreciation           4,557    1,758    4,040     4,897   11,402   11,820   15,528   17,114
Borrowings                     4,198    8,240    2,676     4,921    2,542    3,023    1,061     67
Recapitalizationl Debt Restructuri  -  13,000        -         -        -        -        -
Total Sources                  8,755   22,998    6,716     9,818   13,944   14,844   16,589   17,181
USE OF FUNDS
Investments                    1,651    3,122    2,973     6,151    3,178    3,779    1,326     84
increase/Decrease in Working Ca    1,459   15,009   (3,649)    (4,541)   3,201    3,773    8,163   10,523
Debt Service
Interest                      1,492     714    3,238     4,054    3,412    3,138    2,946    2,420
Principal                     4,153    4,153    4,153    4,153    4,153    4,153    4,153    4,153
Total Uses                     8,755   22,998    6,716     9,818   13,944   14,844   16,589   17,181



Annex 7
Page 5 of 10
ENSIDER
BALANCE SHEET
(DA million)
1993    1994    1995       1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Actual                             Forecast
ASSETS
Fixed Assets              83,542   83,831   86,804    92,955   96,133   99,912  101,238  101,322
Less: Accumulated
Depreciation            (44,313) (45,676) (49,505)   (53,030) (56,813) (60,799) (64,838) (68,880)
Net Fixed Assets          39,230   38,155   37,299    39,925   39,320   39,113   36,400   32,442
Current Assets
Cash                      2,234       0    1,860        146    1,078    1,784    6,268   17,994
Accounts Receivable       6,593    7,047    7,149     8,673   10,081   10,806   12,307   13,974
Other Debtors               434     434      434        434     434      434      434     434
Inventory                13,028   13,028   13,028    13,028   13,028   13,354   15,487   13,071
Subtotal                  22,289   20,509   22,471    22,281   24,621   26,377   34,497   45,472
TOTAL ASSETS              61,519   58,664   59,770    62,206   63,941   65,491   70,897   77,914
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Equity                    21,884   33,650   30,623    27,941   32,148   36,844   45,387   56,038
Long- and Medium-Term
Debt                     18,614   20,781   19,304    20,071   18,460   17,330   14,237   10,151
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable          4,301    2,067    7,777    10,180    9,641    7,851    8,425    9,695
Current Maturities        3,720    2,165    2,066     4,014    3,692    3,466    2,847    2,030
Overdraft                13,000
Subtotal                  21,021    4,232   9,843    14,194   13,333   11,317   11,273   11,725
TOTAL LIABILITIES
& EQUITY                 61,519   58,664   59,770    62,206   63,941   65,491   70,897   77,914



Annex 7
Page 6 of 10
ENSIDER
FINANCIAL RATIOS
(DA million)
1993     1994     1995       1996     1997     1998     1999     2000
Actual                               Forecast
Current Ratio                      0.4      2.3       2.3        1.6      1.8      2.3      3.1      3.9
Quick Ratio                        0.2      0.6       1.0        0.7      0.9      1.2      1.7      2.8
Receivables Turnover               6.5      3.5      4.0        4.4      4.3      4.1      4.3      4.3
Collection Ratio (months)           4        3         3          3        3        3        3        3
Inventory Turnover                 1.5      1.1      1.2        1.6      1.6      1.7      1.7      2.0
Months to Sell                     14       11        10         7         8        7        7        6
Profit Margin                      9%       0%       0%         0%       7%        8%      12%      14%
Operating Ratio                   81%     100%      95%        96%      81%       82%      77%      77%
Working Ratio                     75%      85%      82%        86%      72%       73%      68%      69%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio        0.9      0.7      0.7        0.6      1.5      1.6      2.2      2.6
Debt/Debt & Equity                 0%      38%      39%        42%      36%       32%      24%      15%



Annex 7
Page 7 of 10
ASMIDAL
INCOME STATEMENT
(DA million)
1993    1994    1995        1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Actual                              Forecast
OPERATING REVENUES
Sales                          2,460    3,569    3,565     5,214    7,845    9,156    9,522    9,828
Services                          16       62      47         28       36       45      46       48
Other Revenues                     4       14      815        89      116      142      148     153
Subtotal                       2,480    3,645    4,427     5,331    7,997    9,343    9,717   10,029
OPERATING COSTS
Personnel                        809      783      846       840      817      879     927      978
Energy & Materials             1,878    1,947    1,672     2,844    3,518    3,940    4,157    4,385
Services                         238      189     220         85      111      136      144     152
Business Taxes                    72      119      89        103      122      131     138      146
Miscellaneous                     59       55      52         80      104      128      135     143
Subtotal                       3,056    3,093    2,879     3,954    4,672    5,214    5,501    5,804
Depreciation                   1,895    1,701    1,630      1,650    1,016    1,096    1,161    1,178
Total Operating Costs          4,951    4,794    4,509     5,604    5,688    6,310    6,663    6,982
Net Revenue                    (2,471)  (1,149)    (82)     (273)   2,309    3,033    3,054    3,047
Less: Interest                  (794)   (750)  (1,435)    (1,473)   (964)  (1,139)  (1,124)  (1,066)
Non-Operating Revenues          (260)   (188)  (1,698)                   -
Profit Before Tax              (3,525)  (2,087)  (3,215)    (1,745)   1,345    1,894    1,930    1,982
Income Tax                          -        -       -          -    444       625     637      654
Net Profit                    (3,525)  (2,087)  (3,215)    (1,745)    901    1,269    1,293    1,328



Annex 7
Page 8 of 10
ASMIDAL
STATEMENT OF SOURCES AND USES
(DA million)
1993    1994    1995        1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Actual                              Forecast
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Operating Income
before Depreciation             (836)    364    (151)      1,378    2,881    3,504    3,578    3,571
Borrowings                     14,000    7,300    4,534       993    2,167    1,274    1,051      326
Recapitalization/Debt Restructurin              20,142
Total Sources                  13,164    7,664   24,526     2,371    5,048    4,777    4,630    3,897
USE OF FUNDS
Investments                      182       86         -     1,046    2,408    1,592    1,314     407
Increase/Decrease in Working Ca   11,171    6,553   12,396  (1,317)    543      682      798    1,059
Debt Service
Interest                        794      750    1,435      1,473      964    1,139    1,124    1,066
Principal                      1,017     275   10,695      1,169    1,134    1,364    1,394    1,365
Total Uses                     13,164    7,664   24,526     2,371    5,048    4,777    4,630    3,897



Annex 7
Page 9 of 10
ASMIDAL
BALANCE SHEET
(DA million)
1993    1994    1995       1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Actual                             Forecast
ASSETS
Fixed Assets              20,229   17,065   17,065    18,111   20,519   22,111   23,426   23,833
Less: Accumulated
Depreciation            (12,994) (11,450) (13,093)   (14,744) (15,760) (16,856) (18,017) (19,195)
Net Fixed Assets           7,235    5,615    3,972     3,367   4,759    5,256    5,409    4,638
Current Assets
Cash                          0        0    1,209     3,469   2,531    3,510   3,727    5,074
Accounts Receivable         724    1,746     661      1,333    1,999    2,336    3,239    3,343
Other Debtors                  -        -    811        246     246      246      246     246
Inventory                 1,327    1,639    2,271     1,422    2,111    1,970    1,860    1,726
Subtotal                   2,051    3,385    4,952     6,471    6,887    8,062    9,073   10,390
TOTAL ASSETS               9,286    8,999    8,923     9,838   11,646   13,318   14,482   15,028
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Equity                       653  (16,697)  (3,587)    2,747    3,648    4,917    6,210    7,538
Long- and Medium-Term
Debt                        900    8,201    5,844     5,668    6,701    6,611    6,268    5,229
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable          5,489    6,800    4,913     1,318    1,168    1,304    1,375    1,451
Current Maturities          275     -        584        105      129     487      628      810
Overdraft                 1,969   10,695    1,169          -       -        -        -
Subtotal                   7,733   17,495    6,666     1,423    1,297    1,790    2,003    2,261
TOTAL LIABILITIES
& EQUITY                  9,286    8,999    8,923     9,838   11,646   13,318   14,482   15,028



Annex 7
Page 10 of 10
ASMIDAL
FINANCIAL RATIOS
(DA million)
1993     1994     1995       1996     1997     1998     1999     2000
Actual                               Forecast
Current Ratio                     0.3       0.2      0.7        4.5      5.3      4.5      4.5      4.6
Quick Ratio                       0.1       0.1      0.4        3.5      3.7      3.4      3.6      3.8
Receivables Turnover               3.4      2.9      1.7        3.9      3.4      2.9      2.4      2.0
Collection Ratio (months)           3        2         7          4        4        4        3        3
Inventory Turnover                 1.2      1.3      0.9        1.5      2.0      1.9      2.2      2.4
Months to Sell                     10        9        14          8        6        6        6        5
Profit Margin                      0%       0%       0%         0%       11%      14%      14%      14%
Operating Ratio                  200%     132%     102%       105%      71%       68%      69%      70%
Working Ratio                    123%      85%      65%        74%      58%       56%      57%      58%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio        0.0      0.5      0.1        0.5      1.6      1.6      1.7       1.7
Debt/Debt & Equity                58%       0%       0%       *67%      65%       57%      50%      41%



Annex 8
Page I of 4
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
HIEALTH COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
A. General Overview
1.     Two different evaluations were considered. 'rhe first one compares the costs of asthma treatment in
Annaba given different assumptions about prevalence (i.e., number of cases). The other one is based on a
dose-response model that measures the impact of change in pollution levels on some public health indicators.'
T he tNvo models give similar results for the direct health costs related to pollution.
B. Comparative Evaluation of Asthma Cost
2.     The cost of asthma treatment with present level of prevalence (i.e., 1.67 percent) is compared to the
cost of lreatment if prevalence equals the national figure (i.e., 0.80 percent). The assumption is that asthma
prevalence is high in Annaba, compared with national average level, because of pollution. The total cost of
asthma treatment with the present prevalence is DA 488.06 million. The total cost with national prevalence
is DA 233.82 million. Therefore, provided the asthma prevalence in Annaba were reduced to the national
average level, the annual benefit from reduced cost of treatment would be DA 254.24 million (US$4.73
rnillion) (see Table 1).
Table 1: Comparison of Asthma Treatment Costs (1995 prices)
With Pollution       Without Pollution       Benefit
Prevalence                           1.67 percent          0.80 percent
Number of Cases                        8925                  4276                  4649
COST (Million DA)
Treatment and Surveillance            178.48                  81.67                88.81
Emergencies                            12.30                   5.90                 6.40
Hospitalization                       30 5.29                146.25               159.04
[Thtal    -         -   -  -          488.06                 233.82               254.24
B. Ostro, "Estimating the Health Effects of Air Pollutants," The World Bank, Policy Research Department,
1994.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 4
C. Utilization of the Dose-Response Model
3.     The dose-response model gives the annual number of cases, for some pubiic health indicators,
directly linked with levels of pollution exceeding the WHO standards. The study was used to calculate the
health cost due to pollution with Total Suspended Particles (TSP) in the wilaya of Annaba (Tables 2 and
3).
Table 2: TSP Concentration
Cities or neighborhoods of       Population     Measured TSP (,g7m-3    TSP concentratiorTin
Annaba urban area                                                           excess of WHO
standards
(80 ttg/m3)
El Bouni                          107 000                316                     236
Darraji Errdjem                    13 000                365                     285
Sidi Amar (without D.             71 000                  130                     50
Errjem) and El Hadjar                                 (Sid Amar)
Exposed Areas of Annaba           136 000                 154                     74
(Annaba-center)
Unexposed and Calm Areas          136 000                 137                     57
of Annaba                                           (Annaba-Kouba)                            l
Total                             463 000          WHO standard: 80
Table 3: Impact Factors of the Dose-Response Model
Public health indicators                   Impact factors of 10 yg/n3 change
in TSP(dose-response)
Mortality                                              4.9            / 100 000   people
Respiratory Hospital Admissions                        12             / 100 000   people
Emergency Room Visits                                235.4            / 100 000   people
Restricted Activity Days                            57,500            / 100 000   people
Asthma Attacks                                      32,600            / 100 000 asthmatics
Respiratory Symptoms (days with)                   183,000            ' 100 000   people
Chronic Bronchitis                                    61.2            / 100 000   people
4.     The unit costs and total cost were then calculated. The total cost represents the benefit for society if
TSP pollution is reduced from the present level to WHO standards. Conversely, this cost is paid by society
as long as nothing is done to reduce pollution.  If particulate matter is not reduced fromn present levels to
WHO standards, it is expected that 246 deaths. 2.9 million restricted activity days and 27,300 asthma attacks
will occur every year. Morbidity alone amounts to an annual social cost of DA 1 .4 billion (US$25.7 million).
The cost breaksdown into direct cost (i.e., cost of treatment of diseases due to pollution: DA 514 million, or
US$9.6 million) and indirect cost (i.e., cost of lost production for society because of restricted activity days:
DA 868.4 million, or US$16.2 million) (see Table 4).



Annex 8
Page 3 of 4
Table 4: Morbidity Cost
Annual              Intermediate calculations              Annual cost
cases                                                      (M DA)
DIRECT COSTS
Respiratory Hospital       603        x DA 27,429/hosp. day x 12 days/stay           198.8
Admission
Emergency Room            1183                x DA 787/emergency                       9.3
Visits
Asthma Attacks          27 378       x DA 9,114/attack x 6 attacks/patient/year      248.8
Respiratory          9 202 613          x DA 6.2 (self treatment)/symptom             56.5
Symptoms
Sub-total                                                                            513.6
INDIRECT COST
Restricted Activity  2 891 531             x DA 300 (GNP/person/day)                 868.4
Days                                                                                          l
TOTAL                                                                               1382.0
5.     Given an annual population increase rate of 2 percent in Annaba, the total cost for ten years is DA 15.1
billion (US$281.8 million). With a discount rate of 15 percent, the net present value for ten years is DA 8.5
billion (US$159.0 million). Furthermore, the real social cost is probably higher since calculations were limited
to TSP only (lowered to WHO standard level) and mortality has not been evaluated (see Table 5).
Table 5: Total Cost After 10 Years
Annual Cost         Total Cost             Discounted Total Cost
1st year          after 10 years            after 10 years
Million DA          Million DA                 Million DA
DIRECT COSTS
Respiratory Hospital              198.8              2,176.4                     1,228.5
Admissions
Emergency Room Visits               9.3                102.1                       57.6
Asthma Attacks                    248.8              2724.6                      1,537.9
Respiratory Symptoms               56.6                620.2                      351.0
Sub-total                         513.6              5623.3                      3174.1
INDIRECT COSTS
Restricted Activity Days          868.4             9,509.9                      5367.4
TOTAL                            1382.0            15,132.3                      8,541.5
D. Economic Analysis of the Pilot Investments Component
4.     The economic evaluation of the pilot investments component of the project includes savings in



Annex 8
Page 4 of 4
health costs and productivity losses as the primary benefit, as well as improvements in production capacity
and quality, as a by-product. Clearly, because all the benefits are not quantifiable, economic rates of return
(ERR) cannot be usefully determined for each enterprise. In the case of ENSIDER, although all the
investments are end-of-pipe, dust reduction alone will allow for more efficient use of the electric arc
furnace, resulting in productivity enhancement valued at well over US$6.0 million; thus, the economic
justification of the investment is based mostly on improvements in environmental quality. Since ENSIDER
contributes about 90 percent of TSP, this corresponds to an ERR of 49 percent using ENSIDER
investment cost and a yearly benefit stream of 90 percent of total social cost plus productivity gains.
In the case of ASMIDAL, the project's environmental benefits cannot all be estimated, particularly
those related to ecological impacts of phosphogypsum pollution. However, avoided TSP pollution and
process efficiency (mostly in the form of product losses avoided) are used to compute an ERR of 29
percent. Table 6 summarizes key elements of the cost-benefit analysis.
Table 6: Sub-Projects Benefits and Costs
(US$ Million, base year 1996)
Net Present Value of Benefits   Source of Difference
Sub-Projects2        Costs3        and Costs4
Economic      Financial     Taxes          Health
ASMIDAL               35.0         37.2            17.2         9.5            10.5
ENSIDER               32.5         73.2           -27.6         6.7            94.0
Rate of Return
ASMIDAL Sub-project                29%             19%
ENSIDER Sub-project                49%            -8%
2  See paras. 22, 28 and 29 of Annex I for details of the sub-projects.
3  Excluding taxes.
4  The applied discount rate is 12 percent.






2                                 0                                 2                                  46                                                                  8'
ALGERIA                                                                                                                                    A  bkdo  A
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT                                                     ALGERS
/vJn X 2 xbe t et ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~< |~~~~~~ 
, _ { /   W           \S                       \                         A               X            X                SP X                                       C   'l t~~A D 
-36
To Ou,;do ) *   EIemcern  I              *nd   
\ ,                         t                               X                    J                                               A                                    i', B.
2  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
~~~~34   i   V   v)(            <            /                                                  \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>   (  34-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T Gh. \~ ,T,, A,,9                                                                                   T,, Elt 0-ydh ~ 'Lnhut
WILAYA NAMES
ADRAR                  El BAYADH            OIJARGLA                     PROJECT LOCATIONS FOR                         PAVED NATIONAL ROAD          35                OA,,IRS         1
AIN DEFLA              EL OUED              OUM FL RUJAGHI                POLLUTION CONTROL                            AIRPORTS                                     A GIERS   !
A N TEMOUC)JFNT        RL TAPF              REIZA                        HAZARDOUS WASTE COLLECTION                      R     -
ALGIERS                GHARDAIA             SAIDA                                                                      WILAYA HEADQUARTERS
ANNABA                 GIFLMA               S[TIF                   *    INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                                          _ NATIONAL CAPITAL  J
BATNA                   LLIZI               SIDI BEI- ABBES          | pi                                               AINLCPTL                          V            l3o. 
EFCHAR                 JIJEL                SKIKDA                        OR1S                                         WILAYA BOUNDARIES                                 I A
BEJAIA                  KHENCHELA           SOUK AHRAS                                                                 I       O         B                    AdI
BISKRA                  LAGHOUAT            TAMANGHASSET                                                         -     INTERNATONAL BOUNDARIES    K                                 j
BL!E                    MASCARA             TEBESSA
BOFDJ 'IT ARRERIDJ     MFDEA                T!ARET                                                                                                  -
BOUIRA                  MILA                TINDOUF
HOUMERDES               MOSTAGANEM          TIPAZA              Th, bo.-dn,- cTh,                             0        SD5     100      1 5.                       I 
LHLEF                   MSII A              TISSEMSILI                   -r  o--    /hL pno ni Th, W-,k,d Rm5   I       I        I        I                          \      5  -
LONSTANTINE             NAAt.;A             TIZI 015 ')LU       !or         .,. rhi heLoorolo,,5   .                                      I
b-o', ds Lo--        ~                    KILOMETFRS                                                      F
'FA                  ORAi.               lIFMCEN






NORTHEASTERN ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
PROJECT LOCATIONS                                                                 'vVe: ;rc:n':q.
02
Chetaibi
_37n                       Collo 0                                                                                                                                      37,
Skikdda                                                 Seraidi 0      *  Annaba
Tamalousw                          t                                  Berraa               _El Bouni_    SMDA
t   {   /  )                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sidi Amortr
El =Milia                                                                                                                              -, Ha jar  en Mehdi
5                         ~~~~~~~~~El ArrouckX5    Es Sebt       *                         Ain Berda i 
(3Mila                                                                                                          B  /_ouchegou<
9 2 G~~~~~~~~~~~uelma 
Constantine                                                                                          \ 
t                        C ~~~~~~~~El Khroub                                 0 o      s 1  1o    5  20  25             Su-A  rasX
KILOMETERS
PROJECT LOCATIONS FOR                               PAVED NATIONAL ROAD                                                - -
POLLUTION CONTROL                                                                                                                      I ./
.             >q   ~~~~~AIRPORTS                                                                        A    .
ENTERPRISES POLLUTION                               A                                           Iht boundoes coloe.
*   ABATEMENT INVESTMENT                           0    SELECTED TOWNS                               dteer    yoh  ce oey
A    HAZARDOUS DISPOSAL AND STORAGE                (e)   WILAYA HEADQUARTERS                               ep, -e hot
-~piy.  -r  Iho O, i CI 
VILLAGES EXPOSED TO                                 WILAYA BOUNDARIES                           U'e W   -d    t fegol  N
r    INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION                         _   _  INIERNAFIONAL BOUJNDARIES                   sIntUs o     " Coy teItrv.
VILLAGES NOT EXPOSED TO                                                                         o.
Ct                               INDUSTR!AL POI LUTION                                                                           bod..,d; ,          c .
_            __                -  - _      _     _  _      _            L      _      _     _      _      _      _     _      _      _          -









IMAGING
Report No:       14495 AL
Type: SAP



