Page  1
 Conformed copy
LOAN NUMBER 4034 AL
ASMIDAL Project Agreement
(Industrial Pollution Control Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ENTREPRISE NATIONALE DES ENGRAIS ET DES
PRODUITS PHYTOSANITAIRES
Dated June 19, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4034 AL
ASMIDAL PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ENTREPRISE NATIONALE DES ENGRAIS ET DES PRODUITS 
PHYTOSANITAIRES (ASMIDAL).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Democratic 
and Popular Republic of Algeria (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy 
eight million dollars ($78,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that ASMIDAL agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and ASMIDAL, an amount equivalent to thirty five million dollars ($35,000,000) out of 
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to 
ASMIDAL on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS ASMIDAL, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ASMIDAL declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for Part B of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the 
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. ASMIDAL shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of its obligations under 
the ASMIDAL Project Agreement and Part B of the Project.
Section 2.04. ASMIDAL shall duly perform all its obligations under the ASMIDAL 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ASMIDAL shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving said Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ASMIDAL shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the ASMIDAL Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
(b)
ASMIDAL shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by ASMIDAL of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the ASMIDAL Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. ASMIDAL shall, not later than December 31, 1997, take all action 
necessary on its part to carry out the activities referred to under Part B.1 of the 
Project with respect to ASMIDAL's sulfuric acid plant.
Section 2.07. ASMIDAL shall, not later than June 30, 1998, take all action 
necessary on its part to carry out the activities referred to under Part B.1 of the 
Project with respect to ASMIDAL's phosphoric acid plant.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ASMIDAL
Section 3.01. ASMIDAL shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and industrial practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ASMIDAL shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. ASMIDAL shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Page  3
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ASMIDAL shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
ASMIDAL shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than nine (9) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ASMIDAL undertakes 
to maintain a debt service coverage ratio pursuant to which the net revenues of 
ASMIDAL for each Fiscal Year shall be equal to, or greater than, one and one-half 
(1.5) times ASMIDAL's debt service requirements during such Year.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the ASMIDAL maturing by 
its terms more than one (1) year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.  
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
Page  4
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of ASMIDAL 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify ASMIDAL thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other  address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
For ASMIDAL:
Entreprise Nationale des Engrais
  et des Produits Phytosanitaires
P.O. Box 326
Annaba 23000
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Telex:
81606
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ASMIDAL may be 
taken or executed by its Director General or such other person or persons as its 
Director General shall designate in writing, and ASMIDAL shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  5
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Daniel Ritchie
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
ENTREPRISE NATIONALE DES ENGRAIS
  ET DES PRODUITS PHYTOSANITAIRES
By /s/ Ramtane Lamamra
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Works estimated to cost $3,000,000 equivalent or less per contract and 
$4,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
 
Goods to be financed under Category (2) (c) estimated to cost $3,800,000 
equivalent in total, and spare parts estimated to cost $3,400,000 equivalent in total, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  6
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each civil work contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more and goods contracts estimated to cost $300,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review 
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
