Page  1
February 19, 1999
His Excellency Mr. Abdelkrim Harchaoui 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Immeuble Mauretania Algiers 
Democratic and Popular
  Republic of Algeria
Mr. Hocine Metouchi 
President 
Director General 
Entreprise Nationale des Engrais
  Et des Produits Phytosanitaires 
P.O. Box 326, Annaba 2300 
Democratic and Popular
  Republic of Algeria
Mr. S. Tahari 
Director 
General Entreprise Nationale de Siderurgie 
P.O. Box 342, Annaba 2300 
Democratic and Popular
  Republic of Algeria
Algeria:
Loan Number 4034-AL
Industrial Pollution Control Project
Amendment to Legal Agreements    
Excellency Abdelkrim Harchaoui and Messrs. Metouchi and Tahari:
We refer to the Loan Agreement ("Agreement") dated June 19, 1996 entered into 
between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the "Bank") and the 
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria ("Algeria"), to the ASMIDAL Project 
Agreement ("ASMIDAL Agreement") of even date therewith entered into between the Bank 
and the Entreprise Nationale des Engrais et des Produits Phytosanitaires ("ASMIDAL"), 
and to the ENSIDER Project Agreement ("ENSIDER Agreement") also of even date therewith 
entered into between the Bank and the Entreprise Nationale de Siderurgie ("ENSIDER"), 
all in respect of the Industrial Pollution Control Project ("Project"). We also refer 
to the recent project restructuring aide memoire, dated November 27, 1998, and to the 
Algerian Government’s request (ref. 1846 ME/DGRFE) dated December 16, 1998, to amend 
the legal agreements for the Project to reflect the restructuring of the Project.
Therefore, by the present, the Loan Agreement and the ASMIDAL Agreement are 
hereby amended as follows:
(i)
Section 2.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement is revised to read as 
follows:
"The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
the following separate special deposit accounts in the Banque d’Algerie on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, or in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment: (i) one such account for 
Part A of the Project (the DGE Special Account); (ii) one such account for 
Part B of the Project (the ASMIDAL Special Account); (iii) one such account 
for Part C of the Project (the ENSIDER Special Account. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement."
(ii)
The limit date appearing in Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement is 
modified to become "January 1, 2001" instead of "January 1, 1999".
(iii)
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement is deleted in its entirety and is 
replaced by a new Schedule 5 to read as set forth in Annex I 
attached to this amendment letter and forming an integral part 
thereof.
Page  2
(iv)
The table set forth in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement is modified to read as follows:
(v)
Part B in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement describing the Project 
is revised as follows: the term "decontamination" is deleted from 
Sub-Part B (1) and replaced by the phrase "cessation of 
operation"; Sub-Part B (2) is deleted in its entirety; the phrase 
"a scrubber or a" is deleted from Sub-Part B (4); and Sub-Parts B 
(3) 
through B (7) are re-numbered Sub-Parts B (2) through B (6).
(vi)
Part C in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement describing the Project 
is revised as follows: Part C (1) is revised to read as follows: 
"Installation of dust removal systems for the coke ovens and blast 
furnaces, and installation of equipment for ammonium distillation 
and disulfurization"; and Sub-Part C (2) is modified to read 
"Provision of equipment for the construction of wastewater 
treatment plants".
(vii)
Part C (1) of the Schedule to the ASMIDAL Agreement is deleted in 
its entirety.
(viii)Part C (2) of the Schedule to the ASMIDAL Agreement, setting the 
thresholds on the procurement of goods in accordance with 
international shopping procedures, is renumbered Part C (1) and 
revised to read as follows:
"Goods to be financed under Category (2) (c) estimated to cost the 
equivalent of five million one hundred thousand dollars ($5,100,000) in total, 
and spare parts estimated to cost the equivalent of six million five hundred 
thousand dollars ($6,500,000) in total, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines."
Please confirm your official agreement to the foregoing, as the authorized 
representatives of Algeria, ASMIDAL and ENSIDER under the legal agreements, 
respectively, by duly signing and dating the corresponding form of confirmation below 
and returning this amendment letter to us at your earliest convenience. A signed 
triplicate original of this amendment letter is enclosed herewith for each of 
Algeria’s, ASMIDAL’s and ENSIDER’s official records.  This amendment letter shall 
become effective as of the date it has been fully executed by each party thereto.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Paolo B. Zacchia
Acting Country Director
Maghreb Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR
  REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By /s/ Abdelkrim Harchaoui
Authorized Representative
Date: April 18, 1999
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
ENTREPRISE NATIONALE DES
ENTREPRISE NATIONALE
  ENGRAIS ET DES PRODUITS
  DE SIDERURGIE
  PHYTOSANITAIRES
Page  3
By /s/ Hocine Metouchi
By /s/ Slimane Tahari
Authorized Representative
 Authorized Representative
Date: April 7, 1999
Date: April 14, 1999
ANNEX I TO AMENDENT LETTER DATED FEBRUARY 19, 1999
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term "Eligible Categories" means: (i) in respect of the DGE Special 
Account, Categories (2) (a), and (3) (a); (ii) in respect of the ASMIDAL Special 
Account, Categories (2) (b), (2) (c) and (3) (c); and (iii) in respect of the ENSIDER 
Special Account, Categories (2) (d) and (3) (c).
(b)
The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
The term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of:
(i)
the DGE Special Account, an amount equivalent to seven hundred 
thousand dollars ($700,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the DGE Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to four hundred thousand dollars 
($400,000) until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account allocated to Categories (2) (a), and (3) (a), plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for 
Part A of the Project, shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of three million five hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000);
(ii)
the ASMIDAL Special Account, an amount equivalent to two million 
three hundred thousand dollars ($2,300,000) to be withdrawn from 
the Loan Account and deposited into the ASMIDAL Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, 
that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to one million 
three hundred thousand dollars ($1,300,000) until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to 
Categories (2) (b), (2) (c) and (3) (c), plus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part B of 
the Project, shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of ten 
million dollars ($10,000,000); and
(iii)
the ENSIDER Special Account, an amount equivalent to two million 
two hundred thousand dollars ($2,200,000) to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account and deposited into the ENSIDER Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, 
that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to one million 
two hundred thousand dollars ($1,200,000) until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to 
Categories (2) (d) and (3) (c), plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part C of the 
Project, shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of  ten 
million dollars ($10,000,000).
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
Page  4
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective Eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
If, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
If the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
If, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
Page  5
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
