Page  1
 Conformed copy
LOAN NUMBER 4034 AL
Loan Agreement
(Industrial Pollution Control Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 19, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4034 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1996, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts B and C of the Project will be carried out, respectively, by 
ASMIDAL and ENSIDER (as these terms are defined in Sections 1.02 of this Agreement), 
all with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will 
relend an amount equivalent to thirty five million dollars ($35,000,000) out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, as provided in this Agreement, to ASMIDAL and an amount 
equivalent to thirty two million five hundred thousand dollars  ($32,500,000) out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, as provided in this Agreement, to ENSIDER;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, and in the ASMIDAL Project Agreement and the ENSIDER Project Agreement (as 
these terms are defined in Section 1.02 of this Agreement), both of which are of even 
date herewith;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: 
(a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not 
a 
member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for 
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Bank, 
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken  under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ASMIDAL" means Entreprise Nationale des Engrais et des Produits 
Phytosanitaires, the Borrower's National Fertilizer Enterprise, an autonomous public 
enterprise established pursuant to Decree No. 84-258 of the Borrower, dated September 
1, 1984, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(b)
"ENSIDER" means Entreprise Nationale de Sid rurgie, the Borrower's 
National Iron and Steel Enterprise, an autonomous public enterprise established 
pursuant to Decree No. 83-628 of the Borrower, dated November 5, 1983, as the same may 
be amended from time to time;
(c)
"Enterprises" means, collectively, ASMIDAL and ENSIDER; and "Enterprise" 
means, individually, either one of the Enterprises;
(d)
"Basic Legislation" means the Decrees referred to in paragraphs (a) and 
(b) of this Section, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(e)
"respective Part of the Project" means, in the case of: (i) DGE (as this 
term is hereafter defined), Part A of the Project; (ii) ASMIDAL, Part B of the 
Project; and (iii) ENSIDER, Part C of the Project;
(f)
"ASMIDAL Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and 
ASMIDAL of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term shall include all schedules and agreements supplemental to the ASMIDAL Project 
Agreement;
(g)
"ENSIDER Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and 
ENSIDER of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term shall include all schedules and agreements supplemental to the ENSIDER Project 
Agreement;
(h)
"Project Agreements" means, collectively, the ASMIDAL Project Agreement 
and the ENSIDER Project Agreement; and "Project Agreement" means, individually, either 
one of the Project Agreements;
(i)
"ASMIDAL Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and ASMIDAL pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term shall 
include all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(j)
"ENSIDER Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and ENSIDER pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term shall 
include all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
Page  3
(k)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, the ASMIDAL Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement and the ENSIDER Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement" means, individually, either one of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(l)
"Subsidiary Loans" means the loans provided for under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements;
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(n)
"MICLE" means Ministre de l'Intrieur, des Collectivits Locales et de 
l'Environnement, the Borrower's Ministry of Interior, Local Authorities and 
Environment, which comprises the State Secretariat responsible for the Environment;
(o)
"DGE" means Direction Gnrale de l'Environnement, the Borrower's General 
Directorate for the Environment within MICLE;
(p)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established within DGE;
 
(q)
"NEF" means Fonds National de l'Environnement, the Borrower's National 
Environment Fund established pursuant to Section 189 of the Budget Law of the Borrower 
for Fiscal Year 1992, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(r)
"Banque d'Algrie" means the Bank of Algeria, the Borrower's central bank, 
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 1990, as the same 
may be amended from time to time;
(s)
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower covering the twelve 
(12) month period commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31;
(t)
"Category" means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(u)
"Wilaya" means an administrative division of the Borrower organized 
pursuant to the Borrower's Wilaya Law (Loi Relative la Wilaya), No. 90-09, dated April 
7, 1990, as the same may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of seventy-eight million 
dollars ($78,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Banque d'Algrie on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
Page  4
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six (6) months or the second six months 
of a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six (6) months' 
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be 
amended to read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal 
to the 
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest 
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 
15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part A of the Project through DGE with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, economic, financial and environmental practices 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project; and
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause 
each of ASMIDAL and ENSIDER to perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of its respective Project Agreement, all the 
obligations of ASMIDAL and ENSIDER therein set forth, shall cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable each of ASMIDAL and ENSIDER to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) (i) of this 
Section, and in order to facilitate the efficient carrying out of the Project, the 
Borrower shall maintain PIU, within DGE, with competent staff in adequate numbers, to 
Page  5
perform the day-to-day management functions of Part A of the Project, and to 
coordinate and report on the execution of Parts B and C of the Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend: (i) to ASMIDAL, out of the proceeds of the 
Loan an amount equivalent to thirty five million dollars ($35,000,000), or such other 
amount as may be allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2) (b), (2) (c) and 
(3) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(ii) to ENSIDER, out of the proceeds of the Loan an amount equivalent to thirty two 
million five hundred thousand dollars ($32,500,000), or such other amount as may be 
allocated from time to time to Categories (2) (d) and (3) (c) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in each case under a subsidiary loan 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Enterprise, under terms and 
conditions which shall be acceptable to the Bank including those agreed and stipulated 
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts B and C 
of the Project shall be carried out, respectively, by ASMIDAL pursuant to Section 2.03 
of the ASMIDAL Project Agreement and ENSIDER pursuant to Section 2.03 of the ENSIDER 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Bank (i) on a quarterly basis, commencing not 
later than July 1, 1997, a report on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and (ii) 
not later than February 1, 2001, or such later date as the Bank shall request, a 
mid-term report, integrating the results of the monitoring activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said mid-term report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Enterprises and the Bank, not later than July 1, 2001, or 
such later date as the Bank shall request, the mid-term report referred to in 
paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said mid-term report and 
the Bank's views on the matter.
ARTICLE IV
Page  6
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part A of the Project, of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out Part A of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than nine (9) months after the end of each Fiscal Year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. In order to achieve the objectives of Part A.4 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall, not later than January 1, 1999, take all action necessary on its part 
to expand the powers of NEF to include the authority to finance investments in the 
areas of pollution control and environmental protection. 
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause to be taken all measures to enable 
ASMIDAL to carry out those obligations of ASMIDAL provided for under Sections 2.06 and 
2.07 of the ASMIDAL Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Either Enterprise shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under its respective Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that either Enterprise will be able to perform its obligations under its respective 
Project Agreement.
Page  7
(c)
The Basic Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of either 
Enterprise to perform any of its obligations under its respective Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of either Enterprise or for the 
suspension of its operations. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have been 
executed on behalf of each of the parties thereto.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
(a)
that the ASMIDAL Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by ASMIDAL and is legally binding upon ASMIDAL in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the ENSIDER Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by ENSIDER and is legally binding upon ENSIDER in accordance with its terms;
(c)
that the ASMIDAL Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and ASMIDAL, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
ASMIDAL in accordance with its terms; and
(d)
that the ENSIDER Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and ENSIDER, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
ENSIDER in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Immeuble Maurtania
Algiers
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINPLAN 67073
Algiers
Page  8
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC
  OF ALGERIA
By /s/ Ramtane Lamamra
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Daniel Ritchie
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Civil works             1,900,000         80%
     under Part B
     of the Project
(2)  Goods                                     100% of foreign
                                               expenditures,
     (a)  Under Part A       4,300,000         100% of local
          of the Project                       expenditures
                                               (ex-factory cost)
                                               and 80% of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items procured
                                               locally
     (b)  Under Part B      25,000,000
          of the Project,
          except for goods
Page  9
          financed under
          Category (2) (c)
     (c)  Other goods under  3,800,000
          Part B of the
          Project
     (d)  Under Part C      31,000,000
          of the Project
(3)  Consultants'                              100%
     services and
     training
     (a)  Under Part A       6,200,000
          of the Project
     (b)  Under Part B       4,300,000
          of the Project
     (c)  Under Part C       1,500,000
          of the Project
          TOTAL             78,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods and 
works not exceeding $300,000 equivalent; (ii) services of consulting firms not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (iii) services of individual consultants not 
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in reducing hazardous 
pollution by: (i) strengthening the Borrower's institutional capabilities in the area 
of environmental protection and management; (ii) strengthening the legal framework 
governing the protection and management of the environment; and (iii) initiating an 
investment program aimed at mitigating the adverse impact of industrial pollution on 
health and the environment.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening of the Institutional and Legal Framework
 
1.
Strengthening the technical and administrative capabilities of the Borrower's 
national and local administrations in the area of environmental protection and 
management, through the provision of training and the acquisition of pollution 
monitoring equipment, office equipment and vehicles.
2.
Strengthening the legal framework for the protection and management of the 
environment through the carrying out of a study on environmental liability, and the 
development and implementation of suitable regulations to: (a) govern the carrying out 
of environmental impact assessments of public and private investments; (b) govern the 
reduction, re-use, handling, transportation and disposal of hazardous waste; and (c) 
establish an integrated pollution control system designed to mitigate air emissions 
Page  10
and solid and liquid effluents from specific installations through the granting of 
permits for the operation of said installations.
3.
Development of a suitable design for the permit system referred to under Part A. 
2 (c) of the Project, and implementation thereof, on a pilot basis, in the Wilaya of 
Annaba.
4.
Strengthening the environmental finance system through the carrying out of 
studies aimed at: (a) expanding the mandate of NEF to include the authority to finance 
investments in the areas of pollution control and environmental protection; (b) 
identifying suitable economic instruments; and (c) identifying and adopting clean 
technologies.
Part B:
ASMIDAL
 
1.
Dismantling and decontamination of the sulfuric and phosphoric acid plants of 
ASMIDAL.
2.
Provision of phosphoric acid and/or mono-ammonium phosphate to compensate for 
losses in production attributed to the activities referred to under Part B.1 of the 
Project.
3.
Rehabilitation of the gas treatment system in the nitric acid plant and the 
granulation units used in fertilizer production.
4.
Installation of a scrubber or a granulator in the ammonium nitrate plant.
 
5.
Rehabilitation of the harbor reception facility in the port of Annaba.
 
6.
Provision of spare parts and materials for the phosphate and nitrogen 
fertilizers production lines.
7.
Support in the areas of plant operation and management, and workers' health and 
safety standards, through technical and management training.
Part C:
ENSIDER
 
1.
Installation of dust removal systems for the electric and blast furnaces and 
sintering plants, and installation of a suitable door cleaning system in the coke 
ovens and a boiler for ammonium distillation.
2.
Provision of equipment for the construction of two (2) wastewater treatment 
plants and the renovation of the existing biological wastewater treatment plant.
3.
Provision of laboratory equipment to monitor pollution. 
 
4.
Provision of spare parts and materials for the plants referred to under Part C.1 
of the Project.
5.
Support in the areas of plant operation and management, and workers' health and 
safety standards, through technical and management training.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each May 15 and November 15
     beginning November 15, 2001
     through May 15, 2013
3,250,000
 
Page  11
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable
to the Loan on the day of 
prepayment multiplied 
by:
 
Not more than three years 
0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years
1.00
     before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions 
of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
Page  12
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Goods estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per contract and $500,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract and $300,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for Part A of the Project shall be furnished 
to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) (a), (2) (b), 
(2) (c), (2) (d), (3) (a), (3) (b) and (3) (c) as set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  13
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account, shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Page  14
Loan pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Principal Terms of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The principal terms set forth in this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.
1.
The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan repayable by the Enterprise to the 
Borrower shall be the equivalent in terms of the currency of the Borrower (determined 
on the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of 
a Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan 
Account or paid out of a Special Account on account of the cost of goods, works and 
services required by an Enterprise to carry out its respective Part of the Project, 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
Categories (1), (2) (b), (2) (c) and (3) (b), in the case of ASMIDAL, and (2) (d) and 
(3) (c), in the case of ENSIDER, set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
2.
The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a period not 
exceeding ten (10) years, inclusive of a grace period not exceeding three (3) years.
3.
Interest shall be charged on the principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum equal to the rate 
referred to under Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
