Document of
The World Bank                      ft   X
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3350-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR AN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
June 1, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1            =   Rs 10.5
Rs 1            =   US$0.095
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CDLW - Central Diesel Locomotive Works
KPT  -  Karachi Port Trust
LDP  -  Lahore Dry Port
NLC  -  National Logistics Cell
PR   -  Pakistan Railways
Ninth Railway Project = Loan No. 621-PAK of June 26, 1969
Tenth Railway Project = Loan No. 1372-PAK )
and        ) of March 8, 1977
Credit No. 684-PAK)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiary:           Pakistan Railways (PR).
Amount:                 SDR 44.3 million (US$50 million equivalent).
Terms:                  Standard.
Relending Terms:       The proceeds of the Credit would be made available
to PR at a rate of interest of 11% per annum. Funds
used to finance replacement investments would be repaid
by PR over a period of 20 years, including 4 years of
grace. Funds used to finance additions would be
treated as a Government contribution to an increase in
the capital-at-charge at the time of scheduled
repayments. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Description:  The project is designed to improve the utilization of
PR's existing assets and consists of the following main
components: (a) improvement in locomotive maintenance
through the introduction of a locomotive component
remanufacturing facility and a unit exchange mainte-
nance system; (b) installation of a management
information system; (c) facilities and equipment for
operating an international container service;
(d) provision of spare parts; and (e) technical
assistance and staff training in support of the
project's objectives. The benefits would accrue
mainly from increased availability and reliability
of PR's diesel electric locomotive fleet. The
project involves no special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Costs 1/:                               Local     Foreign       Total
--------US$ million--------
Maintenance Improvements
(i) Central Diesel & other shops           18.4        14.4         32.8
(ii) Unit Exchange Components                5.4        13.5         18.9
Management Information System                 6.3         6.0         12.3
Containerization                              9.6         4.6         14.2
Technical Assistance and Staff Training    1.5            1.9          3.4
Base Cost Estimates                        41.2        40.4         81.6
Physical Contingencies                        1.3         -            1.3
Price Contingencies                           1.9         5.4          7.3
Revenue Spares                               12.2        30.3         42.5
Total Costs 1/                          56.6        76.1        132.7
Financing Plan:                                  Local      Foreign      Total
--------US$ million--------
IDA                                           1.3        48.7         50.0
Government                                   55.3        27.4         82.7
Total                                    56.6        76.1        132.7
Estimated Disbursements:                         FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86
---------US$ million--------
Annual                                        4.5    22.5    19.5        3.5
Cumulative                                    4.5    27.0    46.5    50.0
Rate of Return:    About 18%
Appraisal Report:  No. 3818-PAK, dated May 25, 1982
Map:                IBRD 16207
1/ Including taxes and duties amounting to about US$32 million.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN FOR AN ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Credit
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 44.3 million (US$50 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an eleventh railway
*           project.  The proceeds of the Credit would be passed on to Pakistan Railways
(PR) with interest at 11% p.a. for 20 years, including 4 years of grace,
except that portion of the Credit used by PR to finance additional (as
opposed to replacement) investment which would, as is customary in Pakistan,
be added to PR's capital-at-charge and not repaid to the Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments and
Prospects" (No. 3802-PAK, dated April 14, 1982) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on April 16, 1982.
3.      The past four years have witnessed a significant economic recovery in
Pakistan. Between FY77 and FY81 GDP growth averaged over 6% p.a. This
growth was accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial produc-
tion well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging 3% p.a.,
and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real terms by 11%
p.a. Value added in agriculture rose by an average of 4.2% p.a. and in
industry by 8.1% p.a. This performance contrasts markedly with the economic
stagnation of the early and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP averaged only
3-4% and goods production 1.1% p.a., and export growth was negligible. Fol-
lowing a number of other favorable developments, including the conclusion
of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF, a short-term debt
rescheduling arrangement with bilateral creditors of the Pakistan Consortium
and improved external aid inflows, both the budget and the balance of pay-
ments are under reasonable control and the short-term economic outlook has
considerably improved.
4.      The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather, improved foreign demand for Pakistan's
exports and higher domestic demand associated with better crops, rising rural
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the Presi-
dent's Report No. P-3323-PAK (Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project)
dated May 17, 1982.



2-
incomes and workers' remittances from the Middle East. Various policy chan-
ges introduced by the Government have also contributed significantly to the
recovery.
5.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives to
improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major
crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices; and
efforts have been made to improve the fertilizer distribution system by
expanding the marketing network and by ensuring adequate supplies and timely
delivery of fertilizer imports. Steps have been taken to reduce the fer-
tilizer subsidy (which has been creating budgetary problems) and by separat-
ing it from the development budget for agriculture in order to protect
allocations for other priority agricultural projects and programs. An
Agricultural Prices Commission has been set up to make recommendations on
appropriate changes in crop support and input prices on a consistent and
timely basis.
6.      In addition, the Government has begun to address the deep-seated
problems affecting productivity at the farm level. A start has been made in
improving extension services through the adoption of the so-called training
and visit system. Reforms have been initiated to the agricultural research
system in line with the findings of a USAID/World Bank study. The Government
has formulated and begun to implement a new agricultural policy based on the
main recommendations of a UNDP study on irrigated agriculture which
emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the water delivery system
through the rehabilitation of distributaries and better scheduling of water
deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the role of the private sector, for
example, through the promotion of private tubewell development in sweet
groundwater areas. Other programs--in pesticides, seeds, agricultural credit
and farm power--have also been strengthened. These initiatives are still at
an early stage and a breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at
the farm level is yet to take place.
7.      Major changes have been made during the past four years in Government
policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the early and
mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the private
sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead industrial
investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricultural
processing and some industrial units have been denationalized; constitutional
safeguards have been provided to private industry against further arbitrary
government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector have been
widened. A wide range of incentives including tax holidays, excise and
import duty concessions, concessionary credit and income tax provisions, and
direct cash rebates have been granted to encourage private investment and
exports. These have been supplemented by a partial liberalization of imports
which will improve the availability of inputs. The investment sanctioning
procedure has been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement in



-3-
private sector confidence and to a sharp increase in proposals for relatively
smaller-scale private investment projects. There is also evidence of
increased interest by investors in larger projects, especially in the cement,
chemicals and fertilizer subsectors.
8.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which has
been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been com-
pleted of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have little
prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down. These
measures, together with additions to capacity and steps to retain skilled
technical personnel through salary adjustments, for example in the fertilizer
subsector, have helped to increase production and capacity utilization sub-
stantially in the public sector. In addition to the denationalizations
mentioned earlier, further public disinvestment is being considered on a
case-by-case basis.
9.      The higher level of economic activity during the past four years and
the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new taxes and
reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues. Nevertheless, the
budget remained under strain as expenditures rose as rapidly as revenues.
The Government's policies of encouraging production and exports through
subsidized inputs and export rebates, and the political and social con-
straints to making substantial price adjustments on a number of items of mass
consumption, inflated subsidies. Rising debt service, following the expira-
tion at the end of FY78 of the four-year debt relief arrangement with member
countries of the Pakistan Consortium, and increased defense spending con-
tributed to the growth in non-development expenditures. In addition, commit-
ments under the ongoing public investment program and higher subsidies for
agriculture led to further increases in development spending between FY77
and FY79. Despite the increased revenues, the overall budget deficit
remained around 8% of GNP and the bank-financed deficit around 3-4% of GNP.
10.     The budgetary situation improved significantly during FY80 and FY81.
Government revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in FY79, rose
by an average of 22% p.a. during the two years as a result of the continued
growth of the economy, tax and tariff increases announced in the FY80 and
FY81 budgets, and intensified efforts to improve tax collections. Although
political developments outside Pakistan's borders led to unplanned expendi-
tures, tight restraints were maintained on total spending; the growth of
public expenditures was limited to 11% p.a. Both development and administra-
tive expenditures were cut back, while subsidies other than those on farm
inputs were held to the previous year's level in nominal terms. These



-4-
restraints on expenditures, continued revenue growth and some improvement in
surpluses generated by public sector agencies helped to increase the
availability of non-inflationary domestic resources. During FY80 and FY81,
the overall budget deficit averaged 5% of GNP and bank-financed budget
deficit of 1.6% of GNP; both figures are well below those of the late 1970s.
11.     Pakistan's export performance has improved considerably in recent
years.  Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578 million
in FY77 to over US$2.1 billion in FY81, have also greatly assisted the exter-
nal position. These increases have, however, been partly offset by an
increase in the value of imports, mainly petroleum, oil and lubricants,
fertilizer, edible oil and capital goods. The current account deficit was
US$947 million or 3.1% of GNP in FY81, compared to US$1,050 million or nearly
7% of GNP in FY77 in current prices. The financing of these deficits had
presented considerable difficulties to the Government during the past few
years, since program-type assistance from OPEC countries (which was substan-
tial in the mid-1970s) as well as net aid flows from Consortium sources
declined through FY79. However, a strong upsurge of remittances during FY80,
a marginal increase in net long-term capital inflows and substantial extraor-
dinary receipts from OPEC countries eased the external financing problem in
the second half of FY80 and helped to build up foreign exchange reserves to
about US$750 million at the end of FY80, the equivalent of six weeks'
imports.
12.     A number of favorable developments substantially improved the balance
of payments situation in FY81. These included the conclusion of an Extended
Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF in November 1980; a positive response
from aid donors to the country's improved economic performance resulting in
increased aid commitments and inflows; and an agreement with bilateral
creditors in the Pakistan Consortium for rescheduling of debt service pay-
ments on official concessional debt falling due over an 18-month period
beginning mid-January 1981. In addition, both merchandise exports and
migrant remittances expanded by over 20%. As a consequence of improved
performance on both current account and capital account, foreign exchange
reserves increased from US$748 million to US$1,058 million during the year;
the latter is the equivalent of about two months' worth of import of goods
and services.
13.     The recent favorable developments represent modest, though welcome,
steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essentially struc-
tural and long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, further
wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues which are limiting economic
growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its
recently improved economic performance over the present decade and bring
about a modest improvement in the living standards of its population. These
issues include the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agricul-
ture; the structure and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the need to
improve performance of public sector enterprises; the factors lying behind



-5-
continued rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service
expenditures; and the problems of resource mobilization.
14.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Despite recent
improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental factors continue
to limit agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential implied
by the resources and technologies already available. Generally, output
growth has not been commensurate with the substantial increases in available
inputs, especially water and fertilizer. While considerable potential still
exists for the additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, it appears
essential to give greater priority to evolving complementary policies and
programs which would have a direct impact on yields at the farm level. The
importance of increasing farm productivity is now more widely recognized in
the Government and a beginning has been made in addressing this problem.
Nevertheless, support for programs to strengthen research, extension, water
management and other programs in the agricultural and water sectors needs to
be intensified, while fertilizer subsidies must be further reduced, accom-
panied by necessary adjustments in output and consumer prices.
15.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in
manufacturing production, though recently better, remain well below those
attained in the 1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts
for nearly 40% of value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from
problems of inefficiency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in
foreign markets, while manufacturing growth has been generally affected by
the inadequate performance of public sector enterprises. Although there have
been some recent improvements in the output and profitability of public
enterprises, these improvements need to be carried further through
appropriate reforms to remove distortions in pricing, improve performance
criteria and incentives to managers and to further rationalize the sector.
To assist and further encourage the recovery in private investment and to
maintain the increased momentum in the industrial sector will require, among
other things, an adequate supply of local and foreign financing, both for
investments and current inputs, and the more rapid provision of necessary
utilities and other infrastructure requirements. At the same time, it is
necessary to ensure that the Government's incentive system supports those
industries in which Pakistan has a comparative advantage; more analysis is
needed to determine levels of effective protection for formulating an
appropriate industrial development strategy for the 1980s. The recovery in
industry also needs to be reinforced by improvements in labor-management
relations and by further measures to rehabilitate the textile industry and
generally to increase exports.
16.     The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by adjust-
ing domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy



-6-
forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by
the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resources as well as by
petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil sector
has been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with foreign
private companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of technical, geological
and other reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as well as the
development of existing fields has been slow; and the benefits of Pakistan's
considerable potential in the oil and gas sector are yet to be realized. A
number of issues relating to such matters as energy planning, pricing and
organization will need to be addressed in order to realize this potential.
17.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the com-
modity-producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in
population, currently running at about 3% p.a., which has seriously hand-
icapped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning
programs have so far had little effect and there have been few changes in the
socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany declines in
fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on government
resources simply to maintain education and health programs at their current
inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy rates, improved
health facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that
population growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on social services
remain comparably low and undue emphasis has been given to higher education
and urban health facilities. High priority needs to be given not only to
increased allocations for family planning and social service expenditure but
also to its redirection to serve the wider interests of the population and
the economy. While the substantial migration from Pakistan to the Middle
East over the past few years has to some extent relieved the pressures
resulting from rapid population growth, this clearly cannot be relied upon to
provide an answer to the situation in the long run. The Government has
recently shown more awareness of this problem; a new population program has
been adopted and is in the initial stages of implementation.
18.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive and
the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will have
to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external resource
constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of payments, a fundamen-
tal improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the economy,
particularly in public savings. At 13% of GNP, national savings are substan-
tially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s, but are still low for a
country at Pakistan's per capita income level and stage of development.  The
continuation of the Government's recent efforts to restrain public spending,
improve the performance of the public sector and encourage private investment
will help to reduce present imbalances between investment and savings flows.
At the same time, an increase in savings inevitably calls for restraining
private consumption through appropriate price adjustments and selective duty
increases on non-essential imports. While the Government has made several



-7-
price increases in the recent past, further adjustments will directly reduce
the budgetary burden of subsidies. Continued restraints on spending and
measures to further improve revenues through improvements in tax administra-
tion and tax and rate increases (for example, property taxes, domestic water
rates and irrigation water charges) are also needed.
19.     Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses,
potatoes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring
countries. In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's
exports of manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as
well as of a wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industrial
sector. Increased domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral fuels
and fertilizer would help to moderate import growth considerably.
20.     As described above, Pakistan's policies and economic performance have
improved considerably over the past several years. Improvements in demand
management and in planning, incentives and government programs in agricul-
ture, industry and energy have helped to create a climate more conducive to
rapid economic growth and better international trade performance. While Bank
long-term forecasts show that foreign borrowing on commercial as well as
concessional terms would be necessary to support economic growth of 5-6%
p.a., recent policy initiatives have substantially improved Pakistan's
creditworthiness for commercial borrowing and for a blend of Bank and IDA
borrowing.
21.     At the end of FY80, Pakistan's external public debt (excluding the
undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$8.8 billion, of which US$5 billion was owed
to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, TJS$1.3 billion to OPEC and
US$1.5 billion to multilateral agencies and the balance to other bilateral
and private lenders. In 1980, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's external
public indebtedness was 13% and in external debt service was 11%. According
to Bank forecasts, provided recent policy improvements are sustained, Pakis-
tan's debt service ratio (debt service divided by exports of goods and factor
and non-factor services), which was about 12% in 1981, should remain roughly
constant through 1985 and, even assuming substantial commercial borrowing,
should rise only slowly thereafter to about 17.5% in 1990.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
22.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,



-8-
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 38% of total Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan have been for public utility services, 30% for agriculture,
31% for industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and 2% for educa-
tion. Lending for public utility services has included Loans and Credits for
railways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways, telecommunications
and water supply.
23.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly; to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are respon-
sible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth; and
thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
24.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and credit;
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting services;
improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and
water-logging; and providing essential facilities including tubewells, live-
stock development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending
is to assist the Government's program to increase the productivity of avail-
able land and water resources in the Indus Basin through quick-yielding
investments, as recommended recently in a UNDP-financed study for which the
Bank was executing agency.
25.     In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven Loans/Credits amounting to US$270 mil-
lion for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investmient Corporation (PICIC),
and two Credits to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), total-
ing US$50 million. Direct lending for industry has also included assistance
to three large fertilizer plants, as well as for small-scale industry. IFC
has made investments in 14 Pakistan enterprises for a total of US$73.7 mil-
lion, of which US$63.9 million was by way of loans and US$9.8 million by
equity participations (these are shown in Annex II). About US$33.9 million
of these investments remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC
include three in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles, two
in food and food processing, and one each in cement, steel, fertilizers,
plastics, wood processing and petrochemicals. IFC is also a shareholder in
PICIC.
26.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications has
shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the
institutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port
Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department, and Federal
and Provincial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank Group has



-9-
assisted the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and
Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects respec-
tively; the sector has also been assisted by the construction under the Indus
Basin Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Dams.
27.     In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has recently financed a
petroleum development project and begun to play an important role in
strengthening the Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are
assisting in the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic
energy resources. A second water supply project in Lahore is currently under
implementation. Five Credits for education, totaling US$62.5 million, have
assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and higher technical and
agricultural education, middle-level training of primary teachers and
agricultural extension agents.
28.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Credit
and Loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some projects have
experienced initial delays due to government procedures for project approval,
which are now being strengthened, and to slowness in appointment of consult-
ants. Rapid turnover of managerial and technical staff, in part due to
migration to the Middle East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in
the case of some projects.
29.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
water supply, population planning, oil and gas development, and education.
Pakistan continues to have domestic resource constraints for the reasons set
out in Part I. To assist the Government to finance agricultural and other
high-priority projects which have a low foreign exchange component, financing
of some local expenditures in specific cases is justified.
30.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakis-
tan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance
within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
31.     The transportation system and patterns in Pakistan reflect the
geographical and economic configuration of the country. The bulk of traffic,
including imports and exports, moves along densely trafficked corridors
extending for approximately 2,000 km from Karachi, the main port and
industrial center of Pakistan in the south, through the generally flat rich
agricultural areas of Sind and Punjab in the Indus Basin, to the provincial



-10-
and administrative centers of Lahore and Rawalpindi/Islamabad in the north.
Inland surface transport services are operated by Pakistan Railways (PR),
some provincially owned bus companies, the National Logistics Cell of the
Federal Government and numerous small private truckers and bus owners.
Pakistan International Airways provides both domestic and international
service.
32.     The growth in traffic in the transport sector has been faster than
the growth in GNP, particularly for passenger traffic. Domestic freight
transport (ton-kilometers) grew during the 1970s at approximately 7% p.a.,
compared with the GNP growth rate of 4.5% p.a. Passenger traffic
(passenger-kilometers) increased at a rate of 9.7% p.a.
33.     The Pakistan railway system connects most of the major cities
throughout the country, and provides connections with India, Iran and
Afghanistan. Although historically the railways have handled the bulk of
freight traffic (especially long-haul movements) and considerable passenger
traffic, the proportion of freight traffic carried by rail has decreased
steadily over the past decade, from 48% of total ton-kilometers in 1971/72 to
a low of 26% in 1978/79. While total tonnage transported by the railways has
been decreasing, the average haul of revenue freight has increased from
720 kilometers in 1976/77 to 860 kilometers in 1980/81. The railways' share
of passenger traffic has declined from 20% in 1971/72 to 15% in 1980/81,
although over the same period passenger-kilometers have increased by about
70%.
34.     Pakistan has a principal road network of about 40,000 km, of which
about 24,000 km have bituminous surfacing. Nearly 50% of the paved roads are
in Punjab, which is located in the heart of the Indus Basin and contains over
50% of the country's population; Baluchistan, the largest but least populated
province, has about 11% of the paved roads. Most of the non-paved roads in
the principal network are gravel surfaced and provide all weather access.
In addition to the main network, there are some 55,000 km of fair-weather
roads which provide access to the rural areas during the dry season.
35.     The principal roads link most of Pakistan's cities and industrial
productive areas, but present transport demands are not economically met as
much of the road system is narrow, has been inadequately maintained and has
inadequate pavement strengths, leading to failures on major roads under heavy
traffic conditions 1/. On the main roads, traffic volume is high, ranging
from 2,500 to 4,000 average daily traffic (ADT); on secondary roads, traffic
volume of 400-800 ADT is common. About 70% of the traffic volume in rural
areas is heavy traffic (trucks 50% and buses 20%). Based on traffic count,
1/ These problems are being addressed in the context of the Third Highway
Project (Credit No. 974-PAK, dated April 9, 1980).



-11-
fuel consumption and vehicle registration data, average traffic growth
appears to be of the order of 7-8% per year.
36.     Trucking routes and rates are unregulated and the road haulage
industry is competitive. Most trucks are privately owned, with many small
firms and a large number of driver-operators. The 8-ton capacity truck is
the common vehicle used, although in the last few years small 3/4-ton trucks
have become popular. As road transport has developed, the railways have
increasingly concentrated on carrying long distance bulk commodities.
37.     The bulk of road passenger transport services, i.e., urban and
inter-city bus services, are provided by small firms and owner-operators.
There are also four large provincial bus corporations which operate urban and
inter-city services. Registration figures indicate that from 1969 to 1979
the bus fleet grew more rapidly (9% p.a.) than the automobile (8% p.a.) and
truck fleet (6% p.a.). Inter-city bus transport is largely unregulated,
buses are not subject to regular mechanical inspection, drivers' behavior is
undisciplined and the safety record is poor. Bus fares are about 60% higher
than second class rail fares which are currently subsidized (see paragraph 58
below).   As a result, passengers normally prefer rail over bus when both
services are available.
38.     The role of the private trucking industry, as well as that of PR, has
been significantly affected in recent years by the activities of the National
Logistics Cell (NLC). The Government, faced with an emergency need to import
and distribute substantial volumes of wheat and fertilizer in 1978 because of
a poor wheat crop, established NLC within the Army to be responsible for the
day-to-day operation of Karachi Port and to coordinate rail-port transport
movements; NLC was also provided with a fleet of 500 new 20-ton trucks to
supplement existing carrying capacity. NLC handled the crisis situation
efficiently and the Government decided to give it permanent status. In
1979/80 NLC acquired additional trucks and tankers; its current carrying
capacity is estimated to be about 820-1,080 million ton-kilometers per year.
As a result, NLC has become a major competitor to the railways as well as to
private truckers. Its effect has been mainly felt upon north-south freight
traffic; according to PR's own assessment, in 1979/80 the railways lost to
NLC the transportation of about 0.6 million tons of fertilizer, 0.2 million
tons of cotton and 0.2 million tons of rice. Allocation of traffic to NLC
(which has been largely determined by NLC itself) has not always been consis-
tent with economic considerations; NLC has been assigned public-sector
long-haul traffic that could have been more economically transported by rail,
while PR has been assigned less profitable and operationally more complex
cargoes or routes, particularly in mountainous terrain. The Government has
become aware of this problem and since 1981 better freight allocation has
resulted from changed NLC policies and improved coordination between NLC and
PR resulting from placing both organizations under the same Minister. Agree-
ment has been reached with the Government that, in the allocation of public
sector freight traffic, due consideration would be given to the relative



-12-
economic advantages and capacities of various transport modes (Section 3.10
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
39.     Transport Policy and Investment.  Responsibility for transport is
divided among three federal ministries. The Ministry of Communications is
responsible for roads and road transport, shipping and ports; the Ministry of
Railways for railroads; and the Ministry of Defense for civil aviation. In
the case of roads, responsibility is further subdivided among the four
provincial governments. A National Transport Research Center (NTRC) was set
up in 1975 to undertake multi-modal transport research and coordinate the
research work of the ministries.
40.     The Government's general strategy for the transport sector outlined
in the Fifth Five-Year Plan (FY79-83) is to emphasize improved utilization
and modernization of existing facilities in order to increase capacity; to
promote the integration of different modes of transport; and to give high
priority to completion of ongoing schemes. About 23% of the Fifth Plan
investments was allocated to the transport sector; actual expenditures,
however, have been lower than anticipated because of resource constraints.
The Government's revised Public Sector Development Program for FY82-84 aims
at iinplementing the Fifth Plan strategy within prospective resource
availabilities; allocations to the transport sector in the program account
for about 21% of total planned expenditures through FY84.
41.     Pricing in the road subsector is largely unregulated and there is
considerable competition among operators. A revision of the tariff structure
at Karachi Port on the basis of replacement cost accounting is underway. The
main tariff policy issue in the transport sector, the cross-subsidization
of rail passenger services by rail freight operations, is being addressed
under the proposed project.
42.     Petroleum consumption in the transport sector has accelerated rapidly
since 1972, reflecting a substantial increase in the motor vehicle fleet and
road transport services. In 1979, the sector accounted for 57% of all
petroleum products consumed in Pakistan. Price increases in 1979 and 1980
set the domestic prices of gasoline and diesel fuel considerably above import
parity prices, although a sizable price differential is maintained between
diesel and gasoline to discourage gasoline consumption.
Pakistan Railways
43.     Pakistan Railways (PR) is owned and managed by the Government of
Pakistan. Until April 1982 the functions of operating the Railways were
performed by a five-member Board headed by a Chairman and located at Lahore,
while the policy and monitoring controls were exercised by the Ministry of
Railways, headed by a Secretary, Ministry of Railways, established at
Islamabad. To streamline the management and organization of the railways,
the Railway Board and the Railways Ministry have been merged and the Board



-13-
has been moved to Islamabad. The Chairman, Railway Board is now the
ex-officio Secretary, Ministry of Railways and the other riembers of the Board
have been designated as Additional Secretaries, Ministry of Railways.
44.     For decades, the members of the Board and other senior officers of PR
have been senior railwaymen with a deep attachment to tradition and slow to
adapt to changing circumstances. Although PR possesses competent and skilled
managers, the organization, with its rigid departmentalization, has not been
conducive to efficient management. To rectify this situation, PR operations
have now been placed under a single authority (the General Manager), account-
able to the Railway Board for all aspects of day-to-day operation. In addi-
tion, the marketing and costing functions of the railways need to be merged
into one single department separate from the transport function; steps are
also needed to completely overhaul PR's purchasing and stores, and establish
them as a unified streamlined department. These matters are being addressed
under the proposed reorganization.
45.     With about 130,000 employees, PR is the largest public sector
employer in Pakistan. However, since PR's traffic growth has been slow, and
since staff productivity has increased very little, less than full benefits
have been obtained from modernization measures such as dieselization. There
is need for reductions in staff strength through attrition and improvement in
efficiency. Under the ongoing Tenth Railway Project, PR has reduced staff
levels over the period 1977-1981 by some 3,500 and maintained a program of
further reductions of non-professional and unskilled staff through attrition.
Under the project, PR would carry out detailed action plans, satisfactory to
the Association, to strengthen PR's organization and management, including
staff reductions. Progress would be reviewed annually and actions to be
taken each year would be determined in consultation with the Association
(Section 3.09 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
46.     The training of PR staff is carried out at either PR's training
schools or government training institutes and has generally been satisfac-
tory. While many long-service officers are expected to retire from PR in the
near future, the staffing problem so created will be eased by training car-
ried out under the Tenth Railway Project in such areas as locomotive and
track maintenance, freight train operations and accounting modernization.
47.     Operations.  The railway network consists of about 8,800
route-kilometers.  Currently overage track structure on the Karachi-Lahore
main line has required the imposition of speed restrictions at many loca-
tions. Track maintenance procedures were examined by PR with assistance from
consultants financed under the Ninth Railway Project and new maintenance
procedures have been introduced. A new bridge completed in February 1980 at
Kotri provides a second track over the Indus River, thus removing a major
bottleneck on the main line. A new marshalling yard at Pipri, designed to
remove congestion in the Karachi area, was completed in February 1980, with



-14-
partial financing under the Ninth Railway Project. Modernization of telecom-
munications facilities and signaling being undertaken under the Tenth Railway
Project is scheduled for completion by mid-1983.
48.     An improvement of PR's operations has been a major objective under
previous Bank-assisted railway projects in Pakistan. Although a number of
large investments included in the Fifth Five-Year Plan have now been com-
pleted, PR's operating indicators are not yet in line with the targets set
under the Tenth Railway Project. The main areas where progress has fallen
short of expectations are those of motive power availability and use, and
average wagon turnaround time. It was expected that by 1979/80 available
locomotives would produce 576 locomotive-kilometers per day on passenger
trains, and 288 locomotive-kilometers per day on freight trains; the actual
results were 459 and 197, respectively. System-wide turnaround time for
wagons, which was expected to be reduced from 16.7 to 12.5 days, was brought
down to only 15.3 days in 1979/80. Steps to attain these targets have been
included in the plans of action to improve PR's operations (paragraph 45
above).
49.     PR's motive power consists of 474 diesel electric units produced by
seven manufacturers in five different countries, an electric locomotive fleet
which was introduced in 1970/71, and a considerable number of steam locomo-
tives of which about 90% are over 40 years old. The problems associated with
the proliferation of types and age of PR's fleet are further aggravated by
PR's inadequate maintenance facilities and chronic shortages of critical
spare parts. Low motive power availability and reliability have been impor-
tant factors adversely affecting PR's performance. The proposed project
would provide assistance in improving PR's locomotive maintenance organiza-
tion and facilities. Before any decision is taken on the extent to which the
locomotive fleet should be replaced or expanded, it is desirable to await the
expected benefits of improved maintenance as well as the results of an elec-
trification study under the proposed project (see paragraph 78 below).
50.     Another major factor contributing to the operational deficiencies of
the railways has been the policy of the Government and PR that passenger
traffic should receive higher priority than freight in the allocation of
available motive power. This policy has important operational, economic and
financial consequences. It has prevented PR from carrying the traffic it is
best suited to carry and which would significantly benefit the country's
economy, and it has been a major reason for PR's recent poor financial
results. PR has identified some 60 passenger trains, of the 450 operated
daily, whose variable costs exceed revenues by Rs 95 million. These trains
have three characteristics viz., (a) their ridership is on average less than
50% of capacity; (b) they are on lines where there is at least one other
train a day; and (c) there is an alternative bus transport service.
51.     There is also substantial room for improvement in PR's freight opera-
tions, while maintaining a reasonable passenger service. Agreement has been



-15-
reached on action plans (see paragraph 45 above) to improve train operations
including, inter alia, elimination of underused and uneconomical passenger
trains; implementation schedules; measures to increase the average speed of
freight trains; and increases in unit and block trains for movement of bulk
commodities.
52.     PR's Finances.  There have been a number of improvements in the
financial arrangements between PR and the Government since appraisal of the
Tenth Railway Project in 1976. Financial reporting has been improved, and
fixed assets have been valued at replacement cost which is now used as the
basis of depreciation. A Costing Cell has been established and would be
enhanced under the proposed project. In 1979, the Government set up an
"Experts Committee on the Railways" to examine the financial arrangements
between the Railways and the Government. In October 1981, the majority of
the committee's recommendations were accepted and implemented. The major
changes are:
(a)  Dividend on Capital at Charge:  Previously PR was required to pay a
dividend to the Government each year, even if its earnings were
insufficient to generate the required cash. The shortfall was
financed by PR taking up an interest bearing loan from the Treasury.
This practice has been changed and the dividend will be paid to the
Government only when the cash to do so is available after meeting
operating costs, appropriation to funds and debt service.
(b) Cash Deficits on Operations: Interest due to the Government was
treated similarly to dividends, i.e., payments had to be made and, if
necessary, financed by further borrowings. In the future, any such
cash deficits in operations will be met by a grant from the Govern-
ment.
(c)  Depreciation of Fixed Assets:  The charge for depreciation, which is
termed an appropriation to the Depreciation Reserve Fund, was pre-
viously determined annually at about 12% of total revenues. It is
now based on the annual depreciation of the fixed assets valued at
replacement cost. The effect has been an increase in the charge to a
level considered satisfactory.
53.     These changes are sound and remnove some unnecessary burdens on PR's
finances. The Government also decided that loans made since 1972 should be
cancelled and that the amount of these past loans should be added to PR's
capital-at-charge on which PR would be liable to pay dividends in perpetuity.
The capital-at-charge is regarded as government equity investment in PR and
to increase it by the amount of losses or unpaid dividends is not consistent
with normal financial practice. Agreement has been reached with the Govern-
ment that the value of past loans and any future sums transferred to PR to
meet cash deficits on operations should be accounted for in PR's balance



-16-
sheets but should not be added to the capital-at-charge (Section 4.03 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
54.     The Governmenit's policy is that PR should earn revenues sufficient to
cover all operating expenses (including a depreciation charge) and debt
service, and to pay a dividend to the Government. Agreements reached under
the Tenth Railway Project envisaged that PR's finances would improve so that
from FY77/78 revenues would be sufficient to cover operating expenses and
debt service and that, from FY78/79, they would also be sufficient to earn an
increasing percentage of the dividend until 100% was reached by FY81/82. The
covenant was met in 1977/78 and 1978/79 but not since.  There are two under-
lying reasons for this decline in PR's financial position:
(a) costs have risen faster than anticipated, particularly fuel prices.
Between 1976 and 1981 total revenues increased by 170% while total
working expenses went up by 185%. The cost of labor shows the lowest
percentage increase due to action by PR to reduce staff numbers; and
(b) the low rates charged for passenger services, which do not cover the
variable costs of operation, and the priority given to passenger
traffic which has limited the earnings from the profitable freight
traffic.
55.     The agreements under the Tenth Railway Project also provide that from
FY79/80 the revenues of each service, passenger and freight, would be at
least sufficient to cover its variable costs; this was also recommended by
the "Experts Committee" (paragraph 52 above). The extent of losses on pas-
senger services was revealed in 1978 by a costing and traffic study carried
out by consultants under the Tenth Railway Project. Passenger fares were
increased by 20% in July 1979 and by 30% in January 1980 to a level where
revenues exceeded the variable costs of services. However, further increases
did not keep pace with costs; by FY80/81 revenues from passenger service were
estimated to cover only 86% of the variable costs and 60% of total costs. In
the same year freight revenues exceeded variable costs by 68% and total costs
by 18%; the net operating deficit of Rs 462 million was made up of Rs 750
million deficit on passenger services and a surplus of Rs 288 million from
freight.
56.     The costing and tariff study referred to above also recommended a
number of changes in the tariffs for freight traffic designed to simplify the
charging system.  The majority of these were implemented in the first half of
1980. Recent studies demonstrate that there is no shortage of potential
freight traffic and that rail is more economical than road haulage, par-
ticularly for distances over 250 km.
57.     Changes in passenger train services and fares are sensitive political
issues in Pakistan. There is a strong public demand for more seats, par-
ticularly on long distance services which are chronically overcrowded. The



-17-
Government is attempting to meet the increasing demand and to minimize fare
increases. Wghile recognizing that decisions on passenger services and prices
have wider implications than PR's profitabilitv, the Government is also aware
that the extent of PR's losses should be constrained and its finances placed
on a sound basis.
58.     Agreement has been reached on the following objectives, and on
various operational and other remedial measures necessary to achieve them
(Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement):
(a) commencing in FY82/83, PR's total revenues from passenger and freight
operations should be sufficient to cover the costs of operation
(including depreciation), debt service requirements and fund
appropriations and, by FY85/86, provide an operating surplus at least
equal to the prescribed dividend on capital-at-charge;
(b) in FY83/84 and thereafter, revenues from passenger services should be
at least sufficient to meet the variable costs of such services; and
(c) additional fare increases would be made on air-conditioned sleeper
services so that revenues cover total costs by 1984/85.
59.     In order that PR's annual budget estimates would show separately the
results of its passenger and freight operations and the financial burden of
facilities not directly related to railway operations, PR will be required
from FY82/83 to present with its estimates and accounts a set of Proforma
Accounts which would separately show revenues/costs/profits/losses from
freight and passenger services, and the cost of non-commercial services
including medical, welfare and police (Section 4.01(c) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
Bank Group Involvement
60.     The first Loan to PR (formerly Pakistan Western Railway) was made in
1952. Since then six other projects have been assisted by the Bank Group 1/.
The main objective of this assistance to PR was to rehabilitate the railways'
facilities and equipment; physical implementation under these projects was
generally satisfactory. Through technical assistance under the projects,
there have been substantial improvements in the accounting and financial
procedures of PR. However, as discussed above, operational and financial
performance of the railways has deteriorated in recent years. A major con-
tributing factor to this deterioration has been the priority given by the
1/ The numbering of railway projects in Pakistan includes Bank Group opera-
tions with the former East Pakistan Railway, now Bangladesh Railways.



-18-
Government to passenger services (which are subsidized) over freight services
(which are financially viable).
61.     A Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Ninth Railway Project was
prepared in 1979 and a draft Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) has
recently been circulated. The PPAR noted that, though performance under the
project had been rather disappointing, a mitigating factor was the severe
political and economic disturbances during the implementation period. The
PPAR concluded that, as a result of the investments under the project, there
had been improvements in the efficiency of the railways. Some improvements
were achieved in operations but the financial situation of PR had
deteriorated. The most serious problems concerned railway tariffs and tran-
sport priorities, which were distorting the demand and supply position for
rail services. The main findings and recommendations of the PCR and PPAR
pertain to subjects which have either been addressed under the ongoing Tenth
Railway Project or are the main objectives of the proposed project.
62.     The Tenth Railway Project was approved in March 1977.  Physical
progress under this project has been generally satisfactory. PR has made
considerable efforts to meet the covenants and undertakings under the
project; the principal shortcomings relate to financial targets which have
been mainly dependent on actions by the Government relating to passenger
services. These and other outstanding issues will be addressed under the
proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
63.     The proposed project was prepared by Pakistan Railways and appraised
in October/November 1981. Negotiations took place in Washington from May
4-12, 1982. The Pakistan delegation was headed by Mr. A. Kalam, Secretary,
Ministry of Railways. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Pakistan: Eleventh
Railway Project" (Report No. 3818-PAK, dated May 25, 1982) is being circu-
lated separately to the Executive Directors. A supplementary data sheet is
attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
64.     The railways remain a vital part of Pakistan's transport system and,
given the terrain, the distances involved and the large amounts of bulk
cargo, it should continue to have an important role to play in the economy.
Its future, however, depends critically on its ability to improve operations
substantially and to adapt to overall changes in the transport situation
resulting from inevitable losses of freight to other modes (e.g., transporta-
tion by pipeline of petroleum, oil and lubricants, which are PR's main
revenue freight earners), increasing competition from the road subsector and
shifts in the pattern of total demand for transport in the country.



-19-
65.     The proposed project is designed to assist PR to help meet the tran-
sport requirements of the productive sectors of the economy effectively. To
achieve these objectives, the project would: (a) improve the reliability of
PR's diesel electric locomotive fleet through modernization of maintenance;
(b) introduce a modern management information system in PR; and (c) establish
a regular export/import container service between Karachi and an inland
terminal at Lahore. The physical investments under the project would comple-
ment the various operational and financial reforms described in Part III
above.
66.     The proposed project includes:
(a) improvements in locomotive maintenance, consisting of:
(i) expansion, equipping and modernization of the Rawalpindi Central
Diesel Locomotive Works to remanufacture critical components and
assemblies;
(ii) provision of critical machinery and layout modifications at the
Karachi Locomotive Shed to enable this facility to change over to
a unit exchange maintenance system; and
(iii) provision of components and assemblies for the initial stock
required for a unit exchange pool;
(b) acquisition and installation of a data network and hardware and
software for the development and implementation of a management
information system;
(c) expansion of Lahore Dry Port (LDP), construction of tracks and
storage, and acquisition of rolling stock and handling equipment for
the operation of an international container service between Karachi
and Lahore;
(d) staff training and technical advisory services in support of the
project objectives; and
(e) provision of maintenance spares (revenue spares) for locomotives.
67.     Locomotive Maintenance Improvements.  The economic first life of a
diesel electric locomotive is generally considered to be 15 to 20 years. At
this age, the mechanical components are either in need of major overhaul or
are obsolete. The electric traction and control system also deteriorates
with age. Both of these conditions result in costly in-train failures, with
severe adverse repercussions on operating efficiency. It is also generally
agreed that remanufacture of a locomotive at 15 to 20 years is economically
sound and will result in an additional life cycle of about equal length. The



-20-
introduction of the latest technological developments as a part of the
remanufacturing process provides additional efficiency and reliability.
68.     As stated above (paragraph 49), PR's existing locomotive fleet is a
mixture of models from seven different manufacturers in five countries, and
yet another type is expected to be added in the near future. The variety
of manufacturers in itself creates a cumbersome maintenance situation. When
viewed in light of the fleet's age and problems associated with importing
spare parts, the maintenance plans must be comprehensive and well laid and
remanufacture becomes a necessity if the fleet of locomotives is to perform
reliably. In the absence of such arrangements, PR has suffered from high
in-train failure rates, poor availability and reduced tractive effort.
Unless this situation is changed, low availability and reliability will
continue and early replacement of a large number of units will be required.
The proposed project would provide facilities for remanufacture.
69.     In addition to remanufacturing capacity, a locomotive maintenance
scheme, especially for an older fleet, should include a unit exchange main-
tenance system (UEMS). The major advantages of the UEMS over the
remove-repair-replace approach now practiced by PR are:
(a) parts can be salvaged which would otherwise be scrapped;
(b) a smaller inventory of parts is required because the remanufacture
and assembly process is centralized;
(c) reliability and longevity of the part (and ultimately the locomotive)
is improved because high quality is maintainable at a central
workshop where manpower and machines are specialized; and
(d) technical improvements can be incorporated uniformly by the central-
ized work program.
70.     An attempt by PR to introduce a UEMS several years ago was unsuccess-
ful because of inadequate import of spares (due to foreign exchange shortage)
and the lack of remanufacturing capability. The proposed project would
provide PR with the needed pool of spare parts for the establishment and
operation of a UEMS as well as with facilities for the remanufacture of
components.
71.     It will be important that PR's pool of spares be naintained and
expanded as fleet size increases or other changes take place, and as com-
ponents become worn or damaged beyond repair. Under the project, agreement
has been reached that PR would maintain and expand the unit exchange pool of
components, as required by maintenance needs and as agreed from time to time
with the Association (Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).



-2 1-
72.     In addition to these components (so-called capital spares), PR
requires other items (revenue spares) which are critical for proper main-
tenance. PR has experienced severe difficulty in parts acquisition, not only
because of a shortage of foreign exchange but also because of the complexity
of its spare parts requirements and its procurement procedures. In 1981, PR
studied this problem in depth and has recently produced a report on the
supply management of diesel electric locomotive spares. This report includes
a number of sound recommendations for removing the institutional and finan-
cial obstacles preventing the smooth functioning of the spare parts procure-
ment and supply system. During negotiations for the proposed project, agree-
ments were reached aimed at removing the remaining institutional and finan-
cial obstacles for a smooth functioning of the spare parts system.
73.     The proposed project includes PR's locomotive spares needs for the
next three years. This component is estimated to cost Rs 445 million
(US$42.5 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of Rs 318
million (TJS$30.3 million equivalent). To ensure coverage of immediate needs
and make a timely start in implementing the agreed program, US$5.0 million of
the proposed Credit has been provided to assist the Government and PR in a
program to eliminate bottlenecks in spare parts acquisition.
74.     Under the project, much of the locomotive maintenance and remanufac-
ture, as well as the remanufacture of critical components, would be central-
ized at one workshop; this would optimize quality control and the use of
scarce skilled manpower and specialized facilities. The Central Diesel
Locomotive Works (CDLW) at Rawalpindi would be expanded and equipped to
enable it to play this central role in the system. In addition, to supple-
ment CDLW and to bring the fleet up to an acceptable standard of reliability
as quickly as possible, modest investments would be made to improve the
Karachi locomotive shed. Technical assistance would be provided for CDLW
during preparation of specifications, construction, commissioning and start
up. In addition, training of CDLW staff in respect of specialized tech-
nologies required for operation and maintenance of the remanufacturing
facility would be carried out by the machinery suppliers and foreign railways
with similar facilities. By December 31, 1982, the Government would furnish
to the Association, for review and comment, a comprehensive training program
for CDLW (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
75.     Management Information System.  Recognizing PR's difficulty in con-
trolling an increasingly complex transport system, provision was made under
the ongoing Tenth Railway Project for installation of a modern telecommunica-
tions network for the railways; implementation of this component is expected
to be completed by mid-1983. The installation of the telecommunications
network will provide PR with the means to improve utilization of rolling
stock and motive power, adjustment to changing freight traffic patterns and
control over day-to-day operations and costs.



-22-
76.     In order to further exploit the improved communications system and
handle the increased information which will be available, PR will need to
improve its data processing capability. The proposed project would provide
for implementation of a management information system, including a data
network, hardware and software, technical assistance and staff training. The
introduction of this management tool would be supported by the proposed
changes in the organization and management structure of PR and would
facilitate the implementation of the proposed plan of action to improve PR's
train operations described in Part III.
77.     Containerization.  There has been a sharp increase in international
container traffic to Pakistan in recent years. Until recently containers
were broken at the Karachi Port. The establishment of a regular container
service between Karachi and Lahore, with custom formalities performed at
Lahore Dry Port, which is owned and operated by PR, would facilitate interna-
tional traffic including exports; generate important savings in cargo han-
dling time, pilferage and spoilage; and reduce transport costs. The proposed
project would assist PR in developing an efficient container traffic service
by providing mobile cranes and forklifts, modification of 60 existing rail
flat wagons, and procurement of 100 additional flat wagons especially
designed for container handling. Ancillary facilities at Lahore Dry Port for
handling unit container trains would also be provided. In order to route and
keep track of containers leaving Karachi Port, the Karachi Port Trust (KPT)
would need to develop a container information system. Technical assistance
would be provided to KPT for this purpose.
78.     Technical Assistance and Training.  The proposed project would
provide technical assistance and training in a number of areas such as the
formulation of detailed plans for removing bottlenecks in train operations,
mechanical maintenance and optimal utilization of carrying capacity, and the
development of information systems for PR and KPT. Technical assistance
would also be provided in the following areas:
(a) Traffic Costing. Under the Tenth Railway Project, PR carried out a
comprehensive traffic costing exercise with the assistance of con-
sultants, to provide PR with the basis for adjustments to its fares
and tariff structure and to strengthen its marketing activities.
Under the proposed project, technical advisory services and training
would be provided for improving and strengthening PR's Costing Cell;
and
(b) Electrification. A part of PR's mainline (the 288-km Lahore-
Khanewal section) was electrified a decade ago. The original inten-
tion was to continue electrification of the mainline another 925 km
from Khanewal to Karachi; however, because of resource constraints
and investment priorities, this extension has not taken place. There
is a pressing need to arrive at a decision on the feasibility of
further electrification based on sound technical and economic



-23-
analysis; in addition, PR has shortly to make decisions concerning
the replacement of its diesel electric and steam locomotives. A
study to determine the feasibility of further electrification is
included in the proposed project. This study would be carried out in
accordance with a timetable, and on terms of reference, satisfactory
to the Association (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Implementation
79.     PR would be responsible for implementation of the project as part of
its ongoing development program, except for the port container yard informa-
tion system which would be implemented by KPT. Detailed engineering and
design of the CDLW is completed. Plans and designs for all other components
including technical assistance and training have been substantially com-
pleted. Construction of CDLW, which is scheduled to start by October 1982,
would be completed by December 1984. Tendering of plant and machinery is
scheduled for January 1983 with completion by July 1983. Consultants to be
financed under the Credit would assist PR in the implementation of the
project; technical support would also be provided by suppliers in installa-
tion of equipment, start up and monitoring of operations.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
80.     The total estimated cost of the proposed project, including taxes and
duties, is US$132.7 million. Detailed cost estimates are shown in the Credit
and Project Summary. Costs are based on estimated April 1982 prices,
adjusted for physical and price contingencies. IDA-financed expatriate
consultant costs (including allowances and overheads) have been estimated at
US$11,000 per man-month. Physical contingencies have been provided at 10% of
base cost estimates for civil works, and 7.5% for limited items of machinery
and equipment. Price contingencies for all items in the proposed project are
based on expected local cost increases of 12% in 1982 and 1983 and 11% in
1984; and 8% in 1982 and 1983 and 7.5% in 1984 for foreign costs. The rate
of inflation in Pakistan in recent years has averaged 10-12% p.a., and is
expected to remain around this level during the next few years.
81.     The proposed Credit of US$50 million, which represents about 49% of
project costs excluding taxes and duties, would finance the foreign exchange
component of all items (except the cost of revenue spare parts of which US$5
million (15%) is to be provided), as well as about 70% of the local costs of
technical assistance and staff training.  The proceeds of the Credit would be
passed on by the Government to PR at 11% p.a. for a period of 20 years,
including 4 years of grace, except for those funds used to finance additions
which would be treated as a Government contribution to an increase in the
capital-at-charge. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.



-24-
Procurement and Disbursement
82.     Items to be financed by the Association would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines except for: (a) proprietary items which PR would procure from
particular sources because of the need for procurement under license or for
continued standardization of equipment; and (b) contracts of US$50,000 equiv-
alent or less, where the advantage of ICB would be outweighed by the
administrative burden thereof. The proprietary items to be financed under
the project are estimated to cost about US$5 million equivalent, or about 10%
of the proposed Credit; these items would be used for the unit exchange
maintenance system for existing locomotives. The list of proprietary items
to be financed under the project has been agreed with PR. The total amount
of contracts less than US$50,000 equivalent not covered by ICB is estimated
to represent a very small portion (less than US$1 million equivalent) of the
proposed credit.
83.     Disbursements from the Credit would be made for (a) 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of imported items; (b) 100% of the foreign exchange
cost of training, technical advisory services and installation and inspection
of equipment; and (c) 70% of local costs of training and technical advisory
services. In order to avoid implementation.delays, an amount of US$1.25
million has been included for retroactive financing of the foreign exchange
costs of the data network and software selection for PR's Management Informa-
tion System and KPT's container marshalling program made after February 1,
1982 (Schedule I, paragraph 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
84.     The primary objective of the proposed project is to assist PR in
improving its operational performance, particularly to increase the
availability and reliability of its motive power through improved maintenance
and the introduction of a management information system. The justification
of the project is predicated on the higher utilization of PR's existing
assets, which would be achieved through:
(a) the establishment and operation of a Unit Exchange Maintenance System
that would increase the availability of motive power by reducing the
amount of locomotive downtime required for repair and maintenance.
Under the proposed system, locomotives would not have to remain idle
while their worn-out components are repaired; instead they would be
able to leave the workshops and sheds as quickly as the worn-out
components are removed and new or remanufactured ones are installed
and tested. In addition, quality control and testing equipment to be
provided under the project would result in improved quality of
remanufactured components, which would increase locomotive
reliability;



-2-
(b) the creation of a Management Information System that would utilize
the telecommunications infrastructure financed under the Tenth Rail-
way Project; and
(c) the development of container rail services between Karachi and
Lahore, which would attract to the railways a significant share of
inland container traffic between these major industrial centers.
85.     The overall economic rate of return for the project is estimated at
about 18%; the rate of return of the Unit Exchange Maintenance System is
estimated at 17%, and that of the rail container service at 29%. The overall
rate of return would drop to 14% if benefits turn out to be 15% less than
expected or if costs are 15% higher than estimated. If benefits materialize
two years later than anticipated, the rate of return would fall to 10%.
86.     The projecc's success depends critically on the Government's and PR's
continued commitment tc streamline PR's management and to give priority to
freight traffic in the allocation of motive power and line capacity. The
decisions alreadk: taken witF respect to PR's organization and management and
the eliminatior of some passenger services to provide additional train paths
for freight traffic is an encouraging indication of this commitment. Since
the proposed Unit Exchange Maintenance System, Management Information System
and container rail services are new to PR, it will be necessary to monitor
them closely during project implementation; to this end, the project is
likely to require higher than usual supervision on the part of Bank staff.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
87.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
88.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
89.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 1, 1982



-26 -                                               ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAYISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WESIGHTED AVFRACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                          -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             803.9                                  MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      249.9               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA 6 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    60.0        130.0      260.0*              232.3                1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       136.0        196.1      218.2               499.4               1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 45850.5        60448.9   79705.0*
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1           24.9       27.8                17.3                 40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         141.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          340.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         57.0         75.2      99.1                153.6                373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    201.0          249.0     309.4                360.3               2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.8         46.3      46.4                 37.4                 39.8
15-64 YR9.                           51.8         50.5      50.7                 59.2                 56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     4.4          3.2        2.9                 3.5                  3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.3          2.8        3.1                 2.1                  2.3
URBAN                                4.6          4.0        4.3                 3.4                  3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       48.4         47.3       44.4                27.7                 29.7
CRUDE DEATN RATE (PER THOUSAND)       22.6         17.4       14.3                10.2                  7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2          3.7        3.2                 2.5                  1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANN`UAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       1908.1    2085.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..       6.0                 20.4                 44.1
FOOD AND NUIRlTION
INDEX Ot NOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAIITA (1969-71-100)            89.0        102.0     101.0                107.1                123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OU
REQUIREMiENTS)                    83.0         97.0      99.0                 98.6                112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            55.0         60.0      63.0                 56.9                 62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         22.0         20.0      20.0                 14.2                 19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       24.0         18.4       14.8                14.6                  4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 3IRTH (YEARS)    43.5           48.8       52.2                57.7                 64.0
INFAt.T MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            135-0/c         ..         ..                89.1                 50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         21.0       29.0                30.1                 45.9
URBAN                                 ..         77.0      60.0                 65.8                 68.0
RURAL                                 ..          4.0       17.0                20.1                 34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          3.0        6.0                17.6                 53.4
URBAN                                 ..         12.0       21.0                71.0                 71.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                 4.8                 42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           I100O.O/d    4299.0/e  3758.0/e              3857.7               4428.7
POPULATION PER NUHSING PERSON           ..      13305.9/e  9984.8/e             6411.8               2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1742.9       1860.1    1894.8               1132.8                588.5
URBAN                              507.2        648.5     709.2                322.3                579.6
RURAL                            22850.0      12476.0   11819.6               5600.5               1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER IIOSPITAL BED            ..           ..         ..
HOUSING
ATVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.4          5.3
URBAN                                5.5          5.5
RUB-AL                               5.4          5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                3.1          2.8/f
URBAN                                3.1          2.77        ...
RURAL                                3.1          2.87T       ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWLI'L.tINGS)
TOIAL                                 ..         17.9/f       ..
URBAN                                 ..         54.4/f       .                   .
RUKAL                                 ..          4.97         .



- 27 -                                                 ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE ChOUPS (.EICHGED A       't; AES
PAKISTAN                              -  MOST RECENT EST1M,E)
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INC(-ME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMAT /b        ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA 6 PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  30.0        44.0       51.0                 85.9                 99.8
MALE                  46.0         62.0      69.0                 94.4                100.6
FEMALE                13.0         24.0       32.0                64.5                 98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         14.0      17.0/                38.0/aa              53.5
MALE                  18.0         22.0       25. OI.             34 . 6/as.           58.4
FEMALE                 3.0          6.0       8.07                18.0o7a              48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Y OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.5       1.5/l                3.8                 21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0        41.0       40.0                 32.8                 34.2
SECONDARY                           24.0         20.0      19.0/1               19.9                 31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.0/Sj      20.7      24.0                 52.8                 86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0          2.6       2.8                  1.7                 12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0        17.1       66.8                35.3                 174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          1.6       8.3                 3.7                  50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCLLATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    7.0           ..       13.3                14.6                106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8            3.0/h      ..                  3.4                  4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.6        17364.1   21787.1
F.MALE (PERCENT)                     8.6         9.3       10.4                 29.3                 37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               60.8         58.9      57.2                 69.8                 50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  17.9        18.7       19.9                14.1                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.5         28.7      27.3                 39.7                 40.Z
KALE                                  55.2         50.4       47.5                51.5                 49.8
FEMALE                                 5.7          5.5        5.9                23.3                 31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.7        1.8                 1.1                  1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/i         17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.3/i        41.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.4/i          8.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/i        20.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..        68.0      176.0                134.1                248.6
RURAL                                 ..        47.0      122.0                111.6                193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..        34.0       88.0                   ..                249.8
RURAL                                 ..        22.0       58.0                   ..                234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..        42.0       32.0                41.7                  21.2
RURAL                                 ..        43.0       29.0                 51.7                 32.2
Not available
Not applIcable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-eighted arithEmetic means.  Coverage of coontries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/sa China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estioate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962-65;  /d Includes Bangladesh;  /e Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /f 1973;
/g 1960-62;  /h 1972;  /i 1963-64;  /L  1975.
*    The updated 19: 0 r NP pr p -pita od Tp-pu ,UIi   Cti''atC-  o
,300 (at 1978-1980 SO a  g.' pricS) acS 82,153,(00 re-pr cti.' 15.                        Kay, 1981



-28 -                                                                      AMNEX I
9.tea    Oithorsf  the detect..:   drava tro                  I,negneal    ndsed oh.   st1 auhr toi ed rs1(chit, it ehold elan ha tote  that tly sa          both  ta-a--
saicelyoo      rtl   e aeo   cha  ako   tadrfa  deficiit-otnadrnn-ertaoas   by dtfftreoooctracit  olc  o o  data   ma dat  te    et
tha.1.. -f1 td-srr th  od... of saotd.fdbt    ooe   n   nrcefa'rats7 diff--e.t btateo  ontte
ttertersoa  gorapara  If  heecotyrctftaofcr.or   a   latoc   arohitsoeeahl5h- .srs                                                 ,.tega   tcetntha.      atyr
ton tad Oato  etth,         , the cutrycdrfcso,ore
forocu..  eatres  ta ke-co  ofoh-,  gerdura    t. noi(h  !ahoo; (979 date,                forho - itcorcee.np.i.estu   tett    atctl                                stff
Aby tolaroephy,r. tt   Et-blfal nacrodo   tfop-iosn
219ff  sod 1009 dats.                                                                              taolacfont  ote .aditeoIhrofert- pa,tfnao -
datfo  an  prf-da a Ifata   rc-  oftdfateltas                   ete i-
1trtotty   ft kflstac  of roe  r              -taao   e   -spc-  1900]  (970, ed1979                -srr.Oe  a  .    oeetl   r   oldlcly  -rd- torsO
Pen  haspftals dloOded by t. oah-r of bade.
Intl ftcafio.fOd-br  choaada)- e  f Jnly 1; 1960, 1970. and 1979                   MMhI70
Orbo Ppucfr  (ec t of cocel)  A- je f,  toru  00frfppfto                                               oshl   osaer      aopo   offcnesnsatfea    at
dlffl,      e ff  oc,   thraessynfaoreeablt   fdt                                                adtctst  sas:                  crdro   otoea   osyathafM.ddb
afia  nofffa;lu I, 1]]  en 979 data,teknaadfrstteha   otee
frl, nh       eel   fes peracf  aobfftio  c  7]I  aer. he -re                                  -noteornnn  defllj  r th cfrtr-ft   On Iof;ortesoarnee
ttrttfttperrcrotro  co torreo  liner coo peso feeclc platoine  perfootceoa. ~ _tt. :".-d I   1            ti.
taohrouory  c o.sr  esfordcoo  f ceat  Oosrocoonou ho oftralo              lIdIO
and fsrct.bycso   for proirrf cr  urpeaaiho .es  tnrflno  taoooe =                                                                 :
Stronr o. or-l2riro-(Moesce   frdnnrr. pouafotcor   a  ogrsh  ic                                frft.   ahool - coa. aaca   fcla   - Grs                 e . see  ad-1
thatchrts   sroacohacncrts.edesohatasrncuars                     arolsotoelasoeotrpceeylooelsPercr-tagsfacatt
eaborutcao      ole saareaesd cj   fo   cr01fy  ae-nrly    onpOetecol-eepploor;tral  fcna    blde   s ho
.hrreeaorec                  btntrtdrioes    recahatrto..r    ntducdedtssoascafc.reaatn    a
sta 9h 0.h !Cr  -d17 re -0.eP-,n,l  a  12 . to0  fneofeecoraoear  coee  r   soel
ontal area; 190], 197) sod 1000 doos.                                   tolada tehofre.  on"tra. roce  ptr    eboch oprtehde
fco; 190],97,  to7ri, 1 7itn %.                                                           too-tyltrr   nacaoai-Irrt   dlefhst   ae                                  eta
yea 9ppuarbr   f9c :07RL16-1.adlc-O
fntlsfr  Goa    cae   oeoeo--.1  fcn     d-lahnu l.srn   as  of1 urhe  earn                                      I f599
le_1oa tr pi     0-3    -903.an   007                                                           fca-r  as(a  tico                p.rolefOoof -;T ycswr  ar           .As ase
fopultOon;1900,1970  sod  079 non.iOlitay ctbrlta
frod teah tco 7tc rous-c  -hocol dachapettlh--ad   f  O-er                          a     ecor  corboen   onaoc      fftrso   ator   a   eh
Yom   Ms Oo;10]  13. oMlr  fet,                                                                      rodoascet  teIf s I     rt - -   pa1-o-oa  off     rsftoe   aaa
Gron crcdooir h  o-ocrat  oaar  f  argctre   araneni barbeifRMo.e..de astore Onorotoa    ad t  ysr  shL- netrtta   t
panrelrrouocedrrdofaeopostn-'csocsd oeffot-casnatsf"                                                              -itco;ettrrrotaeraye1-renrtee
tfOypte;  se lyfc-traanetdt   010,0M.ad17.fs  otntro.  ehl ai                                                                 lca.fg
Peec _d Olofoa_ctooce.   ora   2rueo                      -t- ona   nuhs  cI sftoarr:0tofes(r  ioardoolor        tooteatobad tb
ofhottrocnidrcraoctcuecce.fnaion  fe..yrloon  fose.                       ante  rhfrfr  rooet.  ptusoa;  otucaaloees    0  aCber
?ant-otlenr              --op-t -t-ero t-re191oo5faar-deu-T-ost-or-pacoaeofU,- oororsedeynsOnaieitetuo    otlyacassP- .
.t.   1.   't.d Id 1.0 b ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    phlrefn dprord- polerol  toti.   1enctn   gos   Mosa   ft 9s79              ada
te  ofloe   rchel.0 0foeroc   rsr    of   ag bugtoraen  a'Il .                                         no...ft   ._s,f~ 190
ratto holarfde pr-d1 19      or1- e ot970 ; 1901-90.L 37.e.          90dt.                    Too9ooo Poror  otoad(-fa-sc7yato    etna    eld
sesce tare eafee   by - f hoar  cc p-1dco0cn               byed  tor rrse  soof Thirehlo  te cordoeg  of1 ros Ulaho force;l 199.  1971  en617  dAca
enld son-ot-b-fo  of65 ouyleoon  no-          irio1   sretfrtasad                                    sin t  Irccy Ieter anf   a   e  acoat   fttl  ee;a-e   O
heanehfd toer  01-5  197"   and 007]                  9-.  90                17 d.te.          107-   cod 1009 dar
PaMsild     arcyo  croon, tckea 0c                - cyC-PrrIcroroeh    of, pe LaOe.ytoa o   orftcor    ntl  le   o    rae-Probetse
qg  ..nis     r 1  l4  rnotioa..1 ssstihrd  by 10_ prof. _Or Oc   nfprersa-ffca.ai   o  fatala.. .ocaoo   f  l  a t  eaetie
aloorrctrno   ]feso   oe A_Iootf196ar day. snd 190 octeec   ci.                 n               190.19,ndl79dc, Tsnraasdn  0 'prfte atte
atOna  "ooefo  sa arc ensag  fo   o   olo   ypsd  yrdt   haTId                              SootcDooyorh                   - 1hif  of-pon-itin  cadt If-       sCedts
tarO  fndtoref  19r-o.  00  nr  -Ir dern.   cf  the toAlb ehrore
Per osnton proorfo.ndojy Occa anferel ar~~~pyiso  - trroercAt.,ryly of1fnod-dr-
trts dta  rrtsd  rceltf   celes  190,  97 ..rd.. 1979   T'11~ Anc.                   o-tnea-ld.            " I _           _ I    -
gtdt.T   i ....   f .0t _o__ntTUto-D-o h
Icfstcrlortalooy,3orairtnchnuaardl-honoai  desoranftrfercsncdar otsyter  ~ ~   ~       ~        7".                       dl-d ft
koocetotaf lecooj11cec cOpocuet orj   c,Snl a   ar.endintl,-.  bot                o      irtOrll  edeq--ts  tt  pine   ..       caact i co-on i aqo-r,t. ......
her  f popte]frei.urha. eO  roelltcirencrnhsaccsacesf                          efod IaOfep.til                          
eae=   ool   fcdaefabdeo   r   snr   ruornr   u  urraioodIosae  eeln   ororlrs   ow   Lh   .a  soel-uhnea   oa 
rsfrerhofhof.cs             _ttt  .  t    _ prcrebrhoe.coo.et   eetoroel;a                        urfricoscoerhocsiclOoa-orffrashprer
of p I cceysrnacooao-e. leoohnrreuti
fnnaoOcauoalrodorre-]totfoenesneproeo...fh-onr.. Uhoeefdttsforant
coeOdatd  c  aot srbo  feeoro lcrsseof  he  hose.Iruraacts  loa  eOO e]carstt  eyhocer  oelofD-nce  n  rha  nr 1e
-h  1.t.-      pit  pli-.                          foierdftnnornrOnpccurros                        1r rrsieei(erecidr
osocoals  crce  rrc   sy I. ohr-i.t d- ecf   r  tbrdf  h   ooehi                           n0rus       ereto          1rcsOnlrtnndmtofacoe  aelt
dctthoecccrid:cronrOoeoard-dctdnyb ct-o-hfo htpc



- 29 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
;Doss NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980/81                                                                                                  ANNUAL RATE 0i GRDWTE (7, constant prices)
108$ billion        Z                                                                 .9b9/70-1974/75       1975/76-1980/81        1980/81
GNP at Marker Prices                          29.99         100.0                                                                     3.5                    6.3                6.2
Cross Domest-r   investment                    4.87          16.2                                                                     N.5                    5.4                4.4
Gross National Saving                          3.94          13.1                                                                    -2.1                    8.2               10.3
Cr-ent A.ccount Balance                      -0.95
.es...rc  Gap                                -2.93           -9.8                                                                     6.7                  13.1              -29.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 197918/OL
Value Added             Labor Porce         V.A. Pen Worker
US$ million             Millin       i       US$  million      N
Agric-lt-re                     7,338           30       13.2       54           571           56
lndostry                        6,490           26        4.5       18        1 ,442          141
iernices                       11,127           44        6.9       28        1,o13           158
Toct./Averoge                25,155         100        24.6      100        1,021           100
COVERNMENT FiNANCE
lonco-l Co-ernaroc                                              Central do-ernonot
(Rs billion)                Z of COP         _IR  billion-                               7 of GDP
1980/81            1980/81      1976/77-I98y -             1980/81            1980/8E       1976/77-1980/81
C-rrent Receisrt                     46.8               16.9            10.2                    In.!               13.0             12.4
Correct Esp-oditure-                 36.9               13.3            14.0                    2d.o               10.3             10.5
Current S-rpl-o/Defic-t             100.0                3.6              2.2                    7.5                2.7              1.9
C.apital Expeoditunes                25.0                9.0              9.7                   C                   7.8              7.8
E.ternal Assistance (net)             5.7                2.0              3.0                    5.                 2.0              3.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75      1975/7b      1976/77       1977/76      o572n75       1979/nD
Moe-y and Quasi Monet                          33.1          41.6          51.7         o3.7          7,.5         90.7          :04.0
Bank Credit -o Pobl-c Sdocor t-st)             17.7          22.9          29.1         34.3         1i.1          u8.1           33.8
Bank Credit to Privote Sector (grson)          19.7          23.1          30.1         35.7          42.1         50.t           538.
Money ond Quasi Mosey ob Z GDP                 31.s          34.3          38.1         40.'         >2.N           -.7           11.2
Wholes-le  Pri-e Index (1969/70 = 100)    211.3             229.4         '55.3        271.4         CB.          316.7          358.8
Anoual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price loden                          23.6            5.6         11.3          9.3           s.7          9.c           13.3
ank Condot to Publ- SDctor (lot)               21.2          29.4          28.8         16.6          '5,h 1:0                   '1.8
a-k Credut to Private Sector (gross)           26.3          17.3          30.3         18.6          i9.G          8.l.          16.0
/a  Labor force data arc official figures of the Mionstru of Pin...  nod Plaing.  dri:n  oden-rao   a                           it.  -peia11, s   omen.
/4 Poovosiosal.
Not applicable.
Fehb-vry 1982



* 30 -
ANNER I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                            (US$ million)                                              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGING 1977/78-19O/oi2
1976/77      1977/78        1978/79        1979/80        1980/81 /a                                           us$ million          7
Exports of Goods., NFS                                  1,404         1,651          2,107          2,955          3,450                Raw Cotton                       259.4             8.5
I=ports of Goods., NFS                                  2,877         3,297         4,485           5,709         6,385                 Cotton Yarn                      i79.3             9.8
Resooree Gap (deficit = - )                            -1,473        -1,646         -2,378         -2,754        -2,935                 Cotton Cloth                     219.2            12.4
Rice                            393.7            19.6
lnterost Pay=entn                                        -172          -183           -261           -285           -322                All Other Coneodition         1,034.6             49.7
Workers' Renittasnes                                      578         1,166          1,395          1,748          2,117                   Total                       2,085.7          1l0.0
Othir Factor Payments (sot)                                 15           62            134            151            193
Net Transfers                                               ..            .E. ..                       ..             ..                        XTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Balance on Correct Account                             -1,052          -601         -1,110         -1,140           -947
iSS millicn
Diront Foroigs Investment                                   ..            ._. .. 
Net MLT Bornowing                                                                                                                        Public Debt, Including Guaranteed            8,775.3
Disburse=ents                                           961           841            813         1,134          1,067                 Non-gorn-tned Prinate Debt If
Amortization                                           -175          -122           -235           -310           -358                  Total Ontstanding and Dinbonsed            8,775.3
Sub Total                                               786           719            578            824            709
Trans actions with IMF /b                                  44            41            -14             78            331                     DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/80  afg
Other Items n.e.i. /n                                       24          163            238            600            217                                                            USi  eillion
Increase in Renerves (-                                   198          -322            308           -362           -310                Poblic Debt, lcloditig Guran.teed              12.1
Grons Reserves (yeon end) /d                              372           694            386            748          1,058                Non-gooranteed Pri-cte Debt
Net Renervos (year end) /e                               -146           150            -92            340            330
Official Gold (year end;  illi-n onces)                    1.6          1.7            1.8            1.8            1.8                  IBRD/IDA LENDINi (SEPTEMBER 1981) (USS million)
Fnel and Related Materials                                                                                                                                                             RD       IDA
Petroleu= Imports                                         413           497            530          1,079          1,535                Outs-anding and Dinbunsod                   312.2    825.6
Petnoleom EDports                                          27            63             61            178            169               UCdisbur-ed                                   36.5    549.9
Outstanding, including Udisbursed          348.7  1,375.5
RACE OF EXCHANGE
Throngh May 11, 1972        May 11, 1972 - Febr-any 15, 1973           February 15, 1973 - January 8, 1982    Jan/h
US$ = Rn 4.7619                  US$ = 11.09                                   USS = 9.90                          US$ = 10.1
R.  = USSO.2100                  Rn  = 0.0909                                  Rn  = 0.1010                        R.  = 0.09
/a  Gioeremn. t estimate.
/b Including Tront FPnd.
/c Including net short-term borrowing and ernor- and omissions.
/d Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
/e Exc-iding use of IMF credit.
If Private debt is negligible.
/g Ratio of debt service to exports of goods, non-factor services and workers' r-nittuncs; not including uhort-tern cr IMF charges.
/h  Since January 8, 1982, valne of rupee is being mnoaged with reference to a weighted basket of currencies.
.ot availoble.
Feb.uary 1982



- 31 -                 ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982)
(US$ million)
Loan/                                                  (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit  Fiscal                                                                  Undis-
Number   Year    Purpose                                Bank   TW        IDA    bursed
Eighty loans and credits fully disbursed /a            611.2           634.3
492     1974   Fourth Karachi Port                      --               16.0    0.4
1107    1975   Fourth Sui Northern Gas                  53.0            --       0.7
546     1975   Industrial Development (NDFC)            --               30.0    0.5
1208T   1976   Power (Second WAPDA)                     --    32.0      --       1.8
620     1976   Seed Project                             --              23.0    7.5
1326    1976   Development Finance (PICIC X)            25.0            --       0.4
630     1976   Second Lahore Water Supply               --              26.0    7.4
648     1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)         --               14.0    7.0
1366T   1977   Livestock Development (Punjab)           --    10.0      __       9.8
1372)   1977   Railways                                 35.0            --      12.8
684 )   1977   Railways                                 --              25.0    1.3
678     1977   Third Education                          --               15.0    7.8
751     1977   Hill Farming Development                 --                3.0    1.6
754     1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation           --              70.0   69.1
755     1978   Hazara Forestry Pre-investment           --                1.7    1.5
813     1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.                --               12.5    7.8
846     1978   Fauji Fertilizer                         --              55.0    6.6
867     1979   Toot Oil & Gas Development               --              30.0    2.5
877     1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    --                  60.0   58.8
892     1979   Primary Education                        --               10.0    8.6
922     1979   Sind Agricultural Extension              --               9.0    9.0
957     1979   Agricultural Development (ADBP)          --              30.0   17.6
968     1980   Power (Third WAPDA)                      --              45.0   39.2
974     1980   Third Highway                            --               50.0   41.3
1019    1980   Development Finance (PICIC XI)           --              40.0   29.2
1066    1981   Fertilizer Imports                       --              50.0   29.4
1109    1981   Vocational Training                      --              25.0   25.0
1113    1981   Small Industries                         --              30.0   29.9
1157    1981   Grain Storage                            --              32.0   32.0
1158/b  1981   Agricultural Research                    --              24.0   24.0
1163    1981   On-Farm Water Management                 --              41.0   41.0
1186/b  1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)         --              30.0   30.0
Total                                                  724.2  42.0  1,432.5  561.5
of which has been repaid                             432.3   --       28.4
Total now outstanding                                  291.9  42.0  1,404.1
Amount sold                   23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                      --      --      --
Total now held by Bank and IDA/c                       291.9  42.0  1,404.1
Total undisbursed                                       13.9  11.6    536.0  561.5
/a  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for
projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by
Bangladesh.
/b  Not yet effective.
/c  Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                                Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business       Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel           0.63      --       0.63
Pakistan Ltd.         Products
1959     Adamjee Industries   Textiles                 0.75      --        0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement       Cement                 5.25    0.42        5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                  Development             --      0.52      0.52
1969-                           Financing
1975
1965     Crescent Jute          Textiles               1.84    0.11        1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products         4.43    0.84        5.27
1980
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                  5.38    2.02        7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules        Fertilizers            1.00    2.92        3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper       Pulp and Paper         5.60    0.63        6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Ltd.           Food and Food          2.40    0.39        2.79
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals and           29.00    1.82       30.82
Ltd. and Attock       Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.
1980     Fauji Foundation       Woven Polypropy-       1.78      --        1.78
lene bags
1980     Premier Board          Particle Board         2.70      --        2.70
Mills Ltd.
1981     Habib Arkady           Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17        3.32
Total Gross Commitments                     63.91    9.84       73.75
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                 38.85    1.01      39.86
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC           25.06    8.83       33.89
Undisbursed (including participants)         3.15    0.53        3.68



- 33 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771         Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Work to construct a flip-bucket at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is in
progress and will be completed in 1983. Serious erosion in the plunge pool
below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection
works which, together with work in the downstream channel, were completed in
June 1980. Similar protection work in the auxiliary plunge pool is virtually
completed. Since 1975, irrigation requirements from the dam have been met.
Power generation by the first four units began in 1977. Construction of a
second power plant with six units is in progress. All Credit proceeds have
been disbursed; the Bank continues to administer the Tarbela Development
Fund.
Credit No. 492         Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project is completed and, as of March 31, 1982, disbursements
amounted to US$15.6 million. The balance is committed and final withdrawals
are expected by end-April 1982.
Loan No. 1107          Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60 Million Loan of May 15,
1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Closing Date of the Loan has been extended to December 31, 1982
to allow the Borrower to utilize undisbursed funds toward increasing the
capacity of the Islamabad/Rawalpindi natural gas distribution system. Con-
struction should be completed in June 1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
Credit No. 546         National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30 Million Credit of May 15, 1975; Effective
Date: July 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1981. The undisbursed amount
(about US$0.5 million) will be cancelled in April 1982.
Loan No. 1208-T        Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Most of the project components were commissioned in the last quarter
of 1980. Some payments are outstanding pending final commissioning of the
remaining components. The Government has requested an extension of the
Closing Date to September 30, 1982 to accommodate payment of these sums.
Credit No. 620         Seed Project:  US$23 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project implementation remains behind schedule, with the most impor-
tant delays being the construction and equipping of three processing plants
in Punjab due to disputes with civil works contractors. As presently
scheduled, the Punjab component should be completed by June 1983. The plant
in Sind is complete except for some silos and the machinery is installed.
The Closing Date, originally December 31, 1981, has been extended to June 30,
1983.
Loan No. 1326          Development Finance Company (PICIC IX):  US$25 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date: November
29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This Loan was closed on December 31, 1981. The undisbursed amount
(about US$0.4 million) will be cancelled in April 1982.
Credit No. 630         Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project: US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
All major works have been contracted. Construction delays, however,
continue and will probably cause a further delay in project completion.



- 35 -
Credit No. 648         Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming
Development Project: US$14 Million Credit of July 22,
1976; Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date:
July 31, 1982
Overall progress is currently about two years behind schedule due to
delays in employing consultants and procurement problems. Canal remodeling,
surveys, and extension services are proceeding satisfactorily but the tile
and collector drain construction has progressed slowly. Actions have been
initiated with the Association's concurrence to curtail cost overruns and
reduce completion delays.
Loan No. 1366-T        Punjab Livestock Development:  US$10 Million Third
Window Loan of February 18, 1977; Effective Date;
August 3, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Government and the Bank have conditionally agreed on a revised
project which would aim to rehabilitate the Lahore Milk Plant and to estab-
lish about 300 Village Livestock Associations and their related service
activities. The contract of the milk plant consultants has been extended to
cover the period of construction and commissioning of the plant.
Loan No. 1372          Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and                 Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684         Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The telecommunications and
signaling scheme is making good progress and the complete network is expected
to be commissioned before mid-1983. Procurement has been completed and the
total proceeds of the Loan/Credit have been committed.
Credit No. 678         Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is generally making good progress. Nearly all of civil
works contracts have been awarded and about 80% have been completed. One
project study has been completed and the two others are nearing completion.
About 70% of the project equipment has been procured and the balance is in
the process of procurement. Technical assistance specialist services are now
being provided satisfactorily and about 90% of the fellowships have been used
or committed. Project implementation in Sind and Baluchistan is behind
schedule by about one year, due to initial delays in building construction.



- 36 -
Credit No. 751         Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Staff vacancies are causing implementation problems, and the com-
ponents dealing with fodders, demonstration farms, apples and land-use are
progressing slowly.  Nevertheless, most technical developments are progress-
ing satisfactorily and the training program is on schedule. A draft proposal
for a follow-up project has been received. Expenditures and disbursements
have been less than expected because of cost savings and procurement delays.
Credit No. 754         SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
Although the project is about three years behind schedule, sig-
nificant momentum has now begun in project implementation following the
resolution of budgetary and other initial problems. Progress has been made
in awarding the first civil works contracts and obtaining necessary equip-
ment, vehicles and materials.
Credit No. 755         Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been significant progress in different project activities.
The Guzara socio-economic study, chir pine forest inventory and pulping test
for chir pine, and the first phase of the feasibility study have been com-
pleted. As a result of these developments, the final phase of the
feasibility study is expected to commence in the Fall of 1982.
Credit No. 813         Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:
US$ 12.5 Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective
Date: September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is behind schedule despite some progress in staff
recruitment, acquisition of building sites and construction work. Implemen-
tation of the T&V system and the research-extension linkages continue to be
weak. Low salaries for village level staff and delays in recruiting consult-
ants remain problems.
Credit No. 846         Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The plant is nearing completion and commercial production is due to
start in April 1982.



- 37 -
Credit No. 867         Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Two new producing oil wells in the Toot field have recently been
completed despite very difficult drilling problems. However, serious
well-drilling and management problems still persist. Project implementation
is about 15 months behind schedule. The Closing Date, originally December
31, 1981, has been extended to March 31, 1983, to allow completion of the
original 8-well drilling program.
Credit No. 877         Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mar-
dan: US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Effec-
tive Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
Initial budgetary and other problems have been resolved and CIDA (the
project co-financier) is assisting WAPDA in scheduling implementation
activities as well as in preparing subsurface drainage design and specifica-
tions. The project is about two years behind schedule.
Credit No. 892         Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Good progress is being maintained. About 80% of the project inputs
including civil works, equipment, staff appointments and training have been
provided with less than six months' delay. The evaluation program is being
redesigned after the experiences gained in the first 18 months of evaluation.
Credit No. 922         Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project: US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979; Effec-
tive Date: June 26, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Critical staff has been recruited and project implementation has
started. Recruitment of consultants has been delayed pending signing of a
project agreement between UNDP and the Government.
Credit No. 957         Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million
Credit of December 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 5,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the agricultural credit component has been satis-
factory and the agricultural engineering training component has begun. It is
anticipated that project completion will be about one year behind schedule.



- 38 -
Credit No. 968         Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Despite some delays, mainly in land acquisition, execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement action schedules and
construction targets for substations and transmission lines are generally
being met.
Credit No. 974         Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Effective Date: August 21, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1984
Of the five rehabilitation contracts, two are nearing completion, one
has been terminated due to poor performance by the contractor and re-awarded,
and work is progressing slowly on the remaining two contracts. Discussions
are in progress on equipment procurement and provision of technical assis-
tance to two provincial governments to improve road maintenance, and several
contractors have shown interest in using loans through IDBP for purchase of
mechanical equipment.
Credit No. 1019        PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit of
May 30, 1980; Effective Date: October 29, 1980; Clos-
ing Date: March 31, 1984
As of March 31, 1982, about US$29 million had been authorized for
sub-loans and US$10.8 million disbursed. The Government and PICIC have taken
corrective measures to improve collections on past sub-loans, and implementa-
tion of the project is proceeding well.
Credit No. 1066        Fertilizer Imports Credit:  SDR 38.2 Million Credit
(US$50 Million equivalent) of October 17, 1980; Effec-
tive Date: December 1, 1980; Closing Date: September
30, 1982
As of March 1982, about US$21 million had been committed. The Clos-
ing Date, originally June 30, 1981, has been extended to September 30, 1982
to accommodate the award of contract for and shipment of the remaining fer-
tilizer under the project.
Credit No. 1109        Fifth Education (Vocational Training):  SDR 19.7 Mil-
lion Credit (US$25 Million equivalent) of April 24,
1981; Effective Date: October 27, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
Agreements have been reached with ILO for the provision of technical
assistance services and for procurement of equipment, and a contract signed
with architectural consultants for the provision of design services. The



- 39 -
institutional and in-plant training components are about six months behind
schedule.
Credit No. 1113        Small Industries:  SDR 23.6 Million Credit (US$30
Million equivalent) of April 24, 1981; Effective Date:
October 6, 1981, Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Sub-loan commitment started in January 1982 after key commercial bank
loan officers were trained in November/December 1981. Bidding for equipment
and selection of consultants for the service centers are in progress.
Evaluation of proposals and selection of consultants for the export promotion
and the project development components are ongoing.
Credit No. 1157        Grain Storage:  SDR 26.1 Million Credit (US$32 Million
equivalent) of October 21, 1981; Effective Date: March
15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit was declared effective on March 15, 1982.
Credit No. 1158        Agricultural Research:  SDR 19.7 Million Credit (US$24
Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Effective Date:
April 29, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1163        On-Farm Water Management:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(US$41 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Effec-
tive Date: March 31, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1984
This Credit was declared effective on March 30, 1982.
Credit No. 1186        Second Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP II): SDR 26.7 Million Credit (US$30 Million
equivalent) of February 19, 1982; Effective Date:
May 19, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 40 -                        ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:
Two years
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
Pakistan Railways
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank, and date
of first Bank Mission to consider the project:
April 1979 and August 1980
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
October 30, 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
May 12, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1982
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) PR to carry out detailed action plans to strengthen
organization and management, including staffing. Progress
to be reviewed annually and actions for following year to
be determined in consultation with the Association
(paragraph 45);
(ii) PR's total revenues should be sufficient to cover variable
costs of passenger/freight operations and services and
provide operating surplus (paragraph 58);
(iii) By December 31, 1982, Government to furnish to the
Association, for review and comment, a comprehensive
training program for CDLW (paragraph 74); and
(iv) Study to determine feasibility of electrification to be
carried out in accordance with timetable and on terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association (paragraph 78).



I



IBRD 16207R
RIO'                                                                       U.         , ' S   X  r  ; 5 R  dD3ne7Fg { t 64Q  58  A \   /   5  APRIL 1902
64~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~U.S.S.R.                                                     r N          '- -
F5ADEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF                                                    - 
<o -tr    "NR>UT'J  -AFGHANISTAN
IAI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ I 
PAKISTAN                                                                   A                                                                      ANR,  rn
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT   V    jS                                                                                           p
SNAtHRE DRY PART                                                         'UKbCNwtSwPz    !0 
N      -AAlhNP DAD Il                                                         T I T. 
WA|   RN^                                                            f'-**F      Cot Rl, NF TRC    Br      i)                -
-32~~~~~~N4   NFOAGUNE. SNC  NGLK.F TRACY                                                         .      Nnr2
)-.t  'ROD 5.11 A 1  .1AN. RACi
, j S < ,. ll,,tEl,EI-1,1E. 1E1T II
IW. R A    ND--<J7I N D I A
I R A N~~~  RDNOS                                                                                     N 
     NArAN  OU TA                            T     I js .FT                                                                       No'R               .       -  0Mle   q
_2 R A  9 I A  N           5E A/                                   A,,A,                                                                  i
-           -~~~~~*--"~2/' ",                                                       pNN,wtuYo N-0  2 AA. '   ),-,E 



