Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3818-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
May 25, 1982
Transportation Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =  Rupees (Rs)
US$1.0            =  Rs 10.5
US$0.0952         =  Rs 1.00 (= Paisa 100)
US$95,238         =  Rs 1.0 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                       British/US System
1 meter (m)               =  3.281 feet
1 square meter (m2)       =  10.760 square feet
1 ton kilometer (km)      =  0.621 ton-mile
1 passenger-km (pass-km) =  0.621 pass-mile
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AC   -  Alternating Current
BG   -  Broad Gauge
CDLW - Central Diesel Locomotive Works
CIDA - Canadian International Development Agency
CIF  -  Cost, Insurance, Freight
DF   -  Development Fund
DRF  -  Depreciation Reserve Fund
GOP  -  Government of Pakistan
KPT  -  Karachi Port Trust
LDP  -  Lahore Dry Port
MG   -  Meter Gauge
MIS  -  Management Information System
MOR  -  Ministry of Railways
MTDP - Pakistan Railways' Medium Term Development Plan
NG   -  Narrow Gauge
NLC  -  National Logistics Cell
PER  -  Pakistan Eastern Railways
POH  -  Periodic Overhaul
POL  -  Petroleum, Oil and Lubricants
PR   -  Pakistan Railways
PWR  -  Pakistan Western Railways
TEU  -  Twenty-Foot Equivalent Unit
UEMS - Unit Exchange Maintenance System
UEP  -  Unit Exchange Pool
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF AN ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.       THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...... ..............                               1
A.  Background         ....................1................... 
B.  The Transport Sector .............................                   I
C.  Transport Policy and Investment .............                       5
II.      PAKISTAN RAILWAYS ....... ...............                                7
A.  Organization, Management and Staff  ....              ...........   7
B.  Railway Infrastructure  ...........................                 8
C. Motive Power and Rolling Stock.                                      9
D. Operations.                                                          9
E. PR's Role and Prospects .10
F. Railway Investment Plan .11
G.  Performance Under Previous Projects .14
III.     THE PROJECT        .....................     .....................      15
A.  Background ................... ....................                16
B.  Objectives ................... ....................                16
C.   Description ...................           ...................     16
D.  Cost Estimates  .................................                  24
E .  Financing ........................................                26
F.   Implementation .................           ..................     26
G.  Procurement  ...................           ...................     27
H.  Disbursements  ..................           ..................     27
IV.      ECONOMIC EVALUATION   ................             .................    28
A.   General ..........................................                28
B.  Locomotive Maintenance Improvements  ....             ..........   28
C.  Rail Container Operation .........................                 31
D.  Management Information System, Technical
Assistance and Training ......................                  33
E.  Economic Justification and Sensitivity Analysis                    33
F.  Risks .........             ......................  .    34
This report was prepared by Messrs. M. Melrose (Railway Engineer), E. Pogson
(Financial Analyst), M. Pulgar-Vidal (Economist) and A. Sabeti (Railway
Specialist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.      FINANCE AND EARNINGS .................................   34
A.  Introduction .......     ..............................    34
B.  Recent Changes in Financial Policies .......... ...   34
C.  Past Performance          ...............  35
D.  The Next Few Years .......    ........................    38
E. Financing Plan              .. .40
VI.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............. .   42
ANNEXES
1.    Documents Available in Project File ....      ..............   43
2.    Plan of Action for Improving the Operational and
Financial Performance of Pakistan Railways .... .....   44
3.    Terms of Reference for a Study of the Future Role
of Railway Transport in Pakistan ....      ...............   47
4.    The Basis for Financial Forecasts .....       ...............   50
TABLES
1.    PR's Freight Traffic by Main Commodities
from 1969/70 to 1980/81 ......      ......................    53
2.    PR's Passenger Traffic from 1959/60 to 1980/81 .......      54
3.    PR's Staff by Department and Category as of
July 1, 1981 .........     ..............................    55
4.    Inventory of PR Track ................................    56
5.    Inventory of Motive Power and Rolling Stock
(Actual Numbers) for Broad Gauge, Meter Gauge
and Narrow Gauge ...................................   57
6.    Diesel Locomotive Fleet - Age, Class and
Manufacturer .......................................   60
7.    Selected Operating Statistics (1975/76-1980/81)             61
8.    Medium-Term Plan 1981/82-1983/84 and the Project            62
9.    Maintenance Modernization - Cost Estimate Details  .        64
10.    Unit Exchange Pool: List of Components and
Cost Estimates .....................................    65
11.    Cost Estimates for Containerization Component ........   66
12.    Summary of Project Cost Estimates .....      ...............   67
13.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ....      ..............   68
14.    Economic Evaluation:  Unit Exchange System,
Management Information System, Technical
Assistance and Training ............................   69



-iii-
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
15.    Economic Evaluation: Container Rail Operation ..70
16.    Revenue and Expenditure for Financial Year to
30 June for 1976/77-1980/81 ................ . ........   71
17.    Changes in Relationship of Revenues and Costs
1972-1982    ..........................................    72
18.    Passenger Fares and Costs 1972-1981 ................ .    73
19.    Forecasts of Revenue and Expenditure:
1980/81-1985/86         .................. .   74
20.    Forecasts of Source and Application of Funds:
1980/81-1984/85    .................. ..................   75
CHARTS
Chart 1  -  Pakistan Railways Organization, February 1982           76
Attach. 1 -  Pakistan Railways Organization,
May 1982 .77
Chart 2   -  Expansion of Dry Port at Moghalpura, Lahore
(Key  Plan)   .....................................  78
Chart 3   -  Proposed Layout of Remanufacturing Shops
in Central Diesel Workshops (Rawalpindi) .......  79
Chart 4   -  Project Implementation Schedule ....      ..............  80
Maps
IBRD 16207R - Pakistan - Eleventh Railway Project
This report is based on information provided by the Government of Pakistan
and on the findings of project preparation and appraisal missions in 1980,
1981 and 1982 which consisted of Messrs. D. Bickers (Economist), N. Holcer
(Telecommunications Engineer), M. Melrose (Railway Engineer), E. Pogson
(Financial Analyst), M. Pulgar-Vidal (Economist), A. Sabeti (Railway
Specialist), T. Shima (Railway Engineer), and A. Soto (Economist); and
consultants W. Anderson (Container Specialist), D. Burns (Mechanical
Engineer) and W. Thompson (Operations and Management Specialist). The main
reports and data used are listed in Annex 1.



I



PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Background
1.01      Pakistan covers a land area of about 800,000 square kilometers.
It consists mainly of a flat plain stretching from the foothills of the
Himalayas in the northeast to the Arabian Sea in the southwest. It is
crossed by five great rivers, the Indus, Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi and Sutlej,
which, after their confluence, flow as the Indus towards the sea. These
rivers frequently overflow their banks, causing serious interruptions to
transport.  The country's population, which is growing at about 3% p.a., is
estimated at 83 million and is concentrated in the fertile Indus basin.
Karachi, the largest city and port, is also Pakistan's main commercial,
financial and industrial center.
1.02      Pakistan's gross national product (at market prices) was estimated
in 1980/81 at US$30 billion, and per capita GNP in 1980 at about US$300.1/
The largest sector in the economy is agriculture, which generates about 31%
of GNP; other important sectors are manufacturing (16%), commerce (14%) and
transport, including communications (7%). The balance-of-payments situation
has been characterized by persistent current account deficits during the past
four years.
B.   The Transport Sector
1.03      Pakistan's transport system and traffic densities reflect the
concentration of population and economic activity in the Indus basin; the
location of the ports of Karachi and Qasim; and the long distances between
the location of the few mineral resources currently exploited (gas, coal,
oil) and the consumption centers. Because the border with Afghanistan was
closed in 1979, and trade with India and Iran is insignificant, practically
all imports and exports move through Karachi. Over half the international
traffic originates in or is bound to Karachi and its environs; most of the
balance goes to or comes from the Punjab, whose capital, Lahore, is 1,200
kilometers north of Karachi. Hence, fairly long transport distances are
involved for many traffic flows, especially imports and exports. Because of
this and the generally flat terrain along most of the densely trafficked
corridors, Pakistan is a country well suited for rail freight transport. As
the main railway lines are in the northeast-southwest direction, Pakistan
Railways (PR) is in an advantageous position to carry such traffic.
1.04      Freight traffic growth in Pakistan has been faster than GNP growth.
While real GNP grew at about 4.5% p.a. in the 1970's, total freight traffic
1/ "Pakistan: Economic Developments and Prospects", Report No. 3802-PAK,
April 14, 1982.



-2-
(in ton-kilometers) grew approximately at 7.0% p.a. As shown below, rail
freight traffic remained roughly constant between 1971/72 and 1980/81, but
the rail share of freight traffic decreased from 48% to 26%. During the same
period, rail passenger traffic grew by about 70%. but its share declined from
20% to 15%.
1971/72                       1980/81
billion        billion            billion         billion
ton-kms        pass-kms           ton-kms        pass-kms
Rail       7.8 (48%)      9.5 (20%)          7.9 (26%)       16.3 (15%)
Road       8.2 (51%)    36.5 (77%)          22.0 (73%)       86A9 (79%)
Air        0.1 (1%)       1.6 (3%)           0.3 (1%)         6.2 (6%)
Total    16.1 (100%)   47.6 (100%)          30.2 (100%)   109.4 (100%)
Despite the increasing importance of the road subsector, the railways still
play and will continue to play a major role in Pakistan's economy (para
1.05).
1.05      In recent years (since 1976/77), the volume of revenue-earning
traffic carried by the railways has oscillated between 6.8 and 8.5 billion
ton-kms, with an average haul in the range of 720 to 930 kms (Table 1). In
1980/81, the railways carried more ton-kms than a decade earlier, and the
average haul of revenue earning traffic was significantly longer, which
indicates an overall improvement in the use of PR's limited effective carry-
ing capacity. However, various recent studies dealing with public sector
commodities, which comprise 75% of PR's present freight traffic, together
with an analysis of the sensitivity of rail traffic to major changes in
origin-destination flows of these commodities, confirm that it is PR's own
inefficient operation, not the lack of rail-suitable traffic, that has
resulted in the recent stagnation of rail traffic volumes. This is clearly
seen in the fact that the actual rail traffic has consistently been bulk
commodities with much longer hauls than what is normally considered to be the
threshold of the rail's economic advantage over road transport. The above
studies indicate substantial growth in the next ten years in the production
and trade of many of the commodities for which the railways would normally be
the chosen carrier. The main factors affecting PR's ability to carry are the
following: (a) GOP's continued policy that PR should give preference to
passenger over freight traffic; (b) the effect of the trucking operation run
by the National Logistic Cell (NLC), as detailed in para 1.08; (c) deficien-
cies in institutional and managerial aspects of PR; (d) the fact that about
75% of PR's traffic is currently public sector traffic; (e) changes in the
pattern and composition of the demand for freight transport, mainly reflect-
ing the reduced long-distance movements of POL; and (f) shifts in modal
comparative advantages as perceived by shippers. The future growth of rail



-3-
traffic depends on whether the physical and institutional improvements dis-
cussed in Chapters II and III can be achieved. While the proposed project is
designed to address these problems and assist PR to improve its ability to
cope with present and potential traffic demand, prudence in the light of past
performance dictates a very conservative approach to traffic forecasting for
the purposes of using such forecasts for calculating estimated project
benefits. Therefore, PR's total ton-kilometers have been estimated to remain
at about their present level during the project period. Any additional
traffic which PR is able to carry will further enhance the project benefits
and is clearly worth striving for.
1.06      Passenger traffic carried by the railways (Table 2) in the late
1970's hovered around 145 million passengers, reaching an all-time high of
149 million in 1977/78; in 1980/81 ridership declined to 123 million. In
terms of passenger kilometers, traffic grew from 13.0 billion in 1975/76 to
17.3 billion in 1979/80 and then dropped to 16.3 billion in 1980/81. The
recent decline in passenger traffic probably reflects the cumulative effect
of fare increases in 1979 and 1980. 1/ The bulk of ridership on the railways
system consists of second class passengers, who account for over 95% of the
total volume of passengers and for about 88% of passenger kms. About
two-thirds of second class passengers travelled less than 100 kms, and about
one-fifth made trips of less than 15 kms on commuter services in the Karachi
and Lahore areas. The average travel distance for all passengers, however,
has increased steadily in recent years, from 93 kms in 1976/77 to 132 kns in
1980/81.
1.07      Pakistan's road system comprises about 40,000 kms of federal and
provincial all-weather roads (of which nearly 24,000 have bituminous surfac-
ing), and some 55,000 kms of fair-weather roads. The quality of the network
is deficient, much of the paved system is narrow, with a paved width averag-
ing only about three meters, and the structural strength of the pavement is
often insufficient, leading to failures on major roads under heavy traffic
conditions. The present condition of the road system stems from: (a) original
highway designs not suitable for current traffic volumes; (b) lack
of adequate road maintenance; (c) preference at various levels of Government
for building new roads rather than repairing or improving existing ones, a
tendency fortunately curtailed in recent years, and (d) considerable over-
loading of the country's roads by a relatively free and highly competitive
road transport industry. A study is being carried out by GOP under the
on-going Third Highway Project to determine the extent of vehicle overloading
in the country. Preliminary results indicate that about 60% of trucks on
main highways are overloaded, i.e., have axle loads greater than 18,000
pounds. Once the study is completed in end-1982, GOP is expected to devise a
1/   However, in 1980/81 the effective fares collected per pas-
senger-kilometer (Rs 0.120 in first class and Rs 0.051 in second class)
were not sufficient to cover the costs of providing the service.



-4-
strategy to control truck overloading. The range of steps to be taken is
likely to include the following: (a) the establishment of roadside weighing
stations (not deemed to be very effective in practice); (b) the introduction
of suitable changes in GOP's truck import policies; (c) the adoption of
additional standards during annual truck inspection to identify those
vehicles that have been modified by their owners to carry excessive loads;
(d) the revision of the schedule of road user charges to make vehicles pay a
sum proportional to the wear and tear they inflict on roads; and (e) the
revision of the specifications under which the national highway system is to
be constructed or rehabilitated.
1.08      Private trucks operate in a fairly competitive environment, where
there is little regulatory control, small firms abound, and a large number of
vehicles are owner-operated. Tne role of the private trucking industry, as
well as that of PR, has been affected by GOP's creation of the National
Logistics Cell (NLC) in 1978. In that year, faced with an emergency need to
import and distribute substantial volumes of wheat and fertilizer, GOP estab-
lished the NLC within the Army, entrusting it with a fleet of 500 new 20-ton
trucks and making it responsible for most of the day-to-day operation of the
port of Karachi. NLC efficiently handled the crisis situation and, when the
crisis subsided, GOP decided that NLC should remain in existence. In
1979/80, NLC acquired additional trucks and tankers, and its current carrying
capacity is estimated to be about 820-1,080 million ton kilometers per year.
As a result, NLC has become a major competitor to the railways and its effect
is mainly felt upon the highly imbalanced north-south freight traffic.
According to PR's own assessment, in 1979/80 the railways lost to NLC about
0.6 million tons of fertilizer, 0.2 million tons of cotton and 0.2 million
tons of rice. Allocation of traffic to NLC has not always been consistent
with economic considerations in that it was assigned public-sector long-haul
traffic whose economic cost would have been lower by rail; meanwhile, PR was
often required to transport less profitable and operationally more complex
cargoes on routes that included mountainous terrain. Since end 1981,
however, NLC has modified its traffic allocation policies, and PR has been
carrying larger volumes of long-haul traffic. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with GOP, that the allocation of public sector freight traffic
will be done with due consideration to the relative advantages and capacities
of the various modes of transport.
1.09      The bulk of road passenger transport services, i.e., urban and
intercity bus services are provided by small firms and owner-operators. There
are four large provincial bus corporations which operate urban and intercity
services. Registration figures indicate that, from 1969 to 1979, the bus
fleet grew more rapidly (9% p.a.) than the automobile (8% p.a.) and truck
fleets (6% p.a.). Inter-city bus transport is largely unregulated. The
safety record of the bus operation is very poor probably because of, among
other things, the absence of periodical mechanical inspection and the
generally unruly behavior of bus drivers. The bus safety record and the fact
that bus fares, at Rs 0.085 per passenger-kilometer, are about 60% higher



-5-
than second class rail fares, may largely explain why passengers normally
prefer rail over bus when both services are available.
1.10      Karachi is Pakistan's major port and handles most of its foreign
trade. A second one, Port Qasim, has been recently opened but so far has
only handled inbound traffic for a new steel mill which is in the commission-
ing stage. Since 1978, when many aspects of the operations of Karachi Port
Trust (KPT) were put under NLC supervision, the traditional congestion at the
port, formerly one of the most costly bottlenecks in Pakistan's transport
sector, has been removed. Daily throughput has increased from 6,800 to 9,000
tons for general cargo, and from 7,500 to 12,000 tons for bulk commodities.
Average ship waiting time at the outer anchorage has decreased from about 20
days to under 2 days.
1.11      After the promulgation of the Pakistan Maritime Shipping Act of
1974, the Government took over the management of various shipping companies.
Services are provided by the National Shipping Corporation (NSC) and the
recently de-nationalized Pan Islamic Steamship Company. Only a small frac-
tion of foreign trade is currently carried by Pakistani vessels, and GOP
hopes to increase it. At end-1980, Pakistan's merchant fleet consisted of 48
vessels with a total carrying capacity of about 560,000 DWT. Over half these
vessels were more than 15 years old. Inland water transport has not been
developed, since most rivers are seasonal or are interrupted by numerous
irrigation barrages.
1.12      Air transport accounts for about 1% of domestic passenger-
kilometers. Its volume grew rapidly in the years before 1978 but has since
remained fairly constant, probably because of increased fare levels. Pakistan
International Airlines (PIA) operates domestic and international services.
In 1979, domestic passenger traffic carried by PIA amounted to about 1.5
million passengers and 1.1 billion passenger-kilometers; domestic air freight
traffic was 14,000 tons and 14.5 million ton-kilometers.
C.   Transport Policy and Investment
1.13      When the Fifth Five-Year Plan (FY79-83) was formulated, about
Rs 4.5 billion, or 23% of total planned investment, were allocated to the
transport sector. Actual expenditures, however, have been lower than
anticipated, and stood at only 19% of total development outlays in FY81.
Investment priorities have been recently altered by GOP to emphasize agricul-
ture, water, energy and the social sectors. It is estimated that the tran-
sport sector will account for 21% of expenditures in FY84. There are no
indications that subsectoral allocations have been modified; these were
originally planned as 27% for highways and road transport, 20% for the rail-
ways, 14% for ports and shipping, 33% for airports and civil aviation and 6%
for pipelines. The large size of the civil aviation component reflects PIA's
ongoing aircraft modernization and fleet expansion program. A major and
welcome feature of the Plan was the exclusion from it of construction of new



-6-
railway lines and the Indus Super Highway. Any proposal to revise subsec-
toral allocations should take into account the need for improved road main-
tenance throughout the country; and should perhaps reflect a critical review
of the aviation component.
1.14      Pricing in the road subsector is acceptable since road passenger
and freight transport services are largely unregulated and there is con-
siderable competition in the provision of these services. A revision of the
tariff structure at Karachi Port on the basis of replacement cost accounting
is under way. The main tariff policy issue in the transport sector is the
cross-subsidization of rail passenger services by the rail freight operation.
Corrective measures in this regard will be taken under the project (para
5.10).
1.15      The consumption of petroleum products in the transport sector has
accelerated since 1972, reflecting a substantial increase in the motor
vehicle fleet and road transport services. In 1979, the sector accounted for
57% of all petroleum products consumed in Pakistan. Price increases in 1979
and 1980 set the domestic prices of gasoline and diesel fuel considerably
over import parity levels, and a sizeable price differential is maintained
between diesel and gasoline to discourage gasoline consumption.   Pakistan
relies heavily on imports of crude oil for its domestic needs; the rate of
domestic crude oil production was disappointingly low in FY81, but some
improvement is expected by the end of FY82.
1.16      In the transport sector, the Bank Group's lending aims at assisting
Pakistan to better utilize existing capacity by improving the efficiency of
operations and strengthening the institutions responsible for these services,
while fostering the rehabilitation and improvement of existing facilities.
In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has lent a total of US$460
million, net of cancellations, for assistance to Pakistan's transport sector.
Beginning in 1952, the Bank Group has financed three highway projects, four
port projects, five gas line operations and seven railway projects.l/ It has
also extended two technical assistance credits (for highways and ports) and
an import credit to assist the commercial road operation. In the railway
subsector, the Bank has financed a total of US$187.2 million (net of cancel-
lation) in projects designed mainly to assist PR and its predecessor, the
former Pakistan Western Railways, to rehabilitate railway facilities and
equipment. These projects have also increasingly focused on improving PR's
planning capabilities, accounting practices, management and operations (paras
2.23-2.26).
1/ The number of railway loans/credits exceeds the number of projects
financed in Pakistan because the loans/credits include railway operations
in the former East Pakistan.



-7-
II. PAKISTAN RAILWAYS
A.   Organization, Management and Staff
2.01      Pakistan Railways (PR) is owned and managed by the Government of
Pakistan (GOP). Its operations are controlled from Lahore by a General
Manager that performs the functions of Chief Executive and exercises his
power through six zonal divisions which are responsible for day-to-day field
operations. Until April 1982 the operating functions of PR were performed by
a five-member Railway Board located at Lahore, while the policy and monitor-
ing controls were exercised by Ministry of Railways (MOR), headed by a
Secretary, Ministry of Railways, established at Islamabad in 1974. Effective
April 4, 1982, the Railway Board and MOR have been merged and the Board has
been moved to Islamabad. The Chairman, Railway Board is now the ex-officio
Secretary, Ministry of Railways and the other members of the Board have been
designated as Additional Secretaries, Ministry of Railways. PR's organiza-
tion prior to April 1982 is shown in IBRD Chart 23804 and the changes effec-
tive April 1982 to the senior management structure are shown in attachment to
the Chart.
2.02      For decades, the members of the Board and other senior officers
of PR have been senior railwaymen with a deep attachment to tradition and
unable to adapt to changing circumstances. Although PR possesses competent
and skilled managers, the organization, with its rigid departmentalization
has not been conducive to efficient management. The vast gaps between
departments and the lack of communication among them makes them act and
conduct business as completely separate organizations, with only the Chairman
of the Board having authority over them. This type of organization was
considered to be not too conducive to good management and has since been
changed. PR operations have now been placed under a single authority (the
General Manager) which would be accountable to the Railway Board for all
aspects of day-to-day operation. In addition, the marketing and costing
functions of the railways need to be merged into one single department
separate from the transport function. Steps are also needed to completely
overhaul PR's purchasing and stores, and establish them as a unified stream-
lined department. During negotiations GOP has agreed to continue the
implementation of measures aimed at improving PR's organization and manage-
ment.
2.03      Pakistan Railways, with about 130,000 employees, is the largest
public sector employer in Pakistan (Table 3). However, since PR's traffic
growth has been slow, and since staff productivity has increased very little,
less than full benefits have been obtained from modernization measures such
as dieselization. There is need for reductions in staff strength through
attrition and improvement in efficiency. Under the ongoing Tenth Railway



-8-
Project (para 2.25), GOP agreed that PR would reduce its staff by about 500
per annum in 1977/78 and 1978/79, and by about 1,200 per annum in 1979/80 and
1980/81. PR also agreed to undertake, by December 1977, a study of the
possibility of further staff reductions through attrition. PR is in com-
pliance with these agreements and during the negotiations it was agreed that
PR will, through attrition, continue to reduce nonprofessional and unskilled
staff.
2.04      The wage and salary structure prevailing in PR is the same as that
for Government employees, involving a grade system reviewed and adjusted
periodically by the Federal Wage Commission. In addition, from time to time
the Federal Government grants special national wage increases. Fringe
benefits, grading of jobs and crafts, work rules and craft lines are nego-
tiated between PR's two labor unions and the Board. For some years now,
skilled and semi-skilled staff at all levels have been attracted to more
highly paid work in the Middle East.
2.05      The training of PR staff is carried out at either PR's training
schools or Government training institutes. Staff training is carried out by
the Personnel Department. Many long-service officers are expected to retire
from PR in the near future. The problem this will cause will be partly eased
by staff training carried out under the ongoing loan/credit in such important
areas as locomotive and track maintenance, freight train operations and
accounting modernization. This training program is further augmented by
various bilateral arrangements.
B.   Railway Infrastructure
2.06      The railway network consists of about 8,800 route-kilometers.
Details of the track inventory are given in Table 4. Currently overage track
structure on the Karachi-Lahore main line has required the imposition of
speed restrictions at many locations. Track maintenance procedures were
examined by PR, with assistance from SOFRERAIL (France) financed under Loan
621-PAK, and new maintenance procedures have been introduced. There have
been shortages of ballast and sleepers; although., PR will soon have the
installed capacity to increase the supply of ballast and concrete sleepers,
wooden sleepers will have to be imported for some time to come. Some bridges
with speed restrictions on broad gauge lines still have to be renewed or
strengthened. A new bridge over the Kotri river was completed in February
1980. This provides a second track over the Indus River, thus removing a
major bottleneck on the main line. Modernization of telecommunications
facilities and signaling is being undertaken under the ongoing Tenth Railway
Project (para 3.18). A new marshalling yard at Pipri, designed to remove
congestion in the Karachi area, was completed in February 1980, with partial
financing under Loan 621-PAK (para 2.26) and has ample capacity for any
demands which may be made on it.



-9--
C.   Motive Power and Rolling Stock
2.07      PR's motive power and rolling stock position at the end of 1980/81
is shown in Table 5. Diesel electric locomotive fleet of 474, however,
constitutes PR's primary mode of traction. In 1970/71 a fleet of 29 electric
locomotives were introduced to PR working the electrified section of
Lahore-Khanewal. PR still has about 400 steam locomotives, of which 90% are
over 40 years old. About 32% of coaching vehicles are over 30 years old and
in poor condition; their partial replacement is now being made. About 18% of
four-wheeler wagons and about 8% of bogie wagons are over 40 years old.
Since PR has more than sufficient wagons, not all will be replaced when
scrapped. PR manufactures most of its passenger vehicle and freight wagons.
2.08      Low motive power availability and reliability have been a very
important factor in PR's lackluster traffic and financial performance (paras
1.05 and 5.04). As mentioned above, PR's diesel electric locomotive fleet is
the mainstay of operations and consists of 474 diesel electric units produced
by seven manufacturers in five different countries (Table 6). The problem
associated with the motive power proliferation is further aggravated by PR's
inadequate maintenance facilities and chronic shortages of critical spare
parts. The project will provide assistance in improving PR's maintenance
organization and facilities.
D.   Operations
2.09      The improvement of PR's operations has been a major objective under
previous Bank-assisted railway projects in Pakistan. The most recent one,
the current Tenth Railways Project, aimed at increasing motive power
availability and improving the quality of railway services. To this end,
provisions were made under the project for the procurement of urgently needed
spare parts for motive power; the improvement of workshops, sheds and depots;
and the completion of a backbone microwave network from Karachi to
Rawalpindi, including related communications and signalling equipment.
Physical progress under the Tenth Railways Project has been generally satis-
factory, except for the delayed completion of the telecommunications com-
ponent. Although a number of large investments included in the five-year
plan and assisted by the project have now been completed, PR's operating
indicators (Table 7) are not yet in line with the targets envisaged at
appraisal. The main areas where progress has fallen short of expectations are
those of motive power availability and use, and average wagon turnaround
time. At appraisal, it was expected that by 1979/80 available locomotives
would produce 576 locomotive-kms per day on passenger trains, and 288 locomo-
tive-kms per day on freight trains; the actual results, however, were 459 and
197, respectively. In a similar vein, system-wide turnaround time for
wagons, which was expected to be reduced from 16.7 to 12.5 days, was only
brought down to 15.3 days in 1979/80, whereas it should not have been more
than 13.8 just taking into account the increased length of haul.



-10-
2.10      A major factor contributing to the unsatisfactory operation of the
railways is the policy of GOP and PR to give passenger traffic higher
priority than freight for the allocation of available motive power and line
capacity. This policy has important operational, economic and financial
consequences. It prevents PR from carrying the traffic it is best suited to
carry, and which would significantly benefit the country's economy. This is
a major reason for PR's current financial distress. Some steps were taken
under the Tenth Railways Project to increase freight carrying capacity
through the implementation of a battery system, which involves the grouping
of passenger trains in batches so as to leave more train paths for slower
freight trains. This system, however, has now been abandoned by the railways
as a result of political pressures to add more passenger train stops.
2.11      Analysis of PR's operational performance reveals that there is much
room for improvement in the passenger-train operations. This will be crucial
to the release of much-needed train paths and motive power for additional
freight-train runs which will enable PR to handle the projected freight
traffic. To achieve this objective, poorly patronized trains will be discon-
tinued, unnecessary stoppages will be eliminated, and coach and locomotive
utilization should be increased by diverting equipment to more remunerative
operations.
2.12      PR's freight services are also in need of improvement, as regards
both transit time and terminal operations, and transport of major bulk com-
modities. The through-freight train commercial speed should be increased
to achieve improved line-capacity utilization. PR will also have to intro-
duce more unit and block trains for the movement of wheat, rice, cement,
fertilizer (raw material and finished products). PR will continue discussing
with various agencies and provincial Governments ways of implementing
specific measures to improve bulk-commodity transport, with a view to limit-
ing destinations and loading points and ensuring adequate loading and unload-
ing facilities.
2.13      During negotiations, agreement was reached on specific measures to
rationalize further passenger-train operations, to increase the speed of
freight trains and to increase unit and block trains for movement of bulk
commodities. Specific targets and measures are described in Annex 2.
E. PR's Role and Prospects
2.14      Given the type of terrain, the distances involved and the large
amounts of bulk products that make up the majority of transport flows in
Pakistan, the railways undoubtedly have an important role to play in the
country (para 1.05). Its slow recovery, despite heavy investments in the
past five years, has accentuated a feeling of frustration with the railways
at various levels in the Government. Nevertheless, the railways remain the
backbone of the country's main transport corridor and its most important



-11-
import-export carrier. PR is also an important passenger carrier moving
almost about one-sixth of all passenger kilometers in the country.
2.15      The overall future possible role of PR in Pakistan has been dis-
cussed at length by Emmay Associates (Pakistan) in a recent study prepared
for the Bank (Terms of Reference are found in Annex 3.) In the medium term,
the future of the railways depends on its management's ability to complete
promptly and efficiently the ongoing five-year plan, including the Tenth
Railway Project, and to improve operations substantially. The arrival of
spare parts and the completion of the telecommunications and signalling
components will do a great deal in this direction. But, more than physical
items, it is competent management and appropriate organization that are
required to improve operations (para 2.02).
2.16      The future size and role of the railways are closely linked to:
(a)  PR's ability to adapt to the overall changes in the demand
for rail freight transport resulting from inevitable
losses of freight to other modes (e.g., increasing
amounts of POL, which is PR's main revenue earner,
will be carried by pipeline, although there will be some offsetting
movement of refined products), increasing competition from
the road subsector (NLC and private truckers), and shifts
in the total demand and patterns for transport in the country
(as Pakistan approaches the point where it will cease to be
a net foodgrain importer); and
(b)  PR's ability to make a case before GOP for an efficient
allocation of available motive power and line capacity
between freight and passenger services (para 2.11).
2.17      After many years of concentrating on long distance import/export
traffic in the public sector, PR finds itself in a situation where its
marketing, planning and costing functions are inadequate to meet the current
challenges. Paramount to PR's future role is the improvement of its
organization and management (para 2.02).
F.   Railway Investment Plan
2.18      Under the ongoing Tenth Railway Project, an investment plan for
1976/77-1980/81 was developed and its implementation was agreed upon. The
basic objective of the Investment Plan was to improve PR's operational per-
formance on the main line by eliminating various physical bottlenecks. Sub-
sequently, the severe floods of 1976 and political unrest resulted in
implementation delays and the Investment Plan, almost in its entirety, was
included in Pakistan's Fifth Five-Year Plan (1978-1983). Track rehabilita-
tion, line capacity work, rolling stock and motive power rehabilitation and
installation of a backbone microwave telecommunication system were the major



-12-
components of the Plan (for details see Table 12, Report No. 1283a-PAK). The
economic rate of return of the plan as a whole was estimated at about 24%.
2.19       GOP's internal procedure for techno-economic analysis of develop-
ment projects involves the preparation of PC-1 proformas, which are project
appraisal documents used as the basis for project selection at the outset and
for re-evaluation during project execution. There is also provision, under
the on-going Tenth Railway Project agreement, for annual monitoring of the
Investment Plan and its implementation. During the implementation of the
on-going project and the preparation of the proposed project, some parts of
the agreed upon Plan and various newly proposed schemes were dropped, post-
poned, or slowed down in the light of traffic and operational developments.
The most notable of these schemes was a plan for electrification of 117 km
section (Khanewal-Samasata) of the Karachi-Lahore main line for which
bilateral financing was under active discussions, the conversion of about
3,700 four-wheeler wagons into bogie wagons, the construction of Karachi
Cantonment Terminal, new line construction and line conversion, and the
rehabilitation of air conditioned coaches. The pace of motive power
acquisiton was also slowed down.
2.20       The most recent review of Pakistan's Fifth Five-Year Plan (1978-83)
and PR's operational and financial requirements have resulted in the Rail-
ways' Medium Term Development Plan (MTDP), covering FY81/82-FY83/84. The
basic objectives of the MTDP are:
(a) to improve PR's operations and reduce costs given the presently
available and some additional plant and equipment; and
(b) to provide PR with the opportunity to explore potential for carry-
ing new and additional traffic where it should represent the most
economic transport solution compared with alternative modes.
The first objective, improved operational efficiency and reduced costs, has
become increasingly important. Its effect on PR's investment requirements
was taken into account by restricting the near future investment in addi-
tional capacity to the containerization scheme.
2.21       PR's Medium Term Development Plan (MTDP) has been reduced to a
minimum need base and revised to include the allocations required for this
project. It is detailed in Table 8 and a summary is provided below:



-13-
Item                                   Rs Million           %
Gauge Conversion                               5
Track Rehabilitation                       1,008           21.0
Bridge Works                                  75            1.5
Line Capacity and Pipri Yard                 117            2.5
Telecommunications and Signalling            668           14.0
Motive Power and Rolling Stock             2,268           47.5
Plant and Machinery                          443            9.5
MIS                                           85            2.0
Technical Assistance, Brake
Improvement and Electrical Projects         95            2.0
TOTAL                                      4,764 /a       100.0
/a Includes Rs 264 million over and above the original MTDP
allocation, as required for the full implementation of
project components.
The Plan consists of high priority items and the major ones fall in the
following categories:
(a)  continued implementation of ongoing schemes (about 26%) of the
Tenth Railway Project whose implementation was slowed or delayed;
the major items are track rehabilitation on the main line and
installation of the telecommunication network, rehabilitation
(re-engining) of overaged diesel electric locomotives, and con-
struction of concrete sleeper factories;
(b)  purchase and rehabilitation of motive power and rolling stock
(about 42%) for replacement; the main items in this category are
acquisition of up to 68 diesel electric locomotives 1/
(orders for 38 were placed in October 1980 and orders for the other
30 will await the results of the electrification study under the
proposed project), rehabilitation of about 42 overaged diesel
1/ PR's motive power requirement (without further electrification) was the
subject of a study under the Tenth Railway Project which was completed
in 1979 with assistance from Bank Group consultants.



-14-
electric locomotives, and manufacture of about 410 passenger
coaches; and
(c) items included in the proposed project (about 20%).
2.22      With one major exception, the economic justification of all items
in MTDP has been established by GOP (PC-is for all major items are available
in Project File listed in Annex 1). Under bilateral financing, consideration
has been given to the establishment of a plant to progressively assemble and
then manufacture diesel electric locomotives; the economic justification of
this investment, however, is not evident and, since PR's management is
already thinly spread over many concerns, it would be unwise to further
divert managerial resources onto additional activities. GOP has recently
decided that the proposed locomotive factory will not be undertaken by PR.
Understanding was reached with GOP during negotiations on the content of the
MTDP.
G.   Performance Under Previous Projects
2.23      The first loan to PR, formerly Pakistan Western Railway (PWR), was
made in 1952. Since then six other loans and credits have been made, and
this project would be the Bank Group's eighth operation. 1/ Up to 1959/60,
three loans were made with the main objective of rehabilitating railway
facilities and equipment. The implementation of the projects under these
loans was satisfactory. Operational efficiency was good; PR's financial
position appeared sound; passenger-kms increased by 5% and freight ton-kms by
6% per annum during 1955/56-1959/60. The inadequacy of PR's accounting
system was recognized and consultants were engaged to help in modernizing the
accounting system. During the next five years, from 1960/61 to 1964/65, PR
was still catching up with increasing traffic demand and a loan and a credit
were made with substantially the same objectives as before. During this
period, a significant change in the administrative arrangement took place in
that the control of the Railways was transferred from the Central Government
to the Province of West Pakistan. This change affected the Railways' perfor-
mance, particularly in planning. Operational performance also deteriorated.
Although improvement in PR's accounting system was still an objective, the
recommendations of the previous studies had not been implemented and new
consultants were appointed to assist in the establishment of a commercial
accounting system.
2.24     Two other loans (Loan 496-PAK and Loan 621-PAK) were made between
1965/66 and 1975/76. Over this period, there was a significant decline in
1/ The numbering of railway projects in Pakistan also includes the Bank
Group operations with former East Pakistan Railway (PER), now Bangladesh
Railways.



-15-
PR's overall performance. The separation of Bangladesh, hostilities with
India in 1971 and severe flood damage in 1973 and 1976 all contributed to
such decline. Although consultants were engaged under Loan 621-PAK to assist
in carrying out operational improvements, progress was slow; and PR continued
to give operational priority to passenger over freight services and PR's
financial position deteriorated.
2.25      The Tenth Railway Project (Credit 684/Loan 1372-PAK) was approved
in March 1977. The physical execution of the project has made satisfactory
progress. PR has made considerable efforts to meet the covenants and under-
takings with the principal exception of financial targets which were mainly
dependent on GOP's actions on rates and fare increases (paras 5.04). The
Railway operations and financial results have not however, as discussed
above, been satisfactory.
2.26      A Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Ninth Railway Project
(Loan 621-PAK) was prepared in 1979 and a draft Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR) has been recently circulated. Both the PCR and the draft PPAR
give the impression of a rather disappointing project. The protracted dis-
bursement period, about 10 years instead of three, an eventful political
period in Pakistan during the project implementation, and PR's managerial
shortcomings contributed to this situation. The main findings and recommen-
dations of the PCR and PPAR pertain to subjects which have been either
addressed under the ongoing Tenth Railway Project or are the main objectives
of the proposed project.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Background
3.01      The main objective of the Bank Group assistance to PR through the
first six operations (excluding Credit 684/Loan 1372-PAK) consisted of the
rehabilitation of existing railway infrastructure and, to a limited degree,
modernization of motive power, rolling stock and maintenance facilities.
These loans and credits were based on about two-year slices of PR's invest-
ment programs and mainly covered the foreign exchange requirement for the
acquisition of material and machinery for improvement works.
3.02      With a growing number of diesel electric locomotives in need of
major overhaul, recently introduced electric traction and modern design
rolling stock in need of modern maintenance methods, and stagnation of opera-
tional efficiency, PR has acknowledged the need for a shift in investment



-16-
priorities in order to remove major bottlenecks and to modernize the main-
tenance facilities and procedures. In support of PR's move in this direc-
tion, the Bank Group approved the Tenth Railway Project (Credit 684/Loan
1372-PAK) in March 1977 for US$60 million.
3.03      Under the Tenth Railway Project, PR began tackling the following
issues: (i) long overdue investments to improve telecommunication and sig-
naling; (ii) the re-engineering of the older mainline diesel electric locomo-
tives; (iii) the completion of the Kotri bridge and the Pipri marshalling
yard complex; and (iv) the setting up of three concrete sleeper factories.
In monitoring the progress of the ongoing project, the Association has also
been involved in the work required to ensure the optimum utilization and
benefit from completed and ongoing investments. The Bank Group's missions
have been supplemented by consultants in such fields as motive power technol-
ogy and maintenance, telecommunications, management information systems, and
intermodal transport. Also, arrangements were made at various times for PR
officers to visit railway and industrial organizations outside Pakistan. The
findings of Bank staff, consultants and PR officials on the various subjects
have been extensively discussed with GOP/PR and form the basis for the for-
mulation of the proposed project. All parties agree that the IDA Credit
should be directed to a limited number of high priority items, instead of
being used as a general support of PR's Medium Term Development Plan.
B.   Objectives
3.04      The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) modernization of maintenance facilities and improved
reliability of diesel electric locomotives;
(b) improvement of PR's operational and financial performance
through the introduction of a real-time management
information system; and
(c) establishment of a regular export/import container service
between Karachi and an inland terminal at Lahore.
C.   Description
3.05      The project includes:
(a) improvements to locomotive maintenance, consisting of
(paras. 3.06-3.17):
(i) expansion and equipping of the Rawalpindi Central
Diesel Locomotive Works (CDLW) to remanufacture a
number of critical components and assemblies
(paras 3.11-3.12);



-17-
(ii)  provision of critical machinery and layout
changes at Karachi Locomotive Shed
to enable this shed to change over to
the unit exchange maintenance system
(UEMS) (para 3.13);
(iii)  provision of components and assemblies as an
initial stock to introduce a unit exchange pool (UEP)
(paras 3.15-3.17).
(b) acquisition and installation of a data network and
hardware, development of software, and implementation
of a management information system (paras 3.18-3.20);
(c) expansion of Lahore Dry Port (LDP), construction of
tracks and storage, acquisition of rolling stock and
handling equipment for the operation of international
container services (paras 3.21-3.22);
(d) provision of test equipment, technical advisory
services and staff training in support of and to achieve
the project objectives (paras 3.23-3.27); and
(e) provision of maintenance spares (revenue spares) for
locomotives (paras 3.28-3.31).
Locomotive Maintenance Improvements
3.06      The economic first life of a diesel electric locomotive is
generally considered to be 15 to 20 years. At this age, the mechanical
components - bogies, engine, pumps, controls, etc. - are either in need of
major overhaul or are obsolete. The electric traction and control system
also deteriorates with age and service. Both of these conditions result in
costly in-train failures which inflict a heavy toll on the railway's operat-
ing efficiency. Generally, one of two schemes for heavy maintenance to deal
with these problems is used - one is triggered by failure of major com-
ponents, or by the condition of major components as judged by inspection; the
other is characterized by a predetermined schedule of repairs and periodic
overhauls (POH). Pakistan Railways practices the latter.
3.07      In either maintenance approach, some basic requirements must be
met. High standards of workmanship and materials must be maintained, an
adequate supply of spare parts is necessary, and additional work must be
performed at the third (Class I) cycle repair (15 to 20 years) if the unit is
expected to perform satisfactorily beyond that point.



-18-
3.08      The work done over and above replacement and repair of parts at POH
is usually referred to as "remanufacturing" and involves renewal of moving
parts and those components which deteriorate with age, heat, oil or other
contamination. The application of latest technological developments as a
part of the remanufacturing provides additional efficiency and reliability.
Remanufacture of diesel electric locomotives is feasible and in many cases
can be an economical alternative to purchasing new ones.
3.09      In PR's case, POH work (the three-year Class II and six-year
Class I) is for the most part carried out at the Central Diesel Locomotive
Workshop (CDLW) at Rawalpindi with overflow and odd brands of locomotives
being assigned to the Karachi shed. In addition, re-engining of a limited
number of units has been assigned to the Moghalpura Workshop in Lahore.
Inspections and running repairs are carried out at the base sheds - Karachi,
Rohri, Lahore and Kundian and at the advanced sheds at Quetta, Sibi, Samasata
and Rawalpindi.
3.10      The locomotive fleet of 474 units is a mixture of types from seven
manufacturers from five countries and yet another type is being added from
Japan this year. Table 6 lists the number of locomotives by type, manufac-
turer and age. The variety of manufacturers in itself creates a cumbersome
maintenance situation. In view of the fleet's age and problems associated
with importing spare parts, the maintenance plans must be comprehensive and
well laid and remanufacture becomes more attractive if the fleet of locomo-
tives is expected to perform reliably. No such provision has been adopted by
PR up to now, with resultant high on line failure rates, poor availability
and reduced tractive effort. Unless this is changed, low availability and
reliability will continue and early replacement of a large number of units
will be required. This project will provide facilities for remanufacture
which can be expected to improve reliability and increase locomotive life.
3.11      A keystone of this plan is the centralization of much of the heavy
maintenance and locomotive remanufacture at one workshop, along with the
remanufacture of critical components. When the requirement for skilled
manpower, specialized facilities and quality control are coupled with the
need to run locomotives over the entire system as opposed to local assign-
ment, the decision to centralize heavy maintenance is clear. Under the
project, the Central Diesel Locomotive Works (CDLW) at Rawalpindi will be
equipped to accommodate the remanufacture and heavy overhaul of locomotives
for the entire railway. Because of the late start in setting up such
facilities and supply systems, it will be necessary to maintain and even
improve some of the existing outlying sheds. These include some heavy repair
at Karachi shed and the remanufacture of some electric components at
Moghalpura Workshop where the necessary facility is almost completed. Once
the fleet has been brought up to acceptable standards of reliability, these
activities could be moved to CDLW. For this reason, modernization invest-
ments at Karachi and Moghalpura have been limited to the minimum requirement



-19-
to take advantage of the unit exchange maintenance system and to supplement
CDLW in the catch-up period.
3.12      CDLW modernization will include addition of buildings to house an
electric traction shop, machine shop, central components shop, a crankshaft
shop, and a cylinder liner chrome plating and reconditioning shop. In addi-
tion to the new buildings, the existing works will be refitted to provide
these specialized remanufacturing activities:
(a) engine block shop;
(b) air compressor shop;
(c) lube oil cooler, radiator, after cooler and exhaust
manifold shop;
(d) turbo supercharger shop;
(e) fuel injector and governor room; and
(f) Power assembly reconditioning line.
The main shop buildings will also be expanded so that the additional space
for locomotive remanufacture (especially engine assembly) can be accom-
modated.
3.13      The proposed improvements at Karachi shed consist of completion of
the already planned expansion of the roof over the main track and changes in
machinery and layout to take advantage of the unit exchange maintenance
system. This shed will be the key point for heavy running repair for many
years to come, thus the investments will not be lost after catch-up is com-
plete.
3.14      This project component (including CDLW, Karachi shed, quality
control equipment and component transport equipment) is estimated to cost
about Rs 344.6 million (US$32.8 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange
component of Rs 151.4 million (US$14.4 million equivalent). A summary of
costs is shown in Table 9.
3.15      In addition to a capacity to remanufacture, any good heavy main-
tenance scheme (especially for an older fleet) must include a unit exchange
components supply system. The components can be supplied as new or
remanufactured by the railway in its workshops. PR made an attempt at unit
exchange maintenance several years ago but allowed it to collapse when
make-up spares were not imported in adequate quantities and no remanufactur-
ing capability existed. The proposed project would provide the needed pool
of spare parts for a unit exchange system of maintenance.



-20-
3.16      The unit exchange maintenance system (UEMS) has important
advantages over the remove-repair-replace approach now practiced by PR. Some
of them are:
(a)  parts can be salvaged which would otherwise be scrapped;
(b)  a smaller inventory of parts is required because the
remanufacture and assembly process is centralized;
(c)  the reliability and longevity of parts (and ultimately
of locomotives) are improved because high quality is
maintainable at a central workshop where manpower and
machines are specialized,
(d)  technical improvements can be incorporated uniformly by
the centralized work program; and
(e)  locomotive utilization is greatly enhanced because
worn out components are quickly replaced with ones
from the unit exchange pool.
3.17      A list of critical components for the unit exchange pool is shown
in Table 10. This project component is estimated to cost about Rs 198.9
million (US$18.9 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of Rs
142 million (US$13.5 million equivalent). It is important that as the pool
of components is scrapped (as worn or damaged beyond repair), it be main-
tained and expanded as fleet size increases or other changes take place.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOP that PR will maintain,
and expand as necessary, the unit exchange pool of components as required by
maintenance needs and as agreed from time to time with the Association.
Management Information System
3.18      As described in paras 2.08-2.18 above, PR has been experiencing
growing problems in rolling stock and motive power utilization and main-
tenance, adjustment to changing freight traffic patterns and control over
day-to-day operations and costs as shown by disappointing operational and
financial results of recent years. Recognizing PR's difficulty in control-
ling an increasingly complex transport system, provision was made under the
ongoing Tenth Railway Project for installation of a modern telecommunication
network on PR. Implementation of this component began in late 1980 and
completion is expected before mid-1983. The completion of the telecommunica-
tion network will provide PR with the opportunity to overcome the lack of
management tools to exploit the potential for operational and financial
improvements.
3.19      Under the project, support will be provided for PR to acquire and
install a data network, acquire hardware and software, technical assistance



-21-
and staff training, and for development and implementation of a modern real-
time management information system (MIS). This project component is
estimated to cost Rs 129.8 million (US$12.3 million equivalent) with a for-
eign exchange component of Rs 63.4 million (US$6.0 million equivalent).
3.20      There is no doubt that completion of the telecommunication network
and introduction of the MIS will bring about great potential for improvements
in PR's operating, and consequently, financial performance. However, the
implementation of this management tool will need to be supported by changes
in the management structure and operations, described in Chapter II-above, in
order to realize full benefits of GOP's investments in PR and to enable the
Railways to play an efficient economic role.
Containerization
3.21      There has been a sharp increase in international container traffic
to Pakistan in recent years. Until recently containers were broken at the
Karachi Port. The establishment of a regular container service between
Karachi and Lahore, with custom formalities performed at Lahore Dry Port
(LDP), which is owned and operated by PR, would facilitate international
traffic including exports; generate important savings in cargo handling time,
pilferage and spoilage; and reduce transport costs. This project component
will assist PR and the Pakistan transport system to properly move the
expected and promising container traffic.
3.22      This component will include the procurement of mobile cranes,
forklifts, the modification of 60 existing rail flat wagons, and the procure-
ment of 100 additional ones especially designed for container handling.
Ancillary facilities at LDP required to handle of unit container trains will
also be provided. In addition, assistance will be given to Karachi Port
Trust the development of a container information system and the design of a
new tariff structure. As shown in Table 11, this project component is
estimated to cost about Rs 149.0 million (US$14.2 million equivalent) with a
foreign exchange component of about Rs 47.6 million (US$4.6 million equiv-
alent).
Technical Assistance and Training
3.23      Technical advisory service for CDLW under the project will include
assistance during the preparation of specifications, construction, commis-
sioning and start up, amounting to an estimated 12 man-months at about
US$11,000 per man-month, including transportation and subsistence. In addi-
tion, training of CDLW staff and work force in respect of specialized tech-
nologies required for operation and maintenance of the facility, would be
carried out by the machinery suppliers and foreign railways with similar
facilities. The training requirement is estimated at 42 man months of over-
seas training and 800 man months of local training.



-22-
3.24      Under the ongoing Tenth Railway Project, PR carried out a com-
prehensive traffic costing exercise with the assistance of consultants
SOFRERAIL (France). The intent of this study was to provide PR with the
basis for its fares and tariff structure and to strengthen its marketing
activity. Under this project, it is envisaged that additional technical
advisory services and training will be provided for improving and strengthen-
ing of the Costing Cell. The scope and composition of this project component
was agreed upon during the negotiations.
3.25      A part of PR's mainline (the 288-km Lahore-Khanewal section) was
electrified a decade ago. The original intention was to continue elec-
trification of the mainline to Karachi, another 925 kms from Khanewal.
Because of resource constraints and investment priorities, electrification
has not been extended past Khanewal. The limited electrified section has not
brought the potential benefits associated with electrification since it has
created additional operating and maintenance burdens on the system. There is
a theoretical advantage in completing electrification, particularly as the
cost of imported oil increases and PR has to make decisions concerning the
replacement of its Diesel Electric and steam locomotives. Operating
problems, replacement needs and staggering increases in imported fuel and
investment needs for maintenance facilities related to replacement of steam
traction, have warranted a study to determine the feasibility of further
extension of electrification. Under the project, support will be provided
for a feasibility study of electrification of mainline Khanewal-Karachi.
This study is estimated to cost Rs 10.5 million (US$1.0 million equivalent).
3.26      In order to assist PR in detailing plans of actior for removing
bottlenecks in train operation, mechanical maintenance and optimal utiliza-
tion of carrying capacity, the mission suggested, and PR agreed to, the
provision under the project for employment of 15 man months of appropriate
experts. This project component is estimated to cost about Rs 2.7 million
with (US$0.25 million equivalent) at about US$11,000 per man month including
subsistence and transportation.
3.27      Under the project, support will be provided for PR to acquire
software expertise for developing of adapting and modifying and implementing
a management information system. In addition the project will support staff
training required for developing or modifying and implementing the MIS. Also
under the project, support will be provided to Karachi Port Trust (KPT) to
acquire the software needed for proper handling of containers at Karachi.
This project component is estimated to cost Rs 16.8 million equivalent
(US$1.6 million equivalent).
Revenue Spares
3.28      The unit exchange maintenance system, in addition to components and
subassemblies described above (so-called capital spares), requires other
parts and spares, many of which are not reclaimable (revenue spares), which



-23-
are as critical for proper maintenance. PR has had extreme difficulty in
parts acquisition, which for some time was considered purely a problem caused
by shortage of foreign exchange, and this difficulty became more severe as
the size, age and variety of the fleet increased. Under the ongoing Tenth
Railway Project, the Bank Group provided US$5.0 million to help purchase
critical spares for three years, and GOP actually allocated more than the
agreed amount in counterpart funds. The result, however, was disappointing.
After almost three years of research and review, it became evident that the
complexity of spare parts requirement, the procurement and usage cycle, and
the extent to which it is affected by various factors, had not been fully
recognized.
3.29      Low amounts and, more importantly, erratic allocation of foreign
exchange by GOP was found to be one of the major factors contributing to the
problem of spare parts on PR. In addition, the Railways and the Bank Group's
close review of the spare parts problem indicated a number of other equally
important bottlenecks among which are:
(a) complicated and sometimes impractical procurement procedures not
conducive to ever changing needs of the users and inflexible
production and supply sources;
(b) slowness of banking procedures for the processing of financial
documents in both Pakistan and the supplying countries;
(c) frequent price changes, which increase the difficulty of control-
ling and processing such large number of transactions; and last but
not least
(d) lack of attention and follow-up at the appropriate levels of PR's
management.
3.30      As part of preparation of the proposed project, an in depth study
of the spare parts problem was made by PR. The findings and the recommenda-
tions of the study have been reviewed by GOP and IDA. In addition to
improvements to be effected in PR's purchasing and stores (para 2.02) for
improving the spare parts situation, a number of other steps have been iden-
tified for implementation such as:
(a) foreign exchange should be lined up well before the beginning of
financial year so that the placement of orders and opening of the
letters of credit could be done in an orderly and timely fashion;
(b) untied or cash foreign exchange should be provided for the procure-
ment of locomotive spares; if financing is arranged through aids,
credits, loans, etc., the operating conditions of such funds should
be carefully studied to ensure they meet the needs of the intended
purpose;



-24-
(c)  a simplified procedure should be adopted by the banks in Pakistan
and the suppliers' banks to ensure prompt and accurate processing
of the commercial papers;
(d)  arrangements to be made for a forwarding agent;
(e)  utilization of published price books; and
(f)  close monitoring of the spare parts inventory requirements and
procurement.
3.31      The proposed project includes PR's locomotive spares needs for the
next three years. This component is estimated to cost Rs 445 million
(US$42.4 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of Rs 318
million (US$30 million equivalent). During the negotiations, agreements were
reached aimed at removing the remaining institutional and financial obstacles
for a smooth functioning of the spare parts system. To ensure coverage of
immediate needs and make a timely start in implementing the agreed upon
program, under the project a provision of US$5.0 million equivalent will be
made to assist GOP/PR in a program to eliminate bottlenecks in spare parts
acquisition.
D.   Cost Estimates
3.32      Items included in the project were chosen from PR's Medium Term
Development Plan. Details of the principal items included in the project are
shown in Table 12. In addition, the project includes estimated provision for
a three-year slice of PR's motive power spare parts requirement. The project
is estimated to cost Rs 1,393.0 million (US$ 132.7 million equivalent with a
foreign exchange component of Rs 799.0 million (US$76.1 million equivalent).
3.33      The cost estimates are based on prices of April 1982.  They are
based on ex-factory prices for similar items manufactured in Pakistan and on
recent prices of imported equipment. A physical contingency allowance of 10%
has been incorporated in the cost of civil works for CDLW and LDP. This is
satisfactory, since very little earthwork is required; architectural designs
are for relatively simple buildings; and industrial engineering is complete.
A physical contingency of 7.5% for limited items of machinery and equipment
is included for CDLW, which is reasonable. Price contingencies for all
project items have been included to cover expected price increases until
contracts are awarded as well as price escalation during implementation and
commissioning of CDLW and LDP. The price contingencies for all items in the
project are based on expected local cost increase of 12% in 1982, 12% in 1983
and 11% in 1984; and foreign cost increases of 8.0% in 1982, 8.0% in 1983 and
7.5% in 1984. The foreign exchange rate was assumed to be US$1.00 = Rs 10.5.
During negotiations, the cost estimates were discussed and confirmed. The
cost estimates are summarized below:



-25-
US$ Million
Rs Million             US$ Million         Proposed
Project Item              Local Foreign Total       Local Foreign Total    Credit
a. Maintenance
Improvements
(i) Central Diesel
and other Shops  193.4  150.6  344.0         18.4   14.4   32.8       14.4
(ii) Unit Exchange
Components         56.9  142.0  198.9        5.4   13.5   18.9        13.5
250.3  292.6  542.9       23.8   27.9   51.7        27.9
b. Management Information
System
(i) Data Network       12.1   12.5   24.6         1.2    1.2    2.4        1.2
(ii) Hardware           41.8   39.6   81.4         3.9    3.7    7.6        3.7
(iii) Software           12.5   11.3   23.8         1.2    1.1    2.3        1.1
66.4   63.4  129.8        6.3    6.0   12.3         6.0
c.  Containerization      101.4   47.6  149.0         9.6    4.6   14.2         4.6
d. Technical Assistance
and Staff Training 1/
(i) Technical Advisory
and Training        8.4   16.8   25.2         0.8    1.6    2.4        2.2
(ii) Electrification
Study               7.3    3.2   10.5        0.7    0.3    1.0         1.0
15.7   20.0   35.7        1.5    1.9    3.4         3.2
Base Cost Estimate 2/    433.8  423.6   857.4        41.2   40.4   81.6        41.7
Contingencies
(i) Physical           13.2     -      13.2       1.3     -      1.3        -
(ii) Price              20.0   57.3    77.3        1.9    5.4    7.3        3.3
33.2   57.3    90.5       3.2    5.4    8.6         3.3
e.  Revenue Spares        127.3  318.2   445.5       12.2   30.3   42.5         5.0
GRAND TOTAL 3/        594.3  799.1 1,393.4       56.6   76.1  132.7       50.0
1/   Includes all technical assistance and training to be provided under
the project.
2/   Includes Rs 187 million in taxes and duties.
3/   Includes Rs 314 million in taxes and duties.



-26-
E.   Financing
3.34      Total foreign exchange component of the project amounts to US$76.1
million equivalent. The Association will finance the foreign exchange com-
ponent of all items except the cost of revenue spare parts, of which US$5.0
million (about 15%) is to be provided. The credit of US$50 million equiv-
alent represents about 49% of the project costs excluding taxes and duties.
During negotiations, GOP agreed to finance the remaining US$82.7 million
equivalent including US$25.0 foreign exchange for revenue spares and a com-
mitment to release funds in a timely manner and in accordance with the
implementation schedule. An amount of up to US$1.25 million is to be
retroactively financed under the Credit for expenditure after
February 1, 1982 to meet the foreign exchange costs of data network and
software selection for the PR's MIS and KPT's container marshalling program.
F.   Implementation
3.35      PR will be responsible for the implementation of the project as
part of its ongoing works program, except for the port container yard infor-
mation system which will be handled by KPT. It has the necessary capability
and competence to carry out the project. A time-phased implementation
schedule is shown in Chart IBRD 23803. This schedule, as well as progress
reporting arrangements (including the preparation of a final report upon
completion of the project) was discussed and agreed to during negotiations.
3.36      CDLW.  Detailed engineering and design of the project is completed.
Construction of the shop expansion is to start by October 1982 and be com-
pleted by December 1984. Tendering of plant and machinery for CDLW will
begin by January 1983 and will be completed by July 1983. During the nego-
tiations, assurance was obtained that PR will receive such budget alloca-
tions as will be sufficient to allow employment of consultant services as and
when required, including technical support services from suppliers of plant
technology to assist in installation of equipment, start-up and monitoring of
operations.
3.37      Also, PR will prepare by December 1982 and forward to the Associa-
tion for review a comprehensive training program for the CDLW. At the time
of negotiations assurance was obtained from PR that CDLW will be adequately
staffed at all times with competent managerial and technical personnel and
that changes in management staff will be nominal and not detrimental to
implementation and operation.
3.38      Management Information System.  PR will complete the study for
choice of software and timetable for implementation of the MIS by end
December 1982. During the negotiations the schedule worked out at appraisal
for implementation of this component was confirmed.



-27-
3.39      LDP.  Plans for paving, construction of unit train tracks and
warehouses have been completed. Construction began in January 1982 and
tendering for container handling equipment will start no later than October
1982. This timetable was confirmed during the negotiations.
3.40      Technical Assistance and Training.  During negotiations, the tech-
nical advisory services need for CDLW, details of the training program, the
timetable for feasibility study of electrification of Khanewal-Karachi, and
the technical advisory services to assist PR management in operating improve-
ments as worked out during the appraisal, were discussed and confirmed.
G.   Procurement
3.41      Items financed by the Association will be procured under interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines except for:
(a) proprietary items which PR procures from particular sources because of
the need for procurement under license or for continued standardization of
equipment; and (b) contracts of US$50,000 equivalent or less, where the
advantage of ICB would be clearly outweighed by the administrative burden
thereof. The proprietary items to be financed under the project are
estimated to cost about US$5 million equivalent or about 10% of the proposed
credit. These items will be used for a unit exchange maintenance system for
existing locomotives. During negotiations, the final list of proprietary
items to be financed under the project was discussed and agreed to with PR.
The total amount of contracts less than US$50,000 equivalent not covered by
ICB is estimated to represent a very small portion (less than US$1 million
equivalent) of the proposed credit.
H.   Disbursements
3.42      Subject to review and agreement with the Association, savings in
any category of the proceeds will be available to cover increases in any
other category except proprietary items. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by December 31, 1985. Disbursements under the project would be
made against: (a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of imported items;
(b) 100% of foreign exchange cost of training, technical advisory services
and installation and inspection of equipment; and (c) 70% of local costs of
technical advisory services. The estimated disbursement schedule (Table 13)
is based on Bank-wide disbursement profiles in the transport sector, on our
experience under the on-going Tenth Railways Project in Pakistan (Credit
684/Loan 1372-PAK), and on the nature of the items proposed for financing
under this credit. The disbursement period for this project is estimated to
be shorter than the Bank-wide transport sector average because: (a) about
72% of the credit funds will finance the Locomotive Maintenance Improvement
component, which consists largely of machinery and spare parts; (b) the civil
works involved are already past the planning stage and are, anyway, a rela-
tively small part of the credit (19%); (c) the Containerization component is
mainly equipment and rolling stock for which no abnormal delays are expected;



-28-
and (d) the remainder of the project, i.e. management information system,
technical assistance and training, will not have a great impact on the dis-
bursement schedule. During negotiations, the disbursement schedule was
discussed and agreed with GOP and PR.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
4.01      In broad terms, the justification of this project is predicated  on
the fuller utilization of PR's existing assets, which will be possible by:
(a) the introduction of locomotive maintenance improvements, including
the establishment and operation of a Unit Exchange Maintenance
System (UEMS) that will increase the availability of motive power
by reducing the amount of locomotive downtime required for repair
and maintenance; under the proposed system, locomotives will not
have to remain idle while their worn-out components are repaired;
instead they will be able to leave the workshops and sheds as
quickly as the worn-out components are removed and new or
remanufactured ones are installed and tested; in addition, quality
control and testing equipment to be provided under the project will
result in improved quality of remanufactured components, which will
increase locomotive reliability;
(b) the creation of a Management Information System that will utilize
the telecommunications infrastructure financed under the Tenth
Railway Project; and
(c) the development of container rail services between Karachi and
Lahore, which will attract to the railways a significant share of
inland container traffic between these cities.
B.   Locomotive Maintenance Improvements
4.02      The main benefits of this component (paras 3.06-3.17 and Table 14)
will be the following:
(a) a reduction in locomotive downtime during scheduled heavy and light
repairs; this reduction would be equivalent to an increase in the



-29-
fleet size by about five "additional" locomotives; 1/
(b) an increase in the availability of remanufactured components,
which will be reflected in a 2 % increase in locomotive
availability or 9.5 "additional" locomotives;
(c) a reduction in the number of locomotives currently out of
service for want of spares from about 20 to about 10; this
reduction would result from the transfusion of new spares and
the continued supply of remanufactured components; on
these grounds, about 10 "additional" locomotives may be
attributed to the project; and
(d) the currently low tractive effort of the diesel loco-
motive fleet (about 10% of the electric motors aboard
locomotives are not working) will be increased by
replacing unserviceable motors with new or remanufac-
tured ones; 2/ since the 10% increase in tractive
effort is not likely to be fully utilized, it is
estimated that the actual benefit associated with this
item will be equivalent to only a 5% increase in fleet
size, say 23.5 "additional" locomotives.
The combined impact of (a), (b) and (c) would result in improved availability
of the diesel locomotive fleet, which is currently estimated at 83% and is
expected to grow to 88% at the end of the project implementation period.
4.03      As described above, the total benefits to be derived from the Unit
Exchange Maintenance System, once fully operational, will be equivalent to a
fleet size "increase" of 48 locomotives. These benefits, which are supported
by conservative assumptions and yet per se provide grounds for economic
1/   The diesel locomotive fleet, which consists of 474 locomotives, under-
goes two types of scheduled heavy repairs: Class I repairs are carried
out every six years (their duration will be reduced by seven days) and
Class II repairs every three years (their duration will be reduced by
four days). In addition, light scheduled repairs are performed annually
on all locomotives (their current duration of seven days will be reduced
by about 20%).
2/   The diesel locomotive fl~eet is operated by 2,542 electric motors, of
which about 250 are not worhing; PR also has 65 unserviceable electric
motors not currently aboard iccomotives. Under the project, it is
expected that 66 electric motors will be imported, which will act as an
emergency input and will become the basis of improved maintenance of the
electrical systems.



-30-
justification, will be supplemented by the following additional benefits,
which have not been included in the economic evaluation:
(a) the reliability 1/ of train services will improve, thus reducing
t-affic disruptions and increasing the carrying capacity of the
railways; and
(b) the Unit Exchange Maintenance System will result in a longer life
of diesel locomotives and remanufactured components 2/ which will
reduce PR's import requirements.
4.04      The "additional" motive power generated by the Unit Exchange Main-
tenance System will be used to carry freight traffic, which would otherwise
be carried by truck 3/ at a higher economic cost. It is reasonable to assume
that PR will use its increased motive power to carry freight (instead of
passengers) because:
(a) in compliance with covenants agreed under the Tenth Railway Project
and under the proposed project (para 6.01), PR will give greater
priority to freight traffic in the allocation of motive power;
1/   As opposed to "availability", which reflects the proportion of locomo-
tives in working condition at a given point in time, the concept of
?Ireliability" indicates the locomotive's ability to perform adequately
over a period of time according to a planned assignment, i.e., to do the
job it was intended to do.
2/   The expected life of diesel locomotives (costing about US$1 million
apiece) will be doubled from 18 to 36 years. The life of major com-
ponents to be remanufactured under the project (now being imported at
a rate of about US$15,000 per locomotive per year) will be increased by
about 25%.
3/   As of December 1981, the average long-run economic cost (fixed and
variable) of rail transport for a typical haul (such as the 1200 km
Karachi-Lahore stretch) was estimated at Rs 0.15 per ton-km. The
average economic cost (including investment in vehicle and operating
costs but excluding investment in right-of-way) of road transport was
estimated at Rs 0.23 per ton-km. Because the above road transport cost
excludes road construction and maintenance, project benefits are being
underestimated and the economic rate of return will be conservative.
The above costs have been computed on the basis of data provided by
consultants Sofrerail (Annex 1).



-31-
(b) macroeconomic analyses suggest that long-haul, rail-suitable
freight traffic in Pakistan is significantly greater than the
amounts currently carried by PR, and this traffic is likely to grow
in the future;
(c) while in recent years, PR's poor performance was a major reason for
the stagnation of rail freight traffic, it is expected that its
improved performance under the project will put PR in a better
position to attract freight traffic; and
(d) GOP and NLC are aware that long-haul freight traffic should,
ceteris paribus, be allocated to the railways.
C.   Rail Container Operation
4.05      The introduction and continued operation of efficient and reliable
container rail services between Karachi and Lahore are likely to have a
significant long-term impact on the composition and volume of Pakistan's
import and export trade. On the export side, the country will particularly
benefit from accelerated growth of containerizeable goods such as bagged rice
and light manufactures (including carpets, cotton, yarn, cloth and sporting
goods), which already account for about 40% of total exports. The growth
rate of rail container traffic will not be constrained by total demand but
rather by PR's own ability to attract cargo away from the trucking industry.
As an indication of potential traffic, it is estimated that about 40,000 TEUs
will be handled at the Port of Karachi in 1981/82, of which 30% contain
freight coming from or going to Lahore and points north of Lahore. If
Pakistan's international trade follows worldwide container growth patterns,
it would not be unreasonable to forecast, as does Karachi Port Trust, that
the number of TEUs to be handled at the port will reach the 80,000 mark in
1985/86. The economic justification of the rail container operations is
predicated on rail container traffic gradually building up to 30% of con-
tainers handled at the port (Table 15). Critical to the success of this
component is PR's ability to:
(a) increase the frequency of its container service from one train a
week at project start-up to one train a day by 1988/89; 1/
(b)  provide a service that competes favorably with the trucking
industry, i.e., with transit times between Karachi and Lahore under
30-36 hours and freight rates not above the Rs 5,000-6,000 per TEU
range; and
1/   Each container train will consist of 25 bogie wagons carrying 50 TEUs,
and will have a turnaround time of 5 days. The proposed investment will
be sufficient to sustain comfortably the proposed target frequency.



-32-
(c) provide a service with a degree of reliability and punctuality
similar to that currently enjoyed only by passenger trains and the
super-parcel express.
4.06      The actual impact of a technological change such as the introduc-
tion of container services is not easy to quantify because it includes, among
other things, project-related increases in trade volumes, export shifts
towards goods with higher value added, and reduced costs of cargo handling at
ports. For the purpose of the economic analysis, the above benefits have
been disregarded and only those listed below have been quantified: 1/
(a)  the proposed container operation will be one of the means
at PR's disposal to attract a larger share of long-haul
rail-suitable traffic in Pakistan; in the absence of
rail container services, the bulk of such traffic would
be carried by road; therefore, each ton-kilometer of
container traffic to be carried by rail involves a bene-
fit to the economy, equivalent to the difference in
transport cost between rail and road (para 4.04);
(b)  containerization normally leads to reduced cargo pilfer-
age and damage, which is estimated at 5% of cargo value;
(c)  another advantage of containerization is quicker cargo
handling at ports, which in turn leads to shorter ship
turnaround times; as shipping lines benefit from such
time savings, they encourage containerization by reduc-
ing freight rates anywhere from 5 to 12-1/2%; it has
been conservatively assumed that a 5% reduction in
shipping rates will be a benefit attributable to the
component; and
(d)  containerization permits a reduction in packaging costs,
as certain goods will need less packaging while others
will be packed in Pakistan instead of a nation with
higher unit costs; it is estimated that the relevant
1/   Among the assumptions made in the economic analysis are the following:
the average load of loaded container is about 12 tons; about 25% of
containers are empty; the average value of container cargo is US$250 per
ton; the distance between Karachi and Lahore is 1,200 kilometers; the
average shipping freight rate paid on Pakistani imports and exports is
US$40 per ton; and the average tax and duty incidence on capital costs
is 25%, while that on operating costs is 20%.



-33-
savings will amount to one-third of packaging costs,
i.e., about 2.5% of cargo value.
D.   Management Information System, Technical Assistance and Training
4.07      The benefits stemming from these components will appear in the
shape of improved operations throughout the entire railway system. Though
difficult to quantify, such benefits are likely to be greater in relative
terms (per unit of investment) than those of the other two project com-
ponents. For the purpose of economic evaluation, the costs of the MIS,
technical assistance and training have been added to the cost of the Unit
Exchange System, as they will help its successful operation.
E.   Economic Justification and Sensitivity Analysis
4.08      In carrying out the economic analysis, taxes and duties included in
capital and operating expenditures have been disregarded. The official
foreign exchange rate has been taken as a good proxy for the relevant shadow
rate. Shadow wages lower than market wages have been used where labor inputs
will be partly supplied by currently under-utilized PR staff.
4.09      The rate of return of the Unit Exchange Maintenance System (Table 14),
including the Management Information System as well as technical assis-
tance and training, has been estimated at 17% on the basis of conservative
assumptions indicated elsewhere in this report. The rate of return of rail
container services (Table 15) has been estimated at 29%. The overall rate of
return for the entire project is 18%. Sensitivity analyses have been carried
out to assess the impact on the rate of return of departures from base case
assumptions:
Base case                         18%
If benefits are 15%
less than expected                14%
If costs are 15%
higher than expected              14%
If benefits materialize
two years later                   10%
In sum, a 15% reduction in benefits or a 15% increase in costs would bring
about a 4-point drop in the rate of return. A two-year delay in project
implementation would result in a drop twice as great.



-34-
F. Risks
4.10      This project does not involve greater risks than those found in
similar projects in the region. However, since the proposed systems and
services are new to PR (the Unit Exchange Maintenance System, the Management
Information System and the container rail services), it will be necessary to
keep close supervision during project implementation; to this end, the
project is likely to require higher than usual supervision input on the part
of Bank staff. As has been indicated elsewhere, the project's success and
justification very much depend on GOP's and PR's commitment to give priority
to freight traffic in the allocation of motive power, and on PR's ability to
run reliable and efficient rail container services.
V. FINANCE AND EARNINGS
A. Introduction
5.01      GOP's stated policy is that PR should earn revenues sufficient to
cover all operating expenses (including a depreciation charge), debt service
and should pay a dividend to the government. As GOP determines the level of
fares and the costs of most of PR inputs (e.g., fuel and labor), the attain-
ment of the policy objective is frequently frustrated by the effects of other
government policies.
5.02      Financial arrangements between PR and GOP, accounting procedures
and arrangements for audit are, with some improvements, the same as when the
10th Railway Project was appraised in 1976. Reporting has been improved and
the Accounts Department now produces timely monthly management and annual
accounts. In 1979, PR completed an inventory of its fixed assets and valued
them at replacement cost, which is now the basis of depreciation. A Costing
Cell has been established and is to be expanded. The introduction of a
Management Information System (MIS), as envisaged by the proposed project,
will enable the Costing Cell to provide information other than historical
accounts, particularly detailed data on the costs of different types of
traffic. PR's annual accounts are audited by the Auditor-General (AG) of
Pakistan. PR has caught up on earlier arrears of work and the AG completed
his report for 1979/80 in June 1981. Agreement was reached at negotiations
that future audited accounts will be available no later than nine months
after the end of each fiscal year.
B. Recent Changes in Financial Policies
5.03      In 1979, GOP set up an "Experts Committee on the Railways" to
examine the financial arrangements between the Railways and GOP. The Commit-
tee reported at the end of 1980, and GOP has implemented almost all of its
recommendations. The major changes are:



-35-
(a)  Payment of a Dividend on Capital at Charge:  Previously PR was
required to pay a dividend to GOP even if its earnings
were insufficient to generate sufficient cash. The pay-
ment was financed by PR taking up an interest bearing loan
from the Treasury or commercial banks. This practice has been
changed and the dividend will be paid to GOP only when the
cash to do so is available after meeting operating costs,
appropriation to funds and debt service.
(b)  Interest on Loans from GOP: Interest payments were treated in
the same way as dividends. If a shortfall of revenues left PR
with insufficient cash to meet its obligations to the Government,
it borrowed from GOP to meet the payments. Should similar
circumstances arise in the future, 1/ sums unpaid will be recorded
in PR's accounts as liabilities to be met from future surplus.
(c)  Depreciation of Fixed Assets: The charge for depreciation,
which is termed an Appropriation to the Depreciation
Reserve Fund (DRF), was previously determined annually
at about 12% of total revenues. It is now based on the
depreciation of the fixed assets valued at replacement
cost.
C.   Past Performance
5.04      PR's revenue and expenditure accounts for the five years 1976/77 to
1980/81 are shown in Table 16 and summarized below:
1/ e.g., in FY81/82



-36-
Summary of Revenue and Expenditure 1976/77 - 1980/81
(in Rs million)
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81
Operating Revenues               1728.5    2197.7    2273.6    2678.8    2931.7
Working Expenses               1536.4    1748.5    1929.1    2483.6    2778.0
Appropriation to
Depreciation Reserve Fund   207.4       263.7      272.8     370.0      420.0
Net Operating Revenue (Loss)    (15.3)    185.5         71.7    (174.8)   (266.3)
Interest on Loans               143.7     154.6      175.7     305.8      135.5
Appropriation to
Improvement Fund              25.1       35.2       39.4      54.9       60.0
Dividend                         34.3     154.1      171.9         -         -
Net Operating Surplus/Loss       (218.4)   (158.4)   (315.3)   (535.5)   (461.8)
Operating Ratio                     101         92        97        107        109
Passenger/Km Million             13,198    15,375    16,712    17,316    16,311
Freight Ton/Km Million            6,793      7,580     8,455      7,555     7,910
Note 1.   The policy changes which resulted from the Expert Committee's
Report (para 5.03) are reflected as follows:
(a)  Appropriation to DRF: figures for 1979/80 and 1980/81 are
calculated on assets valued at replacement cost. On the
previous basis, the charges would have been 321 million
and 352 million.
(b)  Dividends were paid by PR taking up loans from GOP.
(c)  Interest on Loans: the lower costs for 1980/81 resulted from
the cancellation of earlier loans taken up to finance dividends
and other payments to GOP.
Note 2.   Figures of Freight Ton-kms carried are for Revenue Earning
Traffic and exclude PR's own departmental traffic.
Agreements made in Credit 684-PAK envisaged that PR's finances would improve
so that from FY77/78 revenues would be sufficient to cover operating expenses
and debt service and, from FY78/79, they would also be sufficient to earn an
increasing percentage of the dividend until 100% is reached by FY81/82.



-37-
Although dividends were paid up to FY79, the earnings were not adequate
enough to provide the cash. There are four underlying reasons for the
decline in PR's financial health:
(a) costs have risen faster than anticipated. Fuel prices have
increased sharply, partly as a result of GOP's policy on energy
prices. Between 1976 and 1981 total revenues increased by 170%
while total working expenses went up by 185%. The cost of labor
shows the lowest percentage increase due to action by PR to reduce
staff numbers. An analysis of changes in costs and revenues is
given in Table 17;
(b) the low rates charged for passenger services which do not cover the
variable costs of operation;
(c) the priority given to passenger traffic which caused a drop in the
ton/kms of freight carried;
(d) the shortcomings in management (described in Section II).
5.05      PR's operating expenses include costs which would not normally be
borne by a commercial organization. By tradition PR provides its employees
with medical, welfare and educational services and was a pioneer in doing so
before facilities were generally available. The facilities include 60
schools with an enrollment of over 40,000; 75 dispensaries and hospitals with
1,300 beds. The annual expenditure on these services for 1980/81 was about
Rs 113 million (equivalent to 9% of passenger fares or 4% of working expen-
ses). PR has a Police Department with a strength of 7800 (or 6% of the total
employees) which costs Rs 48 million a year; the Department is considerably
in excess of PR's needs for security. The decision by GOP that PR should
provide these non-commercial services is not in question, but it is felt that
the costs should be separately identified in PR's accounts and agreement to
this effect was reached at negotiations. In viewing PR's operating costs it
also should be noted that the railways contribute to the general revenue of
GOP. In 1980/81 PR paid, as part of working expenses, an estimated Rs 330
million in duties and taxes (about 12% of its working expenses). These two
items were equivalent to PR's operating loss in 1980/81.
5.06      The DCA for Credit 684-PAK includes a further agreement that from
FY79/80 the revenues of each service, passenger and freight, would be at
least sufficient to cover its variable costs. This was also recommended by
the Experts Committee. The extent of losses on passenger services was
revealed in 1978 by a costing and traffic study done by consultants as part
of the 10th Project. Passenger fares were increased by 20% in July 1979 and
by 30% in January 1980 to a level where revenues exceeded the variable costs
of services. However, because of subsequent increases in costs, for the
whole of FY80/81 revenues from passenger service were estimated to cover only
86% of the variable costs and 60% of total costs. In that same year freight



-38-
revenues exceeded variable costs by 68% and total costs by 18%. The net
operating deficit of Rs 462 million in that year was made up of a deficit of
Rs 750 million deficit on passenger services and a surplus of Rs 288 million
from freight. Passenger fares have not been increased since January 1980.
The level of passenger fares is low, particularly for second class which
accounts for 88% of passenger kms. The present charge for distances between
41 and 500 km is 5 paisa per km - (equivalent to half a U.S. cent). A
passenger can travel 100 kms for the same cost as a pack of cigarettes. The
fare level today is in real terms about 75% of that charged in 1972 (see
Table 18). The largest loss, in percentage terms, is on the provision of air
conditioned sleeping coaches - for which no justification is evident; the
current fares are estimated to cover only 50% of total costs, and additional
increases in charges for this service are justified (see para 5.10).
5.07       As a means of reducing its losses, PR has identified 62 passenger
trains, of the 450 operated daily, whose variable costs exceed revenues by
Rs 95 million. These trains have three characteristics viz., (a) their
ridership is on average less than 50% of capacity; (b) they are on lines
where there is at least one other train a day; and (c) there is an alterna-
tive bus transport service. PR has begun a program of cancelling trains at a
rate of 2 or 3 a month and at negotiations agreed to continue this until the
revenues from all passenger trains adequately cover variable costs.
5.08       The costing and tariff study also recommended a large number of
changes in the tariffs for freight traffic designed to simplify the charging
system, the majority of which were implemented in 1980.
D. The Next Few Years
5.09       The financial results will be largely determined by the achieve-
ments of PR's new management in carrying more freight and by GOP in permit-
ting increases in passenger fares. The Emmay Report shows that there is no
shortage of freight traffic and that rail haulage is more economical than
road for distances over 250 kms at rates which are profitable to PR. The
financial forecasts have been prepared on the assumption that the decline
in the volume of freight carried will continue in FY81/82 and this trend will
be reversed slowly as the benefits of the 10th and 11th projects begin to
show and freight services are given due priority. The estimates assume that
PR will carry 8,250 million tons/kms in FY85/86 - a lower level than in
FY78/79 which was the best of recent years. Changes in passenger train
services and fares are sensitive political issues in Pakistan. There is a
strong public demand for more seats, particularly on the long distance trains
which are chronically overcrowded, partly because there are no comparable
road coach services. GOP is attempting to meet the increasing demand and to
do this at low prices. While decisions on passenger services and prices have
a wider effect than PR's profitability, it is felt that the extent of the



-39-
losses should be constrained so that at a minimum revenues should cover
variable costs.
5.10      During negotiations it was agreed that GOP would take measures to
ensure that:
(a) from FY82/83 the total revenues from passenger and freight services
be sufficient to cover the costs of operation (including
depreciation) debt service, the appropriation to the
Improvement Fund and a prescribed percentage of the dividend
on Capital-at-Charge, which shall be 100% not later than 1985/86;
(b) from FY83/84, revenues from passenger services be at
least sufficient to meet the variable costs of services;
(c) from FY84/85, revenues from ACC sleeper services cover total costs.
5.11      Financial forecasts, based on these assumptions and covenants, are
given in Table 19 and a summary follows. While any increases in costs over
those assumed would have to be met by additional user charges the estimates
do not take account of any cost reductions due to better management. The
benefit of the proposed capital investment is reflected in the availability
of locomotives to haul freight trains and thus higher freight revenues. The
net operating revenue estimated for 1985/86 represents a Rate of Return on
revalued assets of about 3%. The estimates, though conservative, are pru-
dent.



-40-
Summary of Revenue and Expenditure Forecasts 1980/81 - 1985/86
(in Rs million)
Actual       Forecast                Estimates
1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86
Operating Revenues       2,932.0  3,055.0  4,140.0  4,820.0  5,500.0  6,320.0
Working Expenses       2,777.0  3,100.0  3,438.0  3,845.0  4,393.0  4,989.0
Appropriation to
Depreciation
Reserve Fund           420.0    440.0    470.0    541.0    601.0    620.0
Net Operating Revenue
(Loss)              (265.0)  (485.0)   232.0    434.0    506.0    711.0
Interest on Loans        135.0    130.0    146.0    220.0    260.0    280.0
Appropriation to
Improvement Fund        60.0      67.4     73.7      97.4    112.8    135..9
Dividend                    -        -        -         -         -
Net Operating
Surplus/Loss               (462.0) (682.4)       12.3    116.6   133.3    295.1
Operating Ratio              109.0   115.9       94.4     91.0    90.8      88.8
Passenger/Km
Million                    16,310  16,800   17,200   17,700   18,200   18,700
Freight Tons/Km
Million                    7,900   7,500    7,900    8,000    8,100    8,250
E. Financing Plan
5.12      Table 20 gives estimates of the Sources and Application of Funds
for 1981 to 1985. The following summary shows the financing plan for the
period of the Mid-Term Development Plan 1981-84.



-41-
SUMMARY
Financing Plan 1981-1984
Rs Million    US$ Million       _
Funds Required
A. For Mid-Term Development Plan
Additional Investment                   1,943          185.0          31
Replacement                             2,557          244.0          41
4,500          429.0          72
B. For Other Purposes
Operating Loss                            552           53.0           9
Debt Service                             926           88.0           15
Improvements 1/                           193           18.0           3
Dividend                                  129           12.0           2
1800         171.0          29
Total               6,300          600.0         100
C. Sources of Funds
PR Internal Cash Generation             1,870          178.0          26
Government Funds as Capital            2,524          240.0          40
Government as Loans                     1,354          130.0          22
Government as Grant                       552           53.0           8
Total               6,300          600.0         100
Based on US$1 = Rupees 10.5
1/ Minor Capital works not included in the investment plan.
5.13      In addition to the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit of US$50
million equivalent, GOP has secured bilateral finance from a number of
countries of which the principal donors are Canada, Japan, Sweden, West
Germany and the United Kingdom. The Medium Term Investment Plan includes the
proposed project. The proceeds of the IDA Credit will be onlent to PR in
accordance with GOP's practice for Government departments, with the addi-
tional requirement that sums equivalent to the Rupee value of the loan repay-
ment are added to PR's Capital-at-Charge on which a dividend is paid to GOP
in perpetuity. (See Annex 4 for details) PR pays the local currency equiv-
alent of interest charges and bears the risk of fluctuations in foreign
exchange rates. About 5 million U.S. dollars equivalent will be provided to



-42-
PR's Replacement Capital Account on which the current interest rate of inter-
est is 11%, compared with the forecast CPI changes of 12% for 1982, 11% for
1983 and 10% thereafter.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During the negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal matters:
(a) Completion of plan of reorganization of PR's management
(para 2.02);
(b) A timetable for improving locomotive maintenance and train
operations in accordance with targets set forth in Annex 2
(paras 2.08 and 2.13);
(c) A timetable for reduction of uneconomic passenger trains
(paras 2.13 and 5.07);
(d) PR's Investment Plan and limitation of changes to it (para 2.22);
(e) The provision by PR of Pro Forma accounts and reports showing
separately the costs and revenues of passenger and freight
services and the costs of those activities not directly
related to its railroad operations (para 5.05); and
(f) Financial targets for PR (para 5.10).
6.02      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
SDR 44.3 million equivalent to GOP.



-43-                         ANNEX 1
PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
1.   The Future Role of Railway Transport in Pakistan.  EMMAY Associates Ltd.,
August, 1981.
2.   Master Plan for Movement of Indigenous Fertilizer (1979/80-1982/83).
The Fertilizer Task Force, April 1979. Working Paper (up-date),
September 1981.
3.   The Feasibility Study on the Introduction of Containerization in the
Islamic Republic of Pakistan, Interim Report. Japan International
Cooperation Agency (JICA), March 1981.
4.   Pakistan, Electrifizierung der Eisenbaham Streke Khanewal - Samasata.
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, September 1980.
5.   Pakistan Railways, Management Information Needs, Identification Mission.
W.H. Thompson, December 1980.
6.   Report of Experts Committee on Railways, GOP, September 1980.
7.   Modernization of Locomotive Facilities.  Pakistan Railways, September
1981.
8.   Pakistan Railways, Traffic Costing Study, Final Report.  Sofrerail,
July 1979.
9.   Pakistan Railways, Dry Port Authority, A Case Study (Interim Report).
R. Waheed Associates Ltd., October 1981.
10. Supply Management of D.E. Loco Spares (A Study Based on Visit to US and
Canada, October-November, 1981). M.I. Hasan, CCS, Pakistan Railways,
February 1982.
11. Locomotive Study. Pakistan Railways, April 1979
12. PC-1 Proformas:
- Rehabilitation and Improvement of Track (1977-1983)
- Passenger Carriages for Pakistan Railways (April 1976)
- Procurement of 38 Diesel Electric Locomotives (December 1980)
- Rehabilitation of 42 ALPW-18 D.E. Locos (March 1981)
- Setting Up a Locomotive Factory, Phase-i (February 1981)
- Improved Signaling, Revised PC-1 (October 1981)



Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Plan of Action
For Improving the Operational and Financial Performance of PR
1.        PR shall develop and implement measures to achieve the targets
set forth below:
1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85
(a) Locomotive Maintenance Improvement
Availability of diesel locomotive
as a % of total fleet                   83         84         86         88
Number of diesel locomotives out
of service for want of spares as
a % of total fleet                       4.0        4.0        3.0        2.0
Diesel locomotive downtime during
scheduled heavy repairs
Class I (days)                      32        30         28         25
Class II (days)                     18        17         16         14
Number of traction motors aboard
locomotives not working                250        150        100         25
(b) Freight Train Operations
Diesel locomotive-km per day
per locomotive in use*                 310        345        365       385
Average net-tons**
per freight train*                     570        625        675        725
Total daily number of wagons
to be dispatched out of Karachi        750        780        845        910
(c) Rail Container Operations
Minimum weekly frequency of
container trains in each
direction (Karachi-Lahore)               1          2          3          4
* Excluding shunting and departmental trains
** Metric tons
May 12, 1982



-45-
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
2.        PR shall not increase the number of passenger trains per day on
the Karachi-Peshawar line to exceed the level as shown in the timetable
dated April 15, 1982.
3.        PR shall institute a program to eliminate uneconomic passenger
trains at the rate of 2-3 trains per month beginning July 1, 1982 until
such time as the condition of Section 4.04 of the Development Credit
Agreement is satisfied.
4.        PR shall:
(a)   undertake the following studies on a division-by-division basis
in order to increase the utilization of the motive power and
rolling stock:
1) Volume of traffic at each freight station with a view to
reducing the number of goods booking points by consolida-
tion. The study should be completed by March 3, 1983; and
2) Economics of passenger services on the main line (Karachi-
Peshawar) with a view to (i) elimination of unnecessary
stoppages, in particular the elimination and 4 a.m.; (ii)
methods of increasing coach and locomotive utilization by
diverting equipment from poorly patronized trains or sec-
tions to more remunerative sections. This study should be
completed by December 31, 1982 and the first changes are
expected to be made in the subsequent timetables.
(b)   develop quarterly movement plans aimed at increasing unit and
block trains in order to increase the utlization of available
carrying capacity, taking into account revenue-earning potential
and the specific needs of traffic for which alternative modes
are not available.
(c)   work more closely with the appropriate concerns, particularly
the National Fertilizer Corporation, to produce an orderly
movement plan and improve wagon allocation for transportation of
fertilizer.
(d)   reduce the number of non-professional and unskilled staff
through attrition.
(e)   implement measures to increase average commercial speed of
freight trains to attain 25 km/h by no later than September 30,
1983.
(f)   carry out tests to ascertain the feasibility of application of
the MATE locomotive operation on the line from Sibi to Quetta.



-46-
Page 3 of 3
(g)   study the use of Pipri shed for running repair and servicing
of main line train diesel locomotives.
(h)   increase the number of coaches per passenger train on the main
line Karachi-Rawalpindi.
(i)   promptly implement recommendations, to be agreed with the
Association, resulting from Supply Management of Diesel Electric
Locomotive Spares Study.
May 12, 1982



-47-                         ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
TERMS OF REFERENCE
STUDY OF THE FUTURE ROLE OF RAILWAY TRANSPORT IN PAKISTAN I/
I. BACKGROUND
1.        Similar to the experience in many other countries, the railroads
in Pakistan have been losing freight traffic in recent years due mainly to
road transport competition. This trend will be accelerated by the completion
of the Karachi-Multan pipeline, currently scheduled to start operations in
1981. Nevertheless, rail transport is a very important means of communica-
tion in Pakistan; if moved around 17.3 billion passenger-kilometers and 8.4
billion ton-kilometers in 1979/80.
2.        The Government of Pakistan (GOP) has been investing, with World
Bank assistance, in the rehabilitation of infrastructure, motive power and
rolling stock and in the improvement of operations and finances of the
Government-owned Pakistan Railways (PR). Important improvements have been
obtained under the ongoing Tenth Railway Project (Loan 1372/Credit 684-PAK
of March 1977) which have helped increase PRs capacity. Further improvements
will be obtained through the purchase of urgently needed spare parts for
locomotives and the provision of a backbone microwave network including
related communications and signalling equipment. These crucial elements of
the ongoing project should be completed within the next two years and should
allow PR to improve the quality and dependability of its transport services.
3.        The structure and pattern of traffic flows have changed recently.
Further changes are expected after the completion of ongoing fertilizer,
cement and steel mill projects. These changes will further affect PRs opera-
tions and role by modifying the relative weight of imports/exports and inter-
nal distribution flows in the country.
4.        PR is currently preparing a three-year railroad development plan
including a manufacturing plant for rebuilding components and assemblies for
locomotives in a new management information system and container transport
facilities.
1/ This study was completed in 1981.



-48-
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
II. OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
5.        The objective of the technical assistance to be provided under this
contract is to ascertain the future economic role of railroad transport
services in Pakistan in sufficient detail for appraisal of a proposed
Eleventh Railway Project by a Bank Mission in August 1981.
6.        To this end, the consultant shall review, check and appropriately
amend whatever work and data collection has been done by GOP/PR in connection
with road and rail transport demand in Pakistan and shall produce estimates
of future demand for inter-urban passenger and freight movements in the
country. In the case of freight traffic, the consultant shall study the
behavior of the major commodities now moved by PR or which could constitute a
potential source of new traffic. These commodities should include wheat,
rice, paddy, petroleum products, cement, fertilizer, containers and any other
commodity or group of commodities which the consultant deems appropriate.
For each commodity, the consultant will establish:
(a) Origin and destination and total annual traffic volumes,
indicating, when required, seasonal fluctuations. These
data shall be compiled for 1975-1980, indicating the
modal distribution (road, rail or air transport). Major
points need only be considered. Similarly, the cargo
with origin and/or destination abroad shall be classified
only in four groups (Afghanistan, Iran, India and other
countries) indicating for each group the port of entry
or exit into or out of Pakistan.
(b) For the 1979/80 series, the consultant shall, in addition,
estimate the approximate travel times, tariffs and overall
door-to-door transport costs based on a review of existing
costs and tariffs and on detailed interviews with shippers,
freight forwarders and other users of freight transport
services. In this case, the consultant shall also identify
other major reasons for user's preference of any mode
(dependability, financial expedience, availability of
storage facilities, marketing convenience, easier transfer
to other modes, etc.).
7.        The consultant shall review the ongoing or proposed developments
in Pakistan's economy, particularly in the agricultural, industrial and
mining sectors which may bring about substantial changes in existing traffic
patterns or produce new transport demand, within the next five years
(1981-86).



-49-
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
8.        Based on the findings under 2.02 and 2.03 above; the consultant
shall estimate two possible scenarios of future freight traffic demand in
Pakistan. The first would assume a growth in the country's gross domestic
product (GDP) of 4% per annum in real terms between 1981 and 1986; and the
second would assume a growth of 6% per annum. In establishing an elasticity
of transport demand to GDP growth, the consultant may take into consideration
that between 1971/72 and 1978/79 the country's GDP grew at about 5.2% per
annum in real terms, while freight traffic in ton-kilometes increased by
approximately 7.0% annually. These two hypotheses of future GDP growth are
to serve only as a general framework of analysis in building up the two
scenarios. The consultant may modify them as he sees fit. Specifically, he
should incorporate into the scenarios specific assumptions regarding the
likely completion of ongoing projects (e.g. the Karachi Steel Mill) which
would materially affect transport demand.
9.        In addition to the two scenarios mentioned above, the consultant
shall estimate two scenarios of cargo modal split between road and rail
transport, in line with his assumptions regarding future development of road
and rail transport infrastructure, services and technology in the coming
years.
10.       The consultant shall carry out a similar exercise to the one
requested above for rail passenger transport demand in the future. It is
suggested that, as a basis for developing future transport demand, he bears
in mind that gross national product per capita increased by about 3 percent
annually in real terms in the early seventies, reach US$200 in 1977. Pas-
senger transport demand in Pakistan (in passenger-kilometers) apparently
increased by about 10% between 1971/72 and 1978/79. In developing the last
two rail transport scenarios, the consultant shall assume in one case that
passenger rail tariffs would be adjusted in line with inflation (alternative
one) and that in addition to adjusting increases in real terms would be added
to the present level of tariffs in order to at least cover relevant variable
costs (alternative two). Although the modal split among rail, bus and all
transport should be based on plausible scenarios regarding future passenger
fares for each mode, the consultant shall establish present transport costs
for passengers via each mode and the difference between such costs and exist-
ing fares. He should then assess the changes in modal split that would
occur, should the tariffs reflect the relevant costs. This comparative
analysis needs to be done only for the base year chosen for the demand
analysis (ideally 1980).
11.       Based on the findings and studies under the previous paragraphs,
the consultant shall establish PR's future role in the movement of inter-city
passengers and goods in Pakistan.



-50-                        ANNEX 4
-50-                 ~~~~Page  1 of 3
PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAYS PROJECT
The Basis for Financial Forecasts
1.0       In 1961 the Railway was "separated" from the Government and
prepared its own budget and accounts but in recent years PR has been
treated as a Government department in all matters except its liability
to pay a dividend on Capital-at-Charge. PR's accounts are kept on the
basis of annual receipts and expenditures though there is a slow change
towards keeping commercial accounts. Since 1977, PR's budget has been merged
into the Federal Budget.
2.0 Funds for Capital Investment
A.   Replacements are provided as follows:
Local Currency
(i)   Provided by PR from the Depreciation Reserve Fund.
(ii)   A shortfall in any one year is provided by GOP
as "grant in aid" and added to the Capital-at-Charge.
Foreign Currency
Provided by GOP. From the DRF, PR pays to GOP the local
currency equivalent of debt service. The onlending terms are
arranged so that GOP retains the benefit of any concessional
financing. Current terms of on-lending are 20 years including
four years of grace, interest is 11%.
B.   Additional Capital Investment
Local Currency
Provided by GOP and added to Capital-at-Charge.
Foreign Currency
Provided by GOP. PR pays the local currency equivalent of
interest. Then, as the principal is repaid, an equivalent sum
is added to PR's Capital-at-Charge attracting a liability to
dividend in perpetuity.
Fixed Assets
3.0       Fixed assets registers were made for assets as at July 1, 1973 and
updated at July 1, 1976 and again in 1979 and valued at current replacement



-51-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
costs. The exercise was done according to methods designed by consultants,
Booz Hamilton and Co. in 1968. The work was reviewed in 1978 by consultants
SOFRERAIL as part of the Costing and Tariff Study. Between the years when
assets are methodically revalued, the charge for depreciation is increased
annually by indexing.
The Improvement Fund
4.0       The Fund is used to finance minor capital works on Public and
Passenger Amenities, Staff Welfare, Unremunerative Projects Research and
Development. The Fund is financed by an appropriation of 5.5% from the
earnings from passenger fares.
Assumptions for Future Years
5.0       Revised estimates for FY81/82 are used as the base year.  Passenger
traffic measured in passenger/kms is assumed to increase at 2.75% annually.
This is lower than the actual growth rate of the last ten years but is pru-
dent in view of the measures proposed to reduce some unpopular passenger
services and to maintain fares at levels at least sufficient to cover the
variable costs of operation.
Freight Revenues
6.0       1978/79 was PR's best year, with 8,455 million ton/kms of revenue
earning freight. Traffic is assumed to fall to 7,500 in FY81/82, and to
increase slowly to 8,250 million ton/kms in 1985/86.
Costs
7.0       Operating expenses are based on the price levels of 1981, increased
by 10% per annum for estimated inflation. Fuel consumption is assumed to be
directly variable with tons/kms and passenger/kms. Labor costs assume no
increase in staff strengths.
Net Operating Surplus/Loss
8.0       Any loss will be met by payments from GOP.  A surplus in a future
year will be applied to repaying any amounts of unpaid debt service and then
to either a dividend on Capital-at-Charge or a contribution to Replacement
Capital Expenditure.
Dividend on Capital-at-Charge
9.0       At July 1981, the Capital-at-Charge was Rupees 4,369 million; the
full amount of dividend for 1981/82 is Rs 225 million.



-52-
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
Changes in Costs and Revenue
10.0      The year-by-year changes and the relative importance of cost items
are shown in Table 15. The ratios between the 4 main elements of cost are:
Actual for 1980/81                Estimated for 1985/86
Fuel      27%                             28
Labor     42%                             40
Material  19%                             21
Other     11%                             11
Balance Statements
11.0      As PR maintains its accounts on a Revenue and Expenditure Basis,
balance statements of the normal commercial type are not prepared.
Proportions of Fixed and Variable Costs
12.0      For 1980/81, PR estimates the proportions of expenses for passenger
and freight service to be:
Total Expenses                Attributable to
Passenger Services Freight Services
100                  59%                   41%
of which
Variable Costs        70%
Fixed Costs           30%
The passenger share of total expenses is assumed to decline to 53% in FY86
due to the diversion of resources to freight.



ElF.VCENTH RAIlWAY PROJECT
PR's F:reight  'raffic hR        Commoodities from 1969/70 to 1980/81
1969/70                  1_ 196/77                                   191//78                   -          198/78                                1929/80                             1980/81
T          TK           AD        T          TK           AR        T          TK          AT)           T           TK           AD                       TK           AR         T          TK           AD
Wheat                                1,305        724.2        555    1,128         610.3        541   1,423       1,347.2         947       2,069       2,376.1       1,146       1,149      1,012.5         881        809         583.1         721
Rice and Paddy                         706        505.9        716      625         509.4        815      329        794.1         958       1,005          996.6        992         754        722,2         958         539        529.4         982
Other Grains                           162        121.9        751       54          38.6        715       20         13.7         635          15           10.1        673          11          8.4         764         10          10.4        991
Sugar and SRgarnano                    I00         48.4        486      268        100.1         374      178         67.0         376         196           91.0        669         211        202.7         961        171         143.9        842
Timber and Firewood                    609        221.0        364      438         160.5        366      406        156.4         385         351          139.7        398         414        169.7         410        434         172.7        398
Coal and Coke                          984        894.6        911      471        486.3       1,033      390        425.1       1,090         333          371.1      1,114         328        380.6       1,157        361         432.6      1,199
P.O.L.                                 759        803.2    1,057    1,629        1,686.7       1.035   1,613       i,.'84.5      1,106       1,514       1,752.8       1,156      1,680       1,880.4       1,119      1,561      1,675.5       1,073
Ce-ent                               1.113        333.3        299      958        485.4         423      9Z2        231.6         3.36        472         230.0         487         792        526.4         664        784         561.4        716
F-rtilizer                             988        709.8        719      856        633.3         740      709        596.5         841         691         668.8         968         977        785.5         847      1,081         875.5        810
Iron and Steel                         228        257.8     1,133       104         36.1         347       94         84.2         896          71          53.9         759          38         43        1,132          34         42.0       1,235 5
Other Co-mdities                     3,974      2,248.4        566   2,955       2,126.6         720   2,846       2,020.3         713       2,417       1,765.1         730      2,471       1,824.2         738      3,369      2,884.0         856
Total Reseoue Earning Traffic   1, 928          6,870.5        629   9,486       6,793.3         716   9,428       7,570.f         883      9,074        8,455.2         932      8,775       7,555.6         861      9,153      7,910.5         864
PR Traffi                            1,598        769.3        505   4,882       1,063.4         218   3,916         976.6         249         884         919.5         319      3,078       1,042.9         339      3,041        891.2         30?
Total Traffic                      12,526       7,639.8        651  14,368       7,856.7         547  13,344       8,547.2         640      11,958       9,374.7         784     11,853       8,598.5         725    12,194       8.801.7         722
Notes:   T= Metric Tons (000)
TK- Metric Ton Kil.oeters (000,000)
ADS Average Distaner (khs)
Source:  Pakistan Railways and Appraisal Mission
March 1982



PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
PR's Passenger Traffic from 1959/60-1980/81
1959/60       1969/70       1975/76       1976/77       1977/78         1978/79        1979/80       1980/81
I.     Passengers (millions)
Upper Class  -              n.a.              0.5           0.5           0.4           0.2             0.2            0.2           0.2
First Class  -              n.a.              5.7           6.1           4.9           5.0             5.4            4.6           3.8
Second Class -              n.a.            125.7         140.7         137.2         143.8           140.4          138.9         119.2
Total                       121.1           131.9         147.3         142.6         149.0           146.0          143.7         123.2
II.    Passenger - Kms
(millions)
Upper Class  -/             n.a.            n.a.            265           265            122            107            161           205
First  Class                n.a.           n.a.           1,265         1,137         1,434           1,868          1,747         1,637
Second Class -              n.a.           n.a.          11,426        11,797        13,819         14,737          15,407        14,469
Total                       8,894           9,842        12,956        13,199        15,375          16,712         17,315        16,311
JII.   Average Travel Distance
(Kms)
I/
Upper Class  -              n.a.           n.a.             542          602           626             634            765           823
First Class                 n.a.           n.a.             206          230           290             349            380           435
Second Class -              n.a.           n.a.              81           86            96             105            111           121
All Passengers               73              75              88           93           103             114            121           132
1/  As of 1978/79, "upper class" includes both ACC and upper class services.  Up to and including
1977/78, "upper class" includes ACC, upper class and the old first class services; "first class"
is the old second class; and "second class" is the old third class.
Source: Pakistan Railways and Appraisal Mission
March 1982



PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
PR's Staff by Department and Category as of July 1, 1981
Civil   Mech.    Trans-                                                                                     Head        All
Eneg.   Engg.      ort ation   Commercial   Stores   Medical   Electrical   Police   Accounts   Quarters   Other   Total
D. S. Lahore                    4,818   6,257      3,395          2,030           -        559         1,301           -          -           -         609     18,969
D. S. Multan                    5,704   3,394    2,957            1,586           -        418           632           -          -           -          69     14,760
D. S. Sukkur                    5,444   2,913    2,616            1,184           -        386           557           -          -           -         139     13,239
D. S. Karachi                   4,568   6,657      3,632          2,105           -        756           838           -          -           -         295     18,851
D. S. Rawalpindi                5,003   7,464    4,242            1,661           -        606         1,082           -          -           -          -      20,058
D. S. Ouetta                    2,889   2,011      1,080            260           -        345           299           -          -           -           6      6,889
D. S. Workshops                   306  14,153         -             -             -        228         2,624           -          -           -          -      17,311
D. C. 0. S. (Main Depot)
MGPR                    -        -         -              -          1,992        -            -             -          -          -           -       1,992
D. C. 0. S. (Shop Depot)
MGPR                    -        -         -              -          1,135        -            -             -          -           -          -       1,135
D. C. 0. S. Karachi Cantt.        -        -          -             -          1,544         -           -             -          -           -          -       1,544
A. W. M. Signal Shop               70      -          -              -            -                                               -           -          -           70
A. W. M. (Bridge) Jhelum           47      -          -              -            _                                               -           -          -           47
F,A. & C.A.O.  (GB)               -        -          -             -             -                                            2,619          -          -       2,619
Principal Walton Training
School                  -        -         100            -             -                                               -          -           -         100
X.E.N. Water Supply Lahore        191      -          -             -             -                                               -           -          -          191
X.E.N. Bridge Lahore              -        301        -             -             -          -           -             -          -           -          -          301
Track Supply Officer
Lahore                   42      -         -              -             -         -            -             -          -           -          -           42
S.A.O./ADMN-II (E-III)            507      126        351           505          496         28           31           -          -         1,196       100      3,340
S.P.O.I.  (Officers only)         -        -         -                     -           -           -                   -          -           -          -          -
Supdts. W&W Walton                -        -         -              -             -         -            -            118         -           -          -          118
M.S. Cairns Hospital              -        -          -             -             -         31-6         -             -          -           -          -          316
X.E.N.  (Track Field)              42      -         -              -             _                -                   -          -           -          -           42
X.E.N.(CSF) Sukkut                 14      -          -              -            -          -                         -          -           -          -           14
ADMN/ET                           -        -          -              -            -          -             12          -          -           -          -           12
ADMN/Elec. Division               -        -          -              -            -          -             6           -          -           -          -            6
ADMN/Div. Engg.                   -        -          -             -             -                -                   -           -          -          -          -
I.G.Police                        -        -         -              -             -         -            -         7,738          -           -          -       7,738
TOTAL                          29,645  43.276   13,373            9,331        5,167     3,647         7,361        7,856      2,619        1,196     1,218   129,704
Source: Pakistan Railways
March 1982



-56-
Table 4
PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Inventory of PR Track
Double Track        Electrified
Route-Kms          Route Kms_          Route Kms
Broad Gauge            7,766              1,018                 283
Meter Gauge              446                 -
Narrow Gauge             611                 - _
Total                 8,823               1,018                 283
Transportation      Commercial
Running Track          Siding             Siding       Total
Broad Gauge           8,917                 2,260               148        11,325
Meter Gauge              445                    98               10           553
Narrow Gauge             642                    77               10           729
Total                10,004                 2,435               168        12,607
Notes:
1. Route-Kms represents the kilometerage centre to centre
of stations. It does not include the kilometerage of
multiple lines, yards, sidings etc.
2. Track-Kms include all tracks in multiple lines, yards,
sidings etc.
Source: Pakistan Railways
May 1982



PAKTI STAl
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECf
Tetory o       lotl-e Power and Rolling Stock (Actual N-labcrs)
Inumbers an oP June 30, 1081
Stean Lorunntives                           Diesel Eiectrig                     Electric        DIe-el      Tralleed    Ceachiger
_________  _______    Enohiug      Othe Enechieg         Freight We  u
_ocootives                     Lacumntisves      Reilcats                 Vehicles        Vehcles          4 Wheelers    nge
T81                                       474                             29               46           124        2,061             691            31,643      3,097
Mule Lice    Branch Line   Shunter    Main Line    Branch Line   ihunter
Lens than 20 yearn            -               -             -
Stean        Bet. 21 end 40 year           67                            -
Over 41 years                 -              159           155
Le.s  than 10 years                                                     T19             85           6
Diesel       Bet. 11 aed 20 yearn                                                     103            53            5                             33             88
3et. 21 and 30 yearn                                                     62             25          13                              10            36
Over 31 yearn                                                                                         3                              3
Leoo thae 10 ypoem
Electric    Bet. 11 and 20 years                                                                                                  29
Bet. 21 and 30 years
Suer 31 years
AGE
ACE                                                                                                                                                                              2h5~L .  h- 1     7 -  6  39      h38        554
Lges  thee 10 yearn                                                                                                                                           567              13            25,535       2,299
passenger   Bet. 11 aud 40 years                                                                                                                                            485             117             1 330          -
Carriern     Bvet  45 yendA                                                                                                                                                 241             352             4,140         244
Less than 10 yearn
Freight      Bet. 11 and 40 years
WSains       Bet. 41 and 45 years
Over 45 yearn
l-ea  thee 10 t-ne
Carrying    Bet. 11 and 15 tens
Capacity     Bet. Ih and 20 tans
uf        Bet. 21 and 25 tens
Freight      Bet. 26 and 30 tons n1,643
Waguns       Bet. 31 aad 35 tons 
Bet. 36 eed 40 toan                                                                                                                                                                                          103
See. 41 dand 45 tensI,7
BRt. 46 and 50 tnns                                                                                                                                                                                           368
Over 51 tans 
I/  Figures  te arrived at by recokning each vehicle an one
nnhur, lrmespective of the nine af diese- 1ailcars
2/  EncIuding brake oaua, deperteenstl wagons, special wagone
_nd privately-owned -agons
3/ Inclndes 40 re-engRoed anita
4/ Includes 2 re-engined -nits



-5g-
taibleS
Page 2 of 3
el | , en j t t t R ~0,-'                                                          '     N'O J 
0.10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N N                                                                  4 
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r Io                                                                                             n
Nc                  I0e                                                                                                                               
c                                                                                                                                                     a     a
0 ~ ~~ ~     ~ 00  0                   0             00a                        a     a      aa        i          at
o ~        ~        a         a    w            a       ~        O    e          a    wa                       a     a      a                       C
04 al.                                     gtN             a.                  N                    o    . a      . o-a
NO                        4    0           40                 O              N    N              O     ON       N      N 0                        
Na=V                                        -aa             Nt                -aa           ~        o     0 N      o                        a
a,                        a    a           a    a           a    ,           o t                     a     a    a      a                    0
aw                         C    ,           w    N       a        ,       t     o .           a o        o     e      a      -  
0       a      0 II0
01,=l~~~~~~~ I 
a o                                                                  aI                                      ,.                                        .
_           a ,                                               --                  0a-v-                                                                          0  
a              0                                                                  o             toN .aa0
o~~~~C                                                                                 I                                                                   -Ir



PAKISTAN
FLEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
levee' cry of Motive Power cod Roiling Stock (Actoal Nuombrs)
Narrow Gauge Lines
Nohbers as_of Jone 30, 1981
Steam Locomotives                                Etese                       Eletriange                                 Other           Freight Wagons
Electric  iesel      Coahin        Coaching    h4hees Bge
Locomotives                   Locomotives    Railcars    Vehirles         Vehicles
Total in fleet                                           381                                       474                                                       107            45             100        419
Main l.ine   Brsnch Lice      hoter    M.iv  ice        r     Le       hcter
Less then 20 years
Steam        Bet. 21 and 40 years
Over 41 yeace
Less than 10 years
Diesel       Bet. 11 and 20 years
Bet. 21 and 30 years
Over 31 years
Less than 10 years
Electric    Bet. 11 and 20 years
Bet. 21 and 30 years
Over 31 years
AGE
Less than 10 years
Parsenger   Bet. 11 and 40 years
Coach        Bet. 41 and 45 years                                                                                                                               3
Over 46 years                                                                                                                                   104             45
Lens thee 10 year.s                                                                                                                                                                         -
Freight      Bet. 11 sod 40 years                                                                                                                                                             -         25
Wagons       Bet. 41 and 45 years
Over 45 years                                                                                                                                                                  95         394
Carrying    Less thee 10 tons
Capacity     Bet. 11 and 25 tons
of
Freight
Wagons
Source:  Fakistan Railways and Appraisal Mission
March 1982



PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Diesel Locomotive Fleet - Age  Class  and Manufacturer
COUNTRY                                                                                                                                                                               TOTAL
OF                                                                                                                                                                                  ON
CLASSES    MANUFACTURERS    1947    1954    1955   1956   1957   1958   1959   1961    1962    1963   1964   1965   1966   1967    1970   1975   1976 _1977    1979   1980   1981   LINE
ADE-36          U.S.A.,         3                                                                                                                                                                        3
ALU-14          U.S.A.                          7                    _____7
GEU-61          U.S.A.                 10                                                            _____                                                                                              10
FAU-66         FRANCE                                           3                                                                                                                                        3 _
CLP-15        AUSTRALIA                         8       1                              ____                          ___                               ___  _                         _       _    _     9
ALPW-16          U.S.A.                                  2                                                            _____ _2
ALPIq-18         U.S.A.                                                 4    ___ _3
ATRU-95          U.S.A.    ____ 16                                               9                                                                                                                       25___  25
ALU-18          I.S.A.                                                                30                                                             __                                                 30
ALU-12          U.S.A.                                                                         11      4 2     -- --                          ___53_
ALU-20         U.S.A.                                                                          12      30      10                                                                                       52 
GEU-64         U.S.A.   ________                                                    ___ _                                _                              __
ALU-26         U.S.A.                                                I_                                                           
ALU-24          U.S.A.          2__              _  ___ __ __  _ __                                                                     20 _  _          _ _30 __                    _      __          20
GEU-20         U.S.A.                                                                                                                          42                                                       42
GEU-15         U.S.A.                                                                                                                          23,1_  _ 3  __30 73_  23 15  _6 _ I 3 _0 _               23
GM10-30        U.S.A.                                _ ______36                                                                                                       ____36
Gm115-15        U.S.A.        ________32   __    __                                                                                                                                     __              32
*ARP-20          U.S.A.                       ___     ________-                                                                                         ___-              2      19    -  2    2___      23
*ARU-20          U.S.A.                       I__    _____                                                                                                                     ___       11       6      19
*FRU.75          FRANCE               _ _ _   ____ _____1                                                                                                                                 1    __ _       2
GMCU-15          CANADA                         ______30                                                                                                                                       ___        0
qAUl-- I        JAPAN                                                                                                                                                                    44
TLOTAL_                          3      10      15       3       3      59       9    30        23       72     10        5       1      20      65      68       1       3      50      18       6     47
* Re-engined Utnits - Canadian MU1W engines.
Source:  Pakistan Railways
March 1982



-61-
Table 7
PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Selected Operating Statistics (1975/76-1980/81)
1975-76          1976-77         1977-78          1978-79          1979-80          1980-81
System
Total route (km)                             8,311            8,815            8,815            8,815            8,323            8,823
Total staff (000)                              137.5            140.0            139.8            139.3            132.3            130.3
Traffic
Passengers -total (million)                    147              143              149              146              144              123
Metropolitan                                    42               41               44               46               43               38
Non-metropolitan                               105              102              105              100              101               85
Pass-km-total (million)                     12,957           13,199           15,375           16,713           17,316           16,311
Average journey (km)                            87.9             92.6            103.2            114.0            120.0            132.4
Net paying tons (million                        10.1              9.49             9.43             9.08             8.78             9.15
Net paying ton-km (million)                  7,890            6,794            7,581            8,455            7,556            7,911
Average haul (km)                              594              547              640              784              725              722
Total gross ton-km (million) B.C.           33,264           28,999           32,381           33,434           32,572           31,681
Loaded freight car-km (million)                453.4            385.7            425.4            473.1            421.4            384.8
Empty freight car-km (million)                 273.6            223.3            284.6            293.3            301.3            295.9
Traffic Density
Pass.km/route km (thousand)                  1,471            1,497            1,744            1,896            1,964            1,849
Freight-net ton-km/route km (thousand)  1,056                   891              971            1,063              976              897
Operations
Train-km-passengers (million)                   33.6             33.7             34.9             34.7             34.9             35.5
Train-km-freight (million)                      14.5             12.3             14.0             14.8             14.1             13.5
Train-km-total (million)                        48.1             46.0             48.9             49.5             49.0             49.0
Loco-km-steam (million)                         15.2             13.6             14.3             14.0             13.7             13.0
Loco-km-diesel (million)                        41.0             42.7             42.7             48.6             43.3             44.2
Loco-km-electric (million)                       3.52             3.54             3.87             3.64             3.65             3.45
Operating Efficiency (Freight)
Gross ton-km/train km (B.G.)                 1,297.6          1,307.4          1,200.0          1,304.4          1,269.5          1,252.5
Net ton-km/train km (B.G.)                     618              647              616              647              604              591
Net ton-km/loaded car km (B.G.)                 19.4             20.1             19.9             20.0             19.8             20.0
Car turnaround time (days)                      16.1             17.2             15.6             15.5             14.9             14.7
Average speed (km/h)                            18.3             17.7             17.5             17.5             17.6             18.2
Traffic units/employee (thousand)              254.7            241.6            278.9            307.2            326.7            311.1
Availability
Steam locomotives (X)                           83.3             80.5             85.1             84.0             82.7            83.4
Diesel locomotives (%) l/                       84.2             88.1             82.4             83.6             84.7            84.7
Electric locomotives (X)                        91.3             88.7             88.4             86.3             82.6            81.7
Freight cars (%)                                94.7             94.4             94.2             95.2             94.6            92.8
Passenger cars (1)                              80.4             81.0             73.3             76.7             78.7            79.2
1/ These figures do not reflect reliability and overstate
actual availability by not reflecting such factors as
about 250 traction motors being inoperative on the
available units.
Source: Pakistan Railways
March 1982



IA 'K l U I \.
ELEVENTlH RArLW  PROJECT
Medin-Term  lan 1981/82-1983-84 and the Pro-,ct I/
(Rn Million)
Serial                                                                            Total                                   1911 82                               1982 83           1_ 983-34  _                        __                    1984-85
No.       Descripilao                            1it              Qu.aniltr    Loc.al   I .1.   Tota1l    O>uanoto    I .otai   ''.i.  o1L_    Ooti-    l,oc-l,   F.C. l. oIa         loa-i     local   P.E.   Total     O        tL   Local   FE.   Tota
1.      Socv ronstruct_no
Coo--rsio-o f Mari
lodoas-Bansol Soc.                       -                 -          5.88              5 .00                4.87    -        4.5                    .13              .13
Sobtotal I                                                            5.88     -        5.36       -         4.87     -       4. e- 13                                .1 3
71.      Tr.ack RahbiLltatLon
(a) Conploto Track
--l lHR-KYC                       MiIs               180      389.40  185.(8   574.40         60      129.40   3S.00 184.4'         60      125.00  68.00  185.00         60      135.00   70.00  205.00
(b)  Cooplote Track
oooooal Ll.M-PSC                 Miles                30      154.20   28.60  182.80          10       49.20    3.60  57.8'         10       50.80  10.00   60.00         10       55.00   10.00   65.00
(r)  Rall e-a                          MIlos               60       40.41 . 12.55   52.96          20       10.41     2.55  12.9t        20       15.80   5.00   20.00          20       1.80    5.80   20.T00
(dl Sloopeor renewal
Maie l.ioi MIles                                      60       28.70   21.60   50.30          20        8.70   11.60  20.30         20       10.00   5.88    15,80        20        10.08     8.88   13.00
In) Sleeper resnealI
Soccodary Lino                    Mil-s              180       39.69   41.69   31.38          60        5.69   13.69  19.3'         60       13.00  14.80   27.00         60       21.00   14.00   35.00
(I)  Pointr & XiRgs
-ad Rail Anchors                 Varlo-s              -        01.20   24.58 _65.78   V-rio_s 18.20    11.58  3                 V.., RirLos    9.00 _ 6.00    15.00         -       14 .8    00    7,20, 0
Sabtotal II                                                   693.60  314.02 1007.62          -       221.62  104.02 325.6          -       222.00 100.00  322.00                 2 750.00  110.80  360.00
III.       Brdidoe Work k Cioil
_ngieengcl Works
(a)  Bridge works                       -                  -         13.00      -    23.80 0                 6.75      -      6.75        -        8.00    -        8.00         -        8.25              8.25
(b)  Cioil EsRi-oooiog
Works                                                 -        52.00       -    52.00         -        18.00      -    18.0'.        -       17.00     -      17.00        -        17.00      -      17.00
SObtotal  III                                                        79.00            75.08                 24.75       -    24.75                 25.00    -       25.00                25.25      -      25.25
IV.      Marskalling Ya-d
at Pipri                               No.                 1          4.75     5.00   9.75         -         0.75      0.00   9.7.                   -                -          -
V.       1.ine Capacity Works 
Te-r-nal FPolLitis
(a)  Isc doobl ihg
(Kotoi-Hyd.ra.bd)                KR                  1.6        3.80      -      3.00         -         3.00             3.3(
(b)  Othor 00 40100 corhs              0.0i060            -          30.O0      -    30.00       V-ario      8.(8       -     81.(   Rarious    10.00        -      10.00    Var-ois    12.00    -         12.00
Ic)  Lahor-  Dry Port Z./              No.                1         44.30   28.00  77.30           -         1.30       -      1.31               26.00  19.00   45.00           -       17.00    9.00    26.00
(d) 1il Yard at
Mahoud Kot,                                                      2.00            2_.0         -         2.00             2.41,
Sbob-tol  V                                                          79.10   28.00 107.33)                   14 301     -    14 . 1,      _        36.00  19.00    55.00                 29.00      9.2(    78.00
v] .      ()To 1---iatslot ioo
Vl.  ( co TeLelased sicoollkco  -             Ranun         277. 90   2880 567.90          -        165.90  148.00 313.9(         -       70.00  130.00  200.00                   44.00   10.30    54.00
(b)  Inproo.d nigoallog                -              VarRosa        65.00    35.00 100.00         r         9.00    5.00  14.00         -       26.00   18.80    36.00                           20.0(   50.08                                              tse'
Subtoral VI                                                         344.90  323.00 667.90                  174.90  153.00 327.9(                  96.00  140,00  236.00                  74.00   30.00  104.00



PAIISTAN
ELLVPRTR RA[LWAY PROJECT
Medim-Term Plan 1981/8.-1983/84 and the Project 1,
(Re MRllion)
Iot.>l                                  1031 8                                 1-_95-3                                  I93-R84         _1984-85 .. .
No.        Q. ctoI                                                  Qa                     I. r  F  Ttll     c0--ti'    I , I(   F(=         l-  I                                               ''-t  I i  .f  I,,,I    0.3F.   I,1    Qoartity   Local    F.E.  Total
V11        MloLl-c  P-wet & Roll-   StReoce
' 1) I_oti-
R--engi,elio n  D.1.
Lo .. oti-o                      N".                 611        '0.03  '1.00 9     T 00         -        10.1n   10.00   2.10            -      10.0      10.0     'OO              (_
lopmotcosNT                                          p         oo.cc    10.00) 52)00           -            O0T    2010   3li.1          -                                              I.0  ccl    c'  10 -Onc  200.30n  043.O3
i} P i>(uaoll   o    .  No                  13       191.00   '170.00 56'.00           -         51.10   SC0.3On 1136.3         - _     '  cn no     00   .00.00         -       16.0c   TO 1(      'h 26.(
Pctomo t oeo      D.E.
IV)  - oce-o                     N-.                 00        5cn1      65.00  70.02           -           .I               .01         -         Ti       -        .01         -        0.01    65(cn   70.nn
v .) Uit ExchAoge Pool               -                   -        69.00    138.00 207.00           -          -                   -         -       18.Q0    45.00    b3.00          -       18.00    45.00   63.00         -        33.90  48.000   03100
(b) OIlleoc 81001)
i) Ncw Poc-e-g-r
Carr-,oo-                       N .                 010      4iT.8O   :15. 0n 700.80                   145. W0  75.00   2)0.83         -        165.0(   75.00 .'40.00          -      165 GO    75.00  230.00
ii) llOppoC  T-ruck                NS.                  430        88.60    11.40 100.00          ) c       33.10             00.00        50         18.60  11.40   50.00       130         20.00       -      20.00
iTil  Container l,oo-c               NL.                  100       34.03    '6.0( (.0.00                       -       -                                      2 T 0.00   30.00      -        '04.0      6.00    30.00
SOihbotal VII                                                        iL.O.O 0184.40 2267.80                     252.01 216.90  469.41                    413.70 541.40 955.10                    301.00  301.00   392.00                  00.00  40 00    01.00
\     I        .   P &lo     M-chinerT  tcr
W-rkshop,, Shodt _ad_rp))LO
In)  Ploot b Rophieory                   No.             Varioun        ! .00   48.00  75.00            -        15.00  23.00 n     '0 00        -         4.00    8.oc   12.00          -         8.00    16.00
(b)  Otrocoro   'cke                      -                  --k   -     1.0       -        . -         _          0.03             3 8.00       -        10.00      -     I3. o         -         1. 03     -       13.00
Ic)  F-celiti-s  foc  -Cc--
factorloo of D.E.
I.ocomoLive romponent6  ~  187.10  149.90 337.0  _            -                    -         28.00  20.00  48.00            -       60.00    56.00  116.00                   0q.10  73.00  170.5n
Slihtotal VIII                                              245.10  197.90 443.00                      23.00   '.0    470.00                    42.00  28.00  70.00                    81.00    72.00  153.00                   99.10  73. 9(  '730.0
IX.       Ocproveoet n  Rrrkcog
*ne-t-                                    -                  -          15.20    10.80   c0.00          -           .70   1.80    1'.50          -          4.0(   8.00   12.00          -        10.00     5.00    15.50
X.       T-echo,-l OeeTe1oec                      -                    -         04.0      26.00  40.00          -           -       -        1.50        -          4.00   0.00  13.00            -        5.00      7.50   12.50                   5.00    6.00   11.00
IT.       Plc tolcal Po-l' rte                      -                   -          10.       S .00  25.00         -         6.33O    I .i00    7.50        -         6.50    2.00   0.50           -         6.00     3.00      9.00)
011.       ManaRgment Information System             -                   -          30.00   55.50  85.50                                - -                  -        11.00  19.00  30.00            -        15.00   25.00   40.00                   4.00    11.50   15.50
GRA_ND TOTAL                                                          2609.25 2154.62 4763.87          -         3,.40 O1..0 1269.S0                    860.20166. 40 1726.60                   871.80 662.50 1549.30                   05.50 169.40 264.90
1/  Based on Jose 1981 prioes, foloding  Iontlngeeoiea   in ocodane-
with PR oode.  Als, the proposed 1noo=oti-e -aosfaotoring plant
has be-e  e-oloded.
2/ Civil wo-ks and handling equip=eet
S-orc: PR and Appra-isl Mission
elan 1982



-64-                      Table 9
PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Maintenance Modernization - Cost Estimate Details  1/
(Rupees Million)
Local        Foreign        Total
1.   CDLW (Rawalpindi)
a.   Plant and Machinery                   26.7          134.8         161.5
b.   Civil Works                           77.5             -          77.5
c.   Taxes and Duties                      67.4             -          67.4
Sub-Total I                         171.6           134.8        306.4
2.   Karachi Base Shed
a.   Plant and Machinery                     -             3.5           3.5
b.   Civil Works                            3.1             -            3.1
c.   Taxes and Duties                       1.8             -            1.8
Sub-Total II                          4.9             3.5          8.4
3.   Unit Exchange Components Pool
a.   Components                              -           142.0         142.0
b.   Taxes and duties                      56.9             -          56.9
Sub-Total III                        56.9           142.0        198.9
4.   Quality Control Equipment
a.   Test Equipment                         4.1            7.4          11.5
b.   Taxes and Duties                       3.7             -            3.7
Sub-Total IV                          7.8             7.4         15.2
5.   Component Transport Equipment
a.   Wagons and Containers                  3.0            5.7          8.7
b.   Racks                                  3.0             -            3.0
c.   Duties and Taxes                       2.9             -            2.9
Sub-Total V                           8.9             5.7         14.6
6.   Training and Technical Assistance
a.   Training                               2.1            2.2           4.3
b.   Technical Assistance                   1.1            2.0           3.1
Sub-Total VI                          3.2             4.2          7.4
Total 1-6                           253.3           297.6        550.8
7.   Revenue Spares
a.   Spares                                  -           318.2        318.2
b.   Taxes and Duties                     127.3             -          127.3
Sub-Total VII                       127.3          318.2         445.5
GRAND TOTAL                               380.6          615.8        996.4
1/ Not including contingencies (see Table 12)
Source: Pakistan Railways and Appraisal Mission
May 1982



-65-
Table 10
PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Unit Exchange Pool: List of Components and Cost Estimates 1/
Recommended                 Cost
Description                             Number                 Estimate
(Rupees Million)
1.   Diesel Engine                           10                       32.01
2.   Traction                                11                       10.27
3.   Traction Motor                          66                       21.85
4.   Turbo Super Charger                     76                       19.99
5.   Air Compressor and Exhauster            32                        3.64
6.   Truck less Traction Motor               18                        6.97
7.   Aux: Generator                           8                        0.47
8.   Aux  Exciter                            14                        1.42
9.   After Cooler                            13                        0.43
10.   Engineer Governor                       12                        0.37
11.   Lube Oil Pump                           18                        0.69
12.   Water Pump                              30                        1.46
13.   Radiator                                45                        5.54
14.   Lube Oil Cooler                         28                        1.59
15.   Traction Motor Blower                   37                        1.42
16.   Fuel Pump with Motor                    35                        0.41
17.   Crank Case with Motor                   13                        0.19
18.   Wheel Axle with Gear                   167                       10.59
19.   Fuel Injection Pump                    293                        1.85
20.   Fuel Injection Nozzle                  322                        0.78
21.   Eddy Clutch Gear Unit                    8                        0.84
22.   Exhaust Manifold                        29                        1.85
23.   Power Assembly Complete                354                       17.48
TOTAL                                                           142.11
Taxes and Duties                                                 56.84
GRAND TOTAL                                                     198.95
1/ Not including contingencis (see Table 12)
Source: Pakistan Railways and Appraisal Mission
May 1982



-66-                         Table 11
PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Cost Estimates for Containerization Component 1/
(Rupees Million)
Local          Foreign        Total
1.  Civil and Electrical Works
a.  Land (three-year lease)               6.93             -              6.93
b.  Structural Works                    38.38             1.20           39.58
c.  Track Work                            4.39             -              4.39
Subtotal                            49.70             1.20          50.90
2.  Equipment
a.  Fork Lift - 35 ton, I No.             0.35            5.70            6.05
b.  Yard Tractor, 3 Nos.                  0.35            1.71            2.06
c.  Chassis, 36 Nos.                      0.49            4.20            4.69
d.  Fork Lift for Shed, 10 Nos.           0.76            2.80            3.56
e.  Wagon Mover                           0.35            1.43            1.78
Subtotal                             2.30            15.84          18.14
3. Rolling Stock
a. Modify Containers
i. 60 flat wagons                   1.20              -             1.20
ii. 100 special container
flat wagons                     24.30           28.30           52.60
Subtotal                            25.50            28.30          53.80
4.  Technical Assistance                      1.20             2.30           3.50
Subtotal                             1.20             2.30           3.50
Taxes and Duties                        22.70              -            22.70
Subtotal                            22.70              -            22.70
GRAND TOTAL                            101.40            47.60         149.00
1/ Not including contingencies (see Table 12)
Source: Pakistan Railways and Appraisal Mission
May 1982



-67-
Table 12
PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Summary of Project Cost Estimates
__---- Rs Million --------           ___-------US$ Million--------------
Proposed
I.     Maintenance Improvements                        Local      Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign      Total       Credit
1.  CDLW
a.  Plant and Machinery                     26.7       134.8       161.5         2.5         12.8        15.3        12.8
b.  Civil and Electrical Works              77.5          -         77.5         7.4           -          7.4          -
c.  quality Control Equipment                4.1         7.4        11.5         0.4          0.7         1.1         0.7
d.  Component Transport Equipment            6.0         5.7        11.7         0.6          0.5         1.1         0.5
2.  Karachi Shed                                  3.1        3.5         6.6         0.3          0.3         0.6         0.3
3.  Technical Advisory and Training               3.2        4.2          7.4        0.3          0.4         0.7         0.7
4.  Unit Exchange Components                       -       142.1       142.1          -           13.5       13.5        13.5
5.  Taxes and Duties                           132.5          -        146.8        12.6           _         12.6          -
Sub Total I                                253.1       297.7       550.8        24.1         28.2        52.3        28.5
II.    Management Information System
1.  Data Network                                 5.8        12.5        18.3         0.6           1.2        1.8         1.2
2.  Hardware                                    22.0        39.6        61.6         2.1          3.7         5.8         3.7
3.  Software                                     6.9         11.3       18.2         0.6           1.1         1.7         1.1
4.  Technical Advisory                            1.2         3.4        4.4         0.1           0.3        0.4         0.4
5.  Training                                      2.1         5.3        7.4         0.2          0.5         0.7         0.7
6.  Taxes and Duties                            31.7           -        31.7          3.0           -          3.0         -
Sub Total II                                69.7        71.9       141.6         6.6          6.8        13.4         7.1
III.   Containerization
1, Container and Cargo
Handling Equipment                         2.3        15.8        18.1         0.2          1.5         1.7         1.5
2.  Civil and Electrical Works                  49.7          1.2       50.9          4.7         0.1         4.8         0.1
3.  Rolling Stock Modification (60)               1.2         -           1.2        0.1            -         0.1          -
4.  Rolling Stock Purchase (100)                24.3        28.3        52.6          2.3          2.7         5.0         2.7
5.  Technical Advisory 1/                         1.2         2.3         3.5        0.1           0.2        0.3         0.3
6.  Taxes and Duties                            22.7           -        22.7          2.2           -          2.2          -
Sub Total III                              101.4        47.6       149.0         9.6          4.5        14.1         4.6
IV.    Technical Advisory and Training
1.  Maintenance and Operations                   1.1         2.1         3.2         0.1          0.2         0.3         0.3
2.  Costing Cell                                  1.1        1.1         2.2         0.1          0.1         0.2         0.2
3.  Electrification Study                        7.4         3.2        10.6         0.7          0.3          1.0         1.0
Sub Total IV                                 9.6         6.4        16.0         0.9          0.6         1.5         1.5
V.     Contingencies
1.  Physical                                    13.2          -         13.2          1.3          -           1.3         -
2.  Price                                       20.0        57.3        77.3          1.9          5.4         7.3         3.3
Sub Total V                                 33.2        57.3        90.5         3.2          5.4         8.6         3.3
TOTAL T-V                                  467.0       480.9       947.9        44.5         45.8        90.3        45.0
VI.    Revenue Spares
1.  Spares                                        -        318.2       318.2          -          30.3        30.3          5.0
2.  Taxes and Duties                            127.3          -        127.3        12.1           -         12.1          _
Sub Total VI                               127.3       318.2       445.5        12.1         30.3        42.4         5.0
GRAND TOTAL                                     594.3       799.1    1,393.4         56.6         76.1       132.7        50.0
1/  Includes assistance to KPT for container yard information system
Source: Pakistan Railways and Appraisal Mission
May 1982



-68-
Table 13
PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                     Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                          at End of Quarter
US$ Million
1982/83
December 31, 1982                                              1.3
March 31, 1983                                                 2.3
June 30, 1983                                                  4.5
1983/84
September 30, 1983                                             8.5
December 31, 1983                                             13.0
March 31, 1984                                                19.0
June 30, 1984                                                 27.0
1984/85
September 30, 1984                                            33.5
December 31, 1984                                             40.0
March 31, 1985                                                44.0
June 30, 1985                                                 46.5
1985/86
September 30, 1985                                            48.5
December 31, 1985                                             50.0
Principal Assumption: Effective date of credit, not later
than October 1, 1982
Source: Appraisal Mission
May 1982



PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation:  Unit Exchange System, Management Information System, Technical Assistance and Training
(US$ million)
1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97
Economic Costs
Unit Exchange System
Capital Cost         23.48    39.14    15.66
Operating Cost        1.31     2.62      3.93      3.93      3.93      3.93      3.93      3.93     3.93      3.93      3.93      3.93      3.93      3.93      3.93
Management Information
System
Capital Cost         2.57      3.01      1.18
Operating Cost       0.80      0.80      0.80      0.80      0.80      0.80      0.80      0.80     0.80      0.80      0.80      0.80      0.80      0.80      0.80
Technical Assistance
and Training              0.54      0.54      0.26                                                                                                -
TOTAL COSTS               28.70    46.11    21.83        4.73     4.73      4.73      4.73      4.73      4.73      4.73      4.73      4.73     4.73      4.73      4.73
Economic Benefits
Reduction in
locomotive downtime        -        0.79      1.57     2.36      8.99      8.99      8.99      8.99      8.99      8.99     8.99      8.99      8.99      8.99      8.99
Increased fleet-wide
availability                        1.50      3.00     4.49      4.49      4.49      4.49      4.49      4.49      4.49      4.49     4.49      4.49      4.49      4.49
Reduction in number
of locomotives
awaiting spares                     1.58      3.15      4.73     4.73      4.73      4.73      4.73      4.73      4.73      4.73     4.73      4.73      4.73      4.73
Utilization of
increased tractive
effort                              3.70      7.41    11.12      4.49      4.49      4.49      4.49      4.49      4.49      4.49     4.49      4.49      4.49      4.49
TOTAL BENEFITS              -        7.57    15.13    22.70    22.70    22.70    22.70    22.70    22.70    22.70    22.70    22.70    22.70    22.70    22.70
NET ECONOMIC BENEFITS   (28.70)  (38.51)   (6.23)   17.97    17.97    17.97    17.97    17.97    17.97    17.97    17.97    17.97    17.97    17.97    17.97
The Estimated Economic Rate of Return is: 17%
Source: Pakistan Railways and Appraisal Mission
March 1982



PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation:  Container Rail Operation
1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97
TEUs handled at
Karachi Port             50,000   60,000   70,000   80,000   92,000  106,000  122,000           1/        1/        1/       1!         1/       1/        1/        1/
TEUs handled at
Lahore Dry Port           2,000    4,200    7,700   12,000   18,400   26,500   36,400   36,400   36,400   36,400   36,400   36,400   36,400   36,400   36,400
(as % of those handled
at Karachi Port)             4%        7%       11%       15%      20%       25%       30%       1/       1/        1/        1/       1/        1/        1/        1/
Economic Costs
(US$ million)
Capital Investment        6.90      3.07     0.98
Operating Costs           0.22      0.46      0.84      1.31     2.01      2.89      3.97      3.97      3.97      3.97      3.97      3.97    3.97      3.97      3.97
Total Costs               7.12      3.53      1.82      1.31     2.01      2.89      3.97      3.97      3.97      3.97      3.97      3.97    3.97      3.97      3.97
Economic Benefit$
(US$ million)              0.55      1.15      2.11     3.29      5.04      7.26      9.97      9.97      9.97      9.97      9.97     9.97    9.97       9.97      9.97
NET ECONOMIC BENEFITS
(US$ million)             (6.57)   (2.38)    0.29       1.98      3.03      4.37      6.00      6.00      6.00      6.00     6.00      6.00    6.00       6.00      6.00
The estimated Economic Rate of Return is 29%
1/ In year 1988/89, container traffic between Karachi and Lahore will
reach the maximum amount that can be carried by the proposed investment.
Source: Pakistan Railways, Karachi Port Trust and Appraisal Mission
March 1982



-71-                         Table 16
PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Revenue and Expenditure for Financial Year to June 30 for 1976/77-1980/81
(Figures in Rupees Million)
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81
Operating Revenue
Passengers                           473.6    640.7    697.8    998.0  1,090.6
Other Coaching                        69.1     80.9      82.3      95.1    104.1
Freight                            1,152.7  1,446.0  1,458.0  1,558.0  1,700.0
Sundries                              31.5     27.8      32.6      26.5      35.3
Miscellaneous                          1.6       2.3      2.9       1.2       1.7
Total Operating Revenue             1,728.5  2,197.7  2,273.6  2,678.8  2,931.7
Operating Expenses
Fuel                                 342.4    376.3    457.0    678.7    814.4
Labor                                734.7    992.9  1,048.9  1,082.2  1,230.5
Material                             342.0    246.1    329.6    454.0    462.4
Others                               117.3    133.2      93.6    268.7    270.7
Total Working Expenses              1,536.4  1,748.5  1,929.1  2,483.6  2,778.0
Appropriation to
Depreciation Reserve Fund             207.4    263.7    272.8    370.0    420.0
Total Operating Expenses            1,743.8  2,012.2  2,201.9  2,853.6  3,198.0
Net Operating Revenue (loss)          (15.3)   185.5      71.7   (174.8)  (266.3)
Interest on Loans                     143.7    154.6    175.7    305.8    135.5
Appropriation to
Improvement Fund                       25.1     35.2      39.4      54.9      60.0
Dividend Paid on
Capital-at-Charge                      34.3    154.1    171.9        -         -
Net Operating Surplus
(deficit)                      (218.4)  (158.4)  (315.3)  (535.5)  (461.8)
Operating Ratio (percent)               101        92        97      107       109
Average Receipt per
Passenger-kilometer (paisa)             3.6       4.2      4.2       5.8       6.7
Average Receipt per
Ton-kilometer (paisa)                  14.7      16.9      15.6     18.1      21.5
Source: Pakistan Railways
March 1982



PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Changes in Relationship of Revenues and Costs 1972 - 1982
Base
Year =100      Actuals                           Estimate   Forecast
Revenues             1972/73  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80   1980/81   1981/82
Passenger              100      150       203       222       317        344
Coaching               100      170       199       202       234        286
Freight                100      201       253       254       272        300
Total                  100      185       234       241       287        312
Costs
Fuel                   100      221       243       295       439        527        556
Labor                  100      220       298       315       325        356        361
Materials              100)    )274      )226      )252      )430       )521       )540
Other                  100)    )         )         )         )          )         )
Total Working
Expenses               100      235       267       295       379        439        473
Source: PR Budget Estimates for 1981-82
March 1982
P3



PAKI STAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Passenger Fares and Costs 1972 - 1981
PR II Class  PR II pass.
fare          fare @
Infla-                                         charged        1972/73
tion                                           i current    constant
Base                                           paisa/         price paisa/
1972/73                                        pass. Km       pass. Km
Fare Increases
1          2         Date             %       Note         3          4
1972/73    100.00    July 1972          20     A/C + 1st    2.50        2.50
1973/74    132.85          -                   _    only    2.50         1.88
1974/75    164.19    July 1974          20                    3.03       1.85
1975/76    178.28    March 1976         20     Not 3rd (1)  3.03         1.70
1976/77    198.38                                             3.03       1.53
1977/78    210.92    July 1977          20                    3.70       1.75
1978/79    225.14                                             3.70       1.64
1979/80    246.14    July 1979          20                    4.40)*    1.79)*
January 1980    30                     5.02)      2.04)
1980/81    264.50                                             5.10       1.93
H
(1)  Now 2nd Class                                                                                  m
H
* Based on fares introduced on July 15, 1979 and January 17, 1980
Source: EMMAY CONSULTANTS and
Report of the Experts Committee on Railways 1980
March 1982



Table 19
-74-
PAK STAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Forecasts of Revenue ard Expenditure: 1980/81 - 1985/86
(Fivures in Million Pupees)
Year Ending June 30
Actual      Estimate   Forecast      *            *******     *******     *******
1979/80     1980/81     1981/82      1982/83     1983/84      1984/85     1985/86
-'?ERATING REVENUES
PASSENGERS                                    998.0      1091.0       1100.0       1200.0       1570.0      180(.0       2200.C
.THER SOAC4ING                                 95.0        104.0       125.0        140.0       200.0        250.0        270.3D
=REIiGHT                                     1558.0      1700.0       1800.0       2750.0      2000:D.0     3400.0       3800.(
LTHER                                         28.0        37.0         30. C0       50.0         50.0        50.0         50 . 0
T-'A. OPERATING REV.;ENUES                     2979.0       2932.0      3055.0       4140.0       4820.0      5500.0       9320.0
AiMTNG EXPENSES
CE_                                          579.0       814.0'       8O.0        94G.0       1070.0      1302.0       1487.0
*ASCR                                        1082.0      1230.0       1314.0       1445.0       1590.0      1748.0       1981.0
M;ATERIAL                                     454.0       482.0        583.0        670.0        770.0       887.0       1004.-D
. . -HER                                    289.0        271.0        343.0       377.0        415.0        452.0       517.0
f_lA  xORKING EXPENSES                        2434.0      2777.0       31C0.)0      3438.0       3845.0      4393.0       489E.0
''PR-PPRIATION TO DRF                           i70.0       42.0)        440.0        470.0        541. 0      S01.0        520.(D
.7A.  OPERATING EXPENSES                     2854.0       3197.0       3540.0       3909.0      4335.0       4554.0       580D9.0
-0T CPERATING REVENUES (LOSS)                  -175.0       -265.0      --485.0       232.0        43f4.0       506.0       7.1.0
NTLRES  ON  OANS                               308.0        135.0        130.0       146.0        220.0       250.0        280D.0
^    PROpRIATI3N TO IMPROV'EM-NT FUND            80.1         65.7         87.4        73.7         97.4        112.8       135.5
;'.'ID-NDO
VET OPERATING SURPLUS (LOSS)                   -541.1      -465.7       -682.4         12.3        115.6        133.3       295.1
nSSEENGER K'15 (MIL-ION)                                  16310.0      18800.0      17200.0    177-0.0       18200.0    18700.0
E'.ENL- EAR'(ING TON KM (MILLION)           7600.0       7800.0      7500.0       7800.0       8000.0       8100.0      8250.0
'EVENUE PER PASSENGER KM (PAISA)                               9.7          8.7         8.8          8.4          9.8         n1.8
-_;'E!E PER FREIGH7 73N KM (PAISA)                            21.5        24.0         34.8         38.0         42.0        46.0
:=DRATZN2 RAT'O                                 109.5       .08.0        11-5.9        34.4        S81.0        50.8         86.8
~ourcs: Pakistan Railways & mission
May 1982



-75-
Table 20
PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Forecasts of Source and Application of Funds.: 1980/31 - 1984/85
(Figures in Million Rupees)
Year Ending June 30
T otal                   I otal
1980/81    1981/82      1?82/83    1983/84      1981/84      1984/85     1981/85
SOURCE OF FUNDS
N--T OPERATING REVENUE (LOSS)                       -265.0      -485.0        232.0       434.0        181.0       505.0       687.0
APPROPRIATION TO DRF                                 420.0       440.0        470.0       541.0       1451.0       601.0       2052.o
A5PROPRIATION TO IMPROVEMENT FUND                     65.7        67.4        -73.7        97.4        238.5        112.8       351.3
DRAWN FROM RESERVES                                   21.0
RAILWAYS CASH GENERATIDN                             241.7        22.4        775.7      1072.4       1870.5      1219.e       3090.3
FOREIGN EXCHANGE GOVERNMENT
FOR ADDITIONS                                       30.0       271.0        214.C       223.0        714.0                   714.C
FOR REPLACEMENTS                                   170.0       234.0        464.0       441.0       1139.0       228.0       1337.0
LOCAL CURRENCY GOVERNMENT
FOR ADDITIONS                                      382.0       433.0        333.0       463.0       1228.0       504.0       1733.0
FOR REPLACEMENTS                                   174.0       328.0        489.0       5S8.0       1385.0                   1385.0
GRANT IN AID FOR OPERATIONS                        188.0       552.0                                 552.0                    552.0
lOTAL SOURCES                                       1205.7      1840.4       2275.7      2773.4       6888.5      1151.8       8841.3
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
D:BT SERVICE                                         231.0       221.0        308.0       386.0        8Z6.0       420.0       1346.0
INVESTMENT ON ADDITIONS                              457.0       705.0        547.0       691.0       1943.0       700.0     2ZE43.0
INVESTMENT ON 9EPLACEMENTS                           331.0       562.0        953.0      1042.0      2557.0        228.0      2785.0
EXPENDITURE ON IMPROVEMENTS                           36.0        53.0         60.0        80.0        193.0        100.0       293.0
AVAILABLE FOR/PAST LIABILITIES/DIVIDEND             -466.0      -G62.0         12.0        117.0      -553.0       133.0       -42J.0
-CTAL APPLICATIONS                                   589.0       859.0       1881.0      2326.0       5066.0      1581.0       6847.0
CHANGES 1N WORKING CAPITAL/8ALANCES                  316.7       981.4        384.7       447.4       1823.5       370.8       Z194.3
TOTAL                                          1205.7       1840.4      2275.7       2773.4      E889.5       1951.8      8841.3
Note: The investment on additions in 1984/85 includes the sum of 264 million Rupees included in the Medium-Term Development Plan
for 1981-1984 which the mission estimates will be spent after June 1984.
Source:Pakistan Railway Mission
May 1982



-76-                                                                             Chart 1
PAKISTAN
PAKISTAN RAILWAYS ORGANIZATION
S   FEDERAL MINISTER OF RAILWAYS
DNSECTOR OF RA                     SECRETARY, MINISTER OF RATLFAYS
CHAIRMAN,. RAILWAY ..AR.
MEMBERA NNINMEG1ER AND                        PROCUREMEN                 MANAGER                     IF O F
FINANCE                   |    ENGINPERINGRSS                                          TRA FFICPDTR
CHIEF                         CH EF                                                         D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 VISIOIN  |     D    I SIDN
ACCOUNTS PERSONNEL SUP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ER NTENDENT    - t                                                   UPRIN TEINDENT]
CRIESERS                                    OFFICER   CFULTAN OUETA
CHSV ACF F NR R IC DR  AV P                 C    DIVIS ON
ADMINISTRATIO'N                                                SUERINTENDE]NT_     SUEll NTENDENlT
AND CUDGET STORS  AN   EAWALPINDF
PRJEC EDGIREER              CHIEFCHIEF OPERATINR                                                                   ESUPERINTNENT
OPEN L NES                         ESUPERINTENDENT
KARACH       ROTRI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TMOHLPR
|   CH EFGENAL ANEER  L  CHIEIEF   FICEMMERCIAL
|TELECOMMUNICATIONS E| C3 EGNEER                 j      HATOFIE                 |       MNAGER
CH,                            7]~~~REEAC
R FINANCE AS  RDIRECTOR E   O                             CHISR  TRAANIC    L E OF FIFICEE
SSGSARY  1982                                                                                                           P~~~PROGESSIG  2E- DREPOR
|  SURVEY ANG  ER    __ CIFCNRLE                       ORGANIZATION       L_      PROJECT DIRECTOR
| ONSTRUCTION                    STRSAND METHODS                                     SOFRERAIL
rPROJECT DIRECTOR1   __  CIF ,CONHTAROL LE R|
|    IPRI         r            UCAE
|PIROJECT DIRECTOR] __t RDEC DRETO
|   ARACH          r             KOR
'VEMBER FINANCE ALSO REPORTSTO SECRETARY. MINISTRYOF FINANCE
;'FBRUTARY 1982                                                                                                                                                    1od-ak -23804



PAKISTAN
PAKISTAN RAILWAYS ORGANIZATION
Federal Minister of Railways
Secretary, Ministry of Railways
Chairman, Rail]way Board
Member Railway Board           ~         Member-Railway Board                          SceayRiwyBrdIn-C'harge
Member Railway Board                     Member Railway Board                            Federal Government
Traffic              l    |        Civil Engineering                            Inspector of Railways
General Manager Railways
Railway Staff
rT
May 1982                                                                                                                            WORLD BANK 23804



PAKISTAN: ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
EXPANSION OF DRY PORT AT
MOGHALPURA LAHORE
(KEY PLAN)
S. NO DESCRIPTION                 EXISIING                   XPANSION
NO. 2
1.  TOTAL AREA OF LAND         812535 SRES 435 ASEST;   103000 SFT;
18.65 ACRES  10.345 ACRES  2.364 ACRES
/  2.   AREA COvERED           41800 SFT,   60000 S F1
ii. OPENi14000 SFT
3.  TRACK'S LENGTH               5000 LFT;    2800 LET.
lEOWAGONS  1lOOWAGONS
4    AREA OF OFF ICES           24500 LFT,    800 SFT,
PLATFORMS
5.     HIGH  E VE L             2000 LET;      400 LET,
ii. HAIL LEVE                5O LET;
DDgITIONAL    <           \                                <   \                   6   ROADS                         6000 LFT,     240 LFT;
/v </    > A R E AX         \                                 <                   7   FIRE I IGHTING WITH           13 NO
>                                                              7.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ HYDRANTS 3-  3800 LET;    2000 LET;
T0UNDABY   W A L>//@/  <  \   AND TCSTOLONYE  8   OPEN AREA FOR STACKING  576300 SFT   330900 SFT,   103000 SFI;
W/bHO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
// w ,     X     / < \ re ~~~OF TRACK                 / H
DliARAMPURA YARD    //         //          /
///////<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z 7= =                                    7 =2. ~-C//
%///-   t                                                      E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O AD 30' VVIDOF  OLFIC F`T N-- C- N D A\  V- 
---      X EIS TI ING D RY PO RT                                  CULTIVATED LAND
t .2. WORK TO BE DISMANTLED
3. PROPOSED WORK                                                                                                                                                                World B-lk  23563



Chart 3
-79-
PAKISTAN  ELEVENTH RAILWAY  PROJECT
pROPOSED LA-YOUJT OF RFMANUFACTURING SHOPS
IN CENTRAL DIESEL WOCRKSHOPS RAWALPINDI
MAIN OrFICE BUILOING
CY I- SMAIN soE)                                                                                     FACTURING  
LER ANO AIR CMPREsSSO  US                    SPAE E PAR S_|,
-f    w tl  MILLL RIGHT             C,2n{CRANK SHAFT   rI,CRM
CYCLE STAND ~   ~        MAHIE 
EEHCETAVORFF ICLE                                                                                                    _       p _ ,NoMA nh  ,  fMLCTHIgNGE
TRUCK
TRLCKAll9t                                                     CAR REPAIrN SFIOP  SUPPORTIhItG FACILITTES 
REPAIRLT__
SHOP                                                                       ---
PIFRE ENGINE AND_
TRUCK  OS
ELECTRIC
SIJESTA&LrT FACILI IESf
t I t I I , . _ i I I _ I R~~~~~~~~~~~UN NJNG ROOM fi7
ENGINE rco.7T       EAIC       INTI C_
tJ I     l   a C 3          ANC COMPONENT             .J I
| flRE PIGHTING RfRPAIR8SH                   P=  ip
rAl AK AND) PUMP HOUiSE                                              LON _  , _=
______OILET____________________      _                                                    Wo.la 5an' - 235C2



-80-
Chart 4
PAKISTAN
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1982            |             1983                          1984                          1985
J F MIAIMIJ IJ A S 0 VD JIFIMIAMIJ |JAIS|O  N|DJ F|M|A|M  J|J|A Slo  NI   J FM A|M|J J|A|S|O|N|D
AppraisalIS1OO
Report Preparation
Effectienes
Bo0aercdiPresenntation                                      p                           
a. Maintenance Improvements                     il                                           
i  Central Diesel and Other Shops
Specifications -nd Tender Documents
Consltaon with Bank
Tendering
Contrast Awards
Dnli-ey                                                                                                             4
Construction and I nstaation
ii  Unit Ehcha-ge Components
Specification ond Tender Documerts
Consultation w th Bank
Contract Awaros
Delicery                                                                                                             t
iii.  Reoenue Spares
Specifications and Tender Documents 
Con.ltation w th Bank
Contrat Aw,ards
b. Management Information System
Data I Neatwork
Specification and Tender D---mnt          q                              l         r          
Contract Awards
cC nstain Oriaioni,                                                                                          
i, Facilities Lahore Dry PortIi j|                                                                                         i                                Ii
Speecifictions and Tender Do et
Contract Awards
Fabrication and C-nt-utonv-  
ii.  Equipma  -a d Rolle g Stock
Specfications and Tender Documents
Tendering |*__      
Contract-Awards
d. Te~i"ctal AOitn      d Staff Tr a imin g
Spiii   lectificatio  StudTen  om s
So.-,eq B         ank StRff
May   1982                                                                                                                                          World B-k 23803



IBRD 16207R
-7n;                                            643 oso  U 5 5 R   701 - N4r                                                                                                               73o                               APRIL 1982
S.l RE 0Us,. ...
RA. 9                  s AFGHAUI TA t                              DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC OF                                            t                          >                                   C H C     N
NSuFX  No tfT'3AFGHANISTAN                                                                      . ,                                                   d               H I AB
SOA HDI A RAB IA      _           /    INDI4\                                                                                                     
20"   ARAB  EMIRAT. ..                     1
P1AKISTAN                                                                                                            ,3 r
PA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ KO5 Ioi Sk TAG                                                                                                        Af. tOroo,-     {-   \s ,nm,etoe LleOf Control
ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT  -   J                                                                                             /  -
*      LAHORE IDR PORT                                                                                   , S-
RAWALPIND DIESEL LOCOMOTIVE
WORKSHOP  IlLC W)
>1        1 BROAD GfUOF, DOOjRLE TRACK                                                                                       00.20'              00100
-I-I-I~ I IBROAD ,0AUGE SINGLE TRACK                                                                    ii
-32                           I-'.------ . 1 METER   GAUGE                                                  .                 /       / \   00.0V1,  0    AO A   1o
OTHER GAUGE                                                                               KEO.N                                                                                          320
I:E- :--E-HS ELECTR  FIED  SECEION                                                                                      010d 01 >       S                                                      /
.01%              6   NATIONAL CAP TAL
)              0 o    CITIES, TOWNS, AND  RAILWAY STATIONS
j0~           -      -     DNTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-28-~' T/, > /I N D I A 2
280
I R A  N    it                                                         hte                       b         y 
0         50        MB     1 lEO        200       250
010000;    {'N0 D s2                                                                                 5     3O0          40D 500
T.                                           KA )NO)i                                       .,                                   ARACHI  AREA
ft.                                           '               ,0>>-                                                                                                2'.
24.              A  R  A  8/A   N             S E A                                                                                          2470  ~-                        ($./ . o  .      
4.  n>Ih..s{~ sA    10.0.A-.                              #                    \   'e >.. I
_  _   E4                                          9i   I~ba<s ;nyoWas'OsUhle?als sSSO/avVe?rltowadnkenwamen/ol   AA 9,AN  tA    \   i       C        X   u    ,,   >,_ 72  



