.M        * 7   1/b.2  - &
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Pi,,por t No. :11 147- Ct-hA   Type: (SAfR)
- I t I-   AGRICULTURfAL SUPPf10  Sf-RVIE t-'j I             Report No. 11147C&
Aiuthor: LI. 12 U-"'lCARATNAM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHNA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
JANUARY 22, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restdded distibution and may be used by recipiens ony in the perfonranc of
tbeir official duties. Its contents may not otewise be disclosed whout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of June 1992)
Currency Unit  Yuan (Y)
$1.00 = Y 5.45
Y 1.00 = $0.183
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (ICm) = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha) = 15 mu
1 ton (t) = 1,000 kg
= 2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.2 pounds
- 2jin
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ATEC       Agrotechnical Extension Center
BAU        Beijing Agricultural University
CAAS       Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
CABTS    China Agricultural Broadcasting and Television School
CAS        Chinese Academy of Sciences
CATEC    County Agro-Technical Extension Center
CNCQSTF China National Center for Quality Supervision and Test of Feed
CNBTS    China National Bureau for Technical Supervision
CNSC       China National Seed Corporation
DAH        Department of Animal Husbandry
DEER       Department of External Economic Relations
DOA        Department of Agriculture
LAE        Institute of Agricultural Economics (CAAS)
ICAMA    Institute for Control of Agrochemicals
1PM       Integrated Pest Management
IRRI       International Rice Research Institute
MATEC    Municipal Agro-Technical Extension Center
NAHVSC  National Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Service Center
NAPQS    National Animal and Plant Quarantine Service
NATEC    Nat: >nal Agro-Technical Extension Center
NBIC       National Breed Improvement Center
NCIVBP   National Control Institute of Veterinary Bioproducts and Pharmaceuticals
NQCCVBP National Quality Control Center for Veterinary Bioproducts and Pharmaceuticals
NSTS       National Seed Testing Station
PATEC    Provincial Agro-Technical Extension Center
PMO        Project Management Office
SMS        Subject Matter Specialist
SPF        Specific Pathogen Free
STPAC    Soil Testing and Plant Analysis Center
TAC        Technical Advisory Committee
TATES    Township Agrotechnical Extension Station



FOR OMCL4 USE ONLY
CHINA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
CREDrr AN! PROJECT SUMDARY
Borrower:          People's Republic of China
Benefciaries:      Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), and Provinces/Municipalities of Beijing,
GuangxP, Hebei, Heilon0iang, Henan, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jilin, Liaoning,
Shaaxi, Shahi, and Sichuan
A    _ounU         SDR 83.7 million ($115 million equivalent)
Ternm:             Standard, with 35 years matrity
Objectives and
Description:       The project would assist the Government in increasing agricultural
production and farmers' incomes by strengthening insttutions that
provide support services to farmers. The project would: (i) strengthen
aiculture, aimal husbandry and animal and plant quarantine
management capability thugh improved information, computer
networking and monitorng and evaluation systems; (ii) reorganize crop
and livestock extension systems from national to county level; Ciii)
Improve extion services by providing acilities, upgrading skills of
tecnical staff and improvint deir recommeodations throu farm-level
demod-iven research programs; (lv) reorne seed centers to
separate their production from certfication and reguladon roles and
promote seed      lization; (v) strengthen veterinary and preventive
animal health services, establish a well-coordinated national breed
improvement program, and tighten pharmaceutical, agrochemical and
feed quality control; and (vI) promote cost recovery for services provided
to farmers. The project would also strengthen project management at all
levels by providing facilities, traing and technical assistance.
Beneits and
Risks:             At the national level, the project would benefit a sizeable proportion of
the country's 200 million farmers through improved policy formulation
and stronger national agricultural instiuons. At the provincial and
lower levels, approximatly 5.6 million farm households would directly
benefit from the project through: strnger extension centers with trained
staff who are equipped with fcies and able to respond to farmers'
demand; armer assains which would provide fatmers with direct
participaion; inputs and markes; and commercialized services which
would provide quality  mpive   services in the areas of input supply,
seeds and animal health. At full development, the adoptees would double
or triple their incomes. Ihe project ERRs range from 24 percent to
63 percent depending on the technology adoption scenarios. The project
would also alleviate poverty in eight of China's poorest counties and
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offilcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



- ii -
create substantW demand for labor in farming, hliog, distibuting and
procing the incremental output of the project, including more job
opportntes fDr women. The project fa  no unusual tecical risk.
Organizional risks would be minimized tirough intensive trinig and
strengthened project management.   Changes in organizational,
management, and regulatory approaches are expected to serve as models
for national replication and may provide the most Important long-term
benefits of the project.
Estimated Costs:
LQcal   Foreign   iTotl
-      -   - ($ million)
Cropslextension                    39.8     43.5      83.3
Seeds                              12.1     12.0      24.1
Livestock                          36.7     38.1      74.8
Quality control                     3.3      3.6       6.9
Quarantine                          4.0      6.0      10.0
Base cost                       95.      103.2    199.1
Physical contingencies              7.8      8.4      16.2
Ptice contingencies                12.0     11.0      23.0
Total roectt La                I1.      I22      238.
Reserved procurement                4.3     13.2      17.5
glal (excluding reseved
procurement)                 J1.4    109.4    220.8
Fbmdtng Plan:
Central, provincial, pre-
fecture & county govts.          110.1     13.2    123.3
IDA                                 5.6    109.4    115.0
Fadin4d Disbursemet:
I1DA IY             1     I995 199       1997   12    1992   20    2001
($ million)
Annual             15.0   20.0   22.0   25.0   16.0   12.0    4.0    1.0
Cumulative         15.0   35.0   57.0   82.0   98-  110.0  114.0  115.0
Economic Rate of Return: 24-63 percent
/A Project is exempt from taxes and duties.



-I II
CONTENTS
1     Badguo                                           udd ........................................  1
A.  Inftrodction  ......1
A. ha&Xon............................................1
B.   The AgiculuaSeto  .......Sector......................                        1
C.   Jhe Livestock Subsector .............................                        2
D.  AgriuludSupportrSe es i Chia   ...................lS porsl.                   3
E.   Sec   lObjecives and Bank G            rooupLdltg................            8
F.   Project Formulation and Rana e    ........................                   9
.2      I1,eProjeAr    ...................................                               11
A.   Gme"M   .......................................1
B.                                         ..............                        11
B.        on.          ...........o ci....o..                                    11
C.  Support S      ices    .      ................................               12
D.  Desip   Considerations               ..............................          15
3       heI .rojec        ........................................                      17
A.  G3eral              .......................................                  17
B.  Projec Descion ................................                              17
C.  DetailedlFeatUre  ........ .........                                         19
D.  S"tasofPreparain                                 ....... <33
D.   Stmsof Plme oaS^do .......................................                 33
E.  ptSchedule                                 ......   33
F.   CostEstimates .............................. . . . ..                      33
0.  Fimacing  .       ......................................                    35
H.  Prouement  ...             ................................                 35
.            m...................................                               37
1.  Accounts and Audits...................    37
K.  E m enta          pac  .......        .......................               38
hi rport i based on an FAOICP preparation repo  (July 1991) and the findin   of a
preappraisd mission in October/November 1991, ed by W.P. Ting Crask Manger IDA) and
comprising Ms. R. Jaisaud, Mess. A.C. Brandenburg, R. Vick, L  de Alwis, 0. Smith
(FAO/CP), C.W. Chen, T. Sitwff, and B. Swaon (Consultants); and an appra mssion in
Jue 12, comprising many of the same staff and Ms. R. Jaaard, Messrs. A.C.Brndebug,
C. Mguire, W.P. TiS (IDA), P. L@avy, and S.N.H. Putt (Constans). Peer reviewer were
Messrs. C. de Haan, A. Pitd rd, LP. Srlatava (AGRPS), nd R. McGoh  (ASTPH). The
Diiso  Chief s Mr. J. Goldberg and the D      meDector is Mr. Shahd Javed Bur.



-lv-
4     PRo3e Oje   anzon and  _a.a.m.e          . .  . .... ....   .     .      39
A.  PRojectOqrnkzat   ..... ....... ..... .............                  39
B.  Financial M      i"aemn      ..............................          40
C.  Spevison, Monioing, Evaluation and Rqoting ............              40
5     ProduCdonandMarlkeb  . ............................. .                   42
A. Prduction ........                                                    42
B.  Ivarkets .......................................                     46
C. Prices ......                                                         46
6     Benfts, JustWtaton andRisks .........................48
A.  Benefits and Justfication    ........................... .           48
B.  Employmnn and Incomes .......         .....................          49
C.  Women in  velopmet ...............................                   49
D.  CostRecovery ...................................                     SO
E.  ImpactonGovemment Budget..........................                   50
F. Financial and EconomicAnalyss                . . .                    51
G.  Riss .........................................                       52
7     Agreemenit Readied and                   ...................             53
1.    Basic Data on Project Provic   ..................e....5.....             S
2. CostEstlmates                           . . ..71
PoSject Cost Summnar y....                                          71
Summary Accunts Cost Summary.....                                   72
cost Suinniary by onmponet........                                  74
Project Coniponnt byYea  ..........................                 75
Estmated SchecedeofDisbr.s.. ..t...                    .    .       91
3.    Traizg and T'eical Assistac  .        . ...                      .       92
4.    Reeach,Educato Extension,FamerLinkages ............           ....      112
5.    Farmer Assodaos and ViW Economic
Cooperatives        .......................................             116
6.    Management Infinrmaton System .    .      ........................      121
7.    Key Monitoring ndicars .................................                126
8.    SupervsionPlan .        ....................................            137
9.    Commecaized Agricultu  Servis .        .     ......................     141
10.   Term  of Reference ...................................                  144
11.  Econonic Analyss . ....................  .........                       180
12.  Selected Douments and Data Available in the Project
Fi'e  .............................................                     186



-V.
TAlS IN lkT
3.1   ProjectCostSunimy  ..       ...............................           34
3.2   Procutmea Pmflmoe ...      ................................           35
5.1   Extihstn and Potid Crop Yieds (TIRA) Usg Existing
bpwoved or New Technologies ...... ......................             43
5.2  inremta PPoductuand AdoptlnRates ...................*.                 44
5.3   ImentalLivestock ProductLon .       . .........................       45
1.   Existg Organi nl StUcWe of the Mnitry of Agricula...e.1.
2.   Organaion  r Project M.lon                                            189
3.                Stuct  of the National, Provincial, MuncipalI/
Prfecturd, County and Towfsip Agoenical Extension Centers
and Prposet Reorgnized Structure, DIepartmet of Animal
Husbandry, 9vlinstry of Agricultur.........................    191
4.    mplemadule .........                  .......................        197
5.               Schedule        ..................                          1
IBRD Nos. 23859R, 23909R, 23910R Location of Pojeat Components



1
BACKGROUND
A.   OMUCIION
1.1          The Governmen of China, recognizing Xt weaknee in present crop and
lwestock support services to faumers are constraining producdon of priot foodgrains and other
commodities, has requested IIDA stance In fancing a national Agricultal Support Services
Project (ASSP) to reinforce these services. Such a project, covering adaptive research,
extension, seed supply, livestock, quarante, quality control of inputs and managemen servces,
would broaden the scope of IDA's asisne  to Chinas agriulture sector. It would provide
continuity to, and reifrce the activities supported under the pvious D)Aspported Seeds and
Second Agricutural Research Projects. The Project was identified in AugdstSqptmber 1990
and prepared in AprilVMay 1991 by the Minstry of Agriculture (MOA) with assistance from
FAO/CP. An IIDA and PAOICP mission preappraised the project in October/November 1991.
A technical review mission took place in March 1992 and the project was appraised in June
1992.
D. TM AGMCULTBAL SECTOR
1.2          Agriculture in China-including erops, livestock, forestry and isheries-provides
susteance for about 1.2 billou people; it is an important soure of uncome for some 200 million
farm families and accounts for about 30 pent of the country's GDP. Only about 137 million
ha of Chinas land area of 960 million ha are arable. Farming systms are therefre intensive,
with heavy inputs of labor, fertizer, smalt mahinery and watr. Nearly half of the crWed
area is irrligated. Foodgains occupy about 70 percent of total croplad and account for about
one third of the value of agricultural output. Intensive farming has enabled China to meet the
basic food requirements of its population, about 22 percent of the wodd's total, and from less
than 11 percent of the world's arable land to produce an inrasigy sophisticated mix of cash
and commercial crops.
1.3          China's decade-long rural reform program has revitized the agricultural sector
and provided impressive growth and structural chge through the introduction of the production
responsibility system, increased producer prices and an enlarged role for market forces. The
gross value of agricutural output (GVAO) increased by 83 percent in red terms dun the
1978-90 period (6 peret per annmu), susanly faster tham during the previous 25-yea
period (3 percent per annm). While significant growth in gri production was achieved in the
early part of the period (peaing at 407 million tons in 1984), sta_ grain production has
been the Government's central concern in reet years with production ranging between 379 and
402 million tos during the 198548 period as farms sbsdtited other crops for grain. Recent
major efforts have been made to increae grain poduction and recenty production appears to



4-
have risen to a new plateau, with 446 million tons In 1990 and 435 million tons in 1991. The
Government's strateg to increase grain poduton includes diverse mesures, such as increasing
state mvestent in agriculture, mainly in irrigaon rebabilitation and xanion, and introducing
partial reforms in grain procurement, disbution, prices and subsidies. These refoms have
recedy included the general fixing of provinc  grain procurement quotas at substily
reduced levels, with ever-iucreasing production icmen  priced at mariet-based negoated
prices; already announced increased wheat quota procurement prices for 1992, so that wheat and
corn farmgate prices now approach world levels; the conversion of most official ihprovincial
grain shipments from quota to negotated prices; and in 1991 and 1992, the first substantial
increases (from 132 percent to 160 percent) in urban ration grain and edible oil prices in 30
years. Recent years have also seen the establishment of fledgling grain commodity exchanges
for all major grains in various Chinese cities (e.g., Zhengzhou, Changchun, Wuhan, Harbin, and
Changsha). In the conte  of preparing a proposed Grain Distrution and Marketing Project,
IDA is discussing with the GOC a fiture reform program involving the further substantal
elimination of grain consumption subsidies, the opening of the intea grain trade to aU
interested units and individuals, the thorough commercialization of grain wholesaling and
retailing entaepis, establishment of a futures market in grain, and eventual market-determined
pricing of viruly all grain in China.
C. TIt JIVEn'OX SUBSECTOR
1.4          The livestock subsector in China has grown rapidly since the reforms of 1978
and its share of agricultura GNP has increased from 14 percent in 1980 to 26 percent in 1990.
At the end of 1991, the livestock populaton Included 370 million pigs, 206 million sheep and
goats, 132 million cattle and large animals and 2.672 bilion poultry. China is the world's
largest pig producer with 42 percent of the world's pigs, but raises only 4 percent of the cattle,
8 percent of the sheep, and 16 percent of the chickens. In 1991, meat production was 28.6
milion tons, egg production was 7.9 million tors and mUk production stood at 5.2 million tons,
all enormous advances over 1978 but sill low on a per capita basis by world standads.
1.5          China's livestock feed resources include both grazing lands (55 percent) and crop
lands (45 percent). Present husbandry maagement systems tend to minimize the feeding of
grain, except for intensively raised poultry and lean pis, and emphasize the use of milled crop
and grain by-products, other processing by-products, cut frage produced on unused or margnal
lands, and forage from grazing on nau  grasslands. China's animal feed industry, even though
it is only 15 years old, has become the third largest in the world with an annual output of 31
million tons.
1.6          Future sustnable increases in livestock production would inceasinly bave to
depend on higher production efficiency, which would include the feeding of higher levels of
grain to nonrmin, pasture improvement and forage production for ruminans, and the
utilization of livestock with superior genetic traits derived from indigenous and imported gene
pools. The technical feasibility of such increases would depend on the: (a) availability of feed
grains, forage and protein supplements; (b) improved and greater accessibility of animal
husbandry and feed formulation technology transfer through applied research and extension; and
(c) sustainable farmer incentives. To this end, increased bottom-up planning involving the farm
population and increased cost recovery of expsive government support service programs would
have to be introduced into the system.



-3 -
D. AGRIWLTL SAORtT SERVICES IN C }A
1.7          Agricultal A     itratn. Lead refsp ilitor agricultral development
at the natio level lies with the Minlty of Agriculture (MOA). It i divided into a lage
number of dpmrnentslbueaus rep n     agriculture (DOA), animal husbandry (DMH),
aquatc products and other mportantareas of actvity (Chart 1). MOA s also in carge of the
Chinese Academy of Agriultural Sciences (CAAS), the Central Agricultural Broadctng and
Televiion School (CABTS) and other bureas providig administrive, financl, plamnig and
Inforation services. The departments and "general stations" into which they are subdivided
provide recommendations on policy, regulaton and national programs and adminster centrally
financed progrms ad projects.  Thney are also responsible for monitoring agricultu
producton activities and providing informaton services at the mtional level.
1.8          China's provinci  administrati-  we generally structured like their national
counterparts. Programs are implemented through provincial departmens and companies
conrsponding to similar stitions at the national level. Prvinces are divided into prefectures
and municipalities and further subdivided into counties, township and viUages. There are, on
average, 14 prefectu/municipalties per province, 5 counies per prefcture/municipality and
about 20 townships per ounty and 16 villages per toWnship. County and lower level
auninistrations are generally structured simlarly to the national and provincial ones. Direct
ricultura services are provided to farmers by township and viUlage level orgaizations.
1.9          Pinancial autonomy is encouraged, and to some ex  enforced, at every level
of government. This induces local governent to involve themselves in commercal enterprises
that generate revenue and to neglect services such as research and extension. Loans for
eternay funded development projects have to be repaid by the local governments themselves,
makig them reluctant to borrow for nonrevenue-earning, service type projects.
1.10         AgrIeultural Eteuen.  Extension is provided through a system  of
Agrotecnical Extesion Centers (ATECs) which operate at the National (NATEC), Provincial
(PATEC), Municipal/Prefectrl (MATE), County (CATEC) and Township (TATES) levels.
At each level, the ATEC reports to the conespondn Deparmen or Bureau of Agriculture and
is expected to maintain technical likages with the ATECs at the levels mediaty above and
below it.
1.11         At the national level, the NATEC is responsible for formulating national
agriculurl exesion policy guidelines and for overall planning, coordinating, monioring and
evaluaig China's etension programs. However, at the national level, as well as at the
provincial and prefural levels, these system uni remain largely undeveloped and the staff
undertilized. Furthermore, these levels of the ATEC sysem lack a cleary defined mision that
is  pveof ensmion field operaions at the county and townip level, and these uniDt have
few resources other than their technical staff. At the county level, CATECs attempt to con4uct
adate research, but the subject mat  speciists (SMSs) lack adeque training and
equipment. Also, they are exected to tr  and backstop the TATES exesion staff. At present
1,200 of the 2,200 counties in China hve esablished CATECs, with an average of 18-20
technical staff. At the vilage level, about 500,000 full- or part-time Farmer Tedhnicians (FTs),
who receive specialized training and support from the TATES extension staff, provide the direct
link to farmers. Ther is, on average, about one FT per vilage, coverng an average of 9
demonstation households and about 420 fm households each.



-4-
1.12         The basic etension stategy now being pursued by China is a combination of
farmer training and diss ation of new technologies using a vaiety of low co  tecmiques.
Most farmer tainig, including training of FTs, occurs at ne township level. Short courses are
usually held prior to eah cropping seson. CATEC technial staff fiequenty hold special
seminars for PTs and demonstration famers, usually In TATES facilities. The FTs, In tur
make direct visits to regular and demonstration farmers ard participate in group meetings.
Prited materials containg cuent technical recommendions are sometims duplicated by
TATES staff at the township government office or by fie CATEC, however, duplicatng
equipment is generally iimited to silk scrmeing one page handouts, 'one copy at a time".
Printed materials are dissominated at training sessions, and through FTs and demonstation
farmers. TATES staff also use the public village loudspeak system on a weekly basis to
communicate agricultural recommendations to farmers, and to anounce field days and training
courses. Since 1979, a system of contract extension has been intrduced in some provinces.
The TATES or other ATEC draws up a contract to provide technical services and inputs to a
farm -r or group of farmers and are compensated by the farmers with, typically, 20 percent of
the value of the crop above the agreed target. If harvest fits below the agreed target as the
result of poor gecbnical recommendations or nonsupply of timely inputs, the pay or bonuses of
the TATES workers may be docked up to 80 percent of the shortfall. This approach has worked
well in some high crop-intensity areas where input supplies are sufficient.
1.13         During the preproduction responsibility system era, the extension system
functioned relatively well in terms of top-down technology transfer, whereby recommendations
were passed down to the communes who simply went ahead and implemented them. With the
shift to the production responsibility system (PRS), the number of end users to be reached
increased many fold and the production practices and new technologies, which the extension staff
must disseminate, are becoming more sophisticated and location specific. In this context, the
extension system has become inadequate, because it curreatly lacks sufficient adaptive research
capacity to develop location specific technology and messages. Also, this new context demands
improvement in the technical and farm management knowledge of extension personnel and in
their ability to teach and communicate effectively with farmers. Also, it needs more effective
institudonal linkages to ensure the continmous and rapid flow of new technology from research
to farmers, on the one hand, and the identfication and relaying of farmen' problems to research
and administrative authorities on the other.
1.14         Agriculturl Research. Agricultu  research in China is carried out by some
90 research insions at the national and provincial levels. The Chinese Academy of Sciences
(CAS), China's premier research institution, has about 122 research insties, some of which
are involved in agricultural research. The Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS),
functioning under the Bureau of Science and Technology of MOA, has lead responsibility at the
national level for agricultural research, planming and graduate training. The CAAS has about
10,600 staff (of whom 48 percent are researchers, 8 percent are anistrators, and 44 percent
are support staff) manning 29 research institutes, 3 research centers, 3 research laboratories and
a graduate school. Twenty of these research instittes are located in major production centers
across the country, the ceWal service facilities being located in Beijing. Ihe institutes undertake
key research projects in crop breeding, plant physiology, plant protection, plant genetic
resources, biotechnology, soils and fertilizer, agrictura meteorology, animal husbandry and
veteinary science.



--
1.15         At the provincial level, the Provincial Academies of Agricultural Sciences
(PAAS) and their affiliated research  stitu, under the provincial dpalments of agriculture,
fbcus on solving broad based production problems in the province. Also, the PAAS participate
in national research projects, but most lack the capacity to carry out a comprehensive program
of adaptive research for all mnor agmecological zones in the province; that responsibility must
be assumed by the CATECs. Nationwide, there are about 1,120 research institutes at the
prefecura level and above, with a staff of over 95,000 enged In agricultural research.
Provincial pro,ects are funded by the province and national and regional projects by the central
government. However, much of that research capacity, especially at the provincial and
prefeural level, remais underutilized due to lack of operational funds.
1.16         Agricultural Credit. Agricultural credit is provided by the Agricultural Bank
of China (ABC), which had total loans of Y 69.9 billion in 1991, through a nationwide network
of branches. Some 59,000 Rural Credit Cooperatives (RCCs), at the township level, also
provide agricultural credit and had total loans of Y 80.1 billion in 1991. However, both ABC
and RCC lend primarily to finance commercial and village industria activities rather than
agriculture. Less than 20 percent of their portfolios is composed of loans to farmers, with the
bulk of farmer lending going into short-term loans of less than one year for crop and livestock
production. Some medium-term lendig is also provided to farmers for agricultural equipment,
draft animals, farm trucks and services such as sinking wells, but credit rationing limits famers'
ability to Invest in such assets.
1.17         Input Supply. Input supply Is largely handled by the Agricultural Inputs
Corporation under the Ministry of Commerce (MOC). Local supplies of fertilizer, pesticides,
plastic film and tools are issued through Supply and Marketing Cooperatives, which operate
64,000 shops at the townip level and 110,000 additional ones at the village level. Fertlizer
distrbution, particularly of urea and phosphate, and other inputs suffer from short and ofte&
unreliable supply. Locally manufacted ferdlizers and agrocheaiicals also have low and variable
qaity and distribution is constrained by bureaucracy and lack of transport cpacity.
1.18         Seed Supply. Responsibility for the supply of improved ,uality seed is divided
between thb China National Seed Corporadon (CNSC), the Bureau of State Fams (BSF) and
provinchl, muicipal/prefectural and county seed companies. The CNSC is responsible for the
import and export of seed and for coordinating seed production and distribution at the national
level; the BSF produces seed mainly for use on state farms with a surplus (about 15 percent) for
sale to farmers; and the seed companies produce the bulk of the commerciW seed sold M
farmers. The recenty established National Seed Station (NSS) of MOA is responsible for seed
policy formulation and overall coedinafion and regulation of the seed company system.
1.19         There are at present more than 2,600 seed companies, most (over 2,200) at the
county level and above. Almost al countes have their own seed companies. Annual seed sales
increased from 1.55 million tons in 1986 to about 3 million tons in 1991, hybrid seed having the
highest rate of increase. The proportion of seeds planted by farmers provided by seed companies
increased from 9.7 percent in 1980 to 25 percent in 1991, but is still quite low given MOA's
desire to promote hybrid vareties.
1.20         lIvestock Support Servics Extension services are provided through a network
of Animal Husbandry and Veternay Service Centers (AHVSCs) l(cated at the provincial,
prefecr, county and township leveis, parallel to the agricultural ATEC system. This huge



-6-
livestock etsion and veterinary service system Is overseen by only 75 professional staff who
mako up the Nationa Animal Husbandry and Health Sevices Center at MOA. Ninety provincial
centers (4,110 er"ployees) are supported by 593 prefecur/muIcipal (11,971 employees) and
4,941 county (72,422 employees) ceners. Ihe provincial and prefectural/municipal centers are
large;,, concerned with policy, plannig and administrative support. Some 62,300 town;hip
cenes with a total of 320,000 fidl-tme employees, provide farmer support in the areas of
aimal husbandry, animal health, livestock improvemen and pasture development. Staffing Is
adequate, with a national average of one township livestock technician to 625 farm households.
The township livestock technical staff are assisted by part-time FTs at the village level. The
AHVSCs zre supported at all levels by a limited mumber of spe&dized centers involved in breed
and pasture improvement services and research and, at the provincial and national levels, by
livestock input production and quality control centers.
1.21        Disease Control. In the recent past, China has relied heavily on vaccine-induced
protection against disease outbreaks, and the vaccine production industry with associated vaccine
distribution systems is well developed. Viruly all livestock vaccines used in China are
produced locally and channeled to cold stores located at the county and township levels.
Production of the various vaccines is not yet well coordined with animal protection priorities,
and the emphasis should now shift fom infectious disease control toward the more difficult to
diagnose and control production diseases. To this end, the veterinary diagnostic system requires
upgrading both in tesig technology and staff training.
1.22         Feed Industry.  The feed industy is making a major impact on the
intsification of poultry, pig and fish production by providing more compound feeds. and by
usin underutlized crop and agroprocessing by-products for feed. A number of nati aal and
regional feed formulation and nutritional intake standards are in existence, usually developed to
serve regional needs from the temperate north to the t-opical south. National feed milling
resources consist of about 14,000 mills of from 1,000 to 100,000 tons anmual capacity, with an
aggregate annuial capacity of 32 million tons. In 1991, compound feed production totaled
32 million tons out of an estimated 118 million tons of available feed gains. Most mills are
registered as either county or township enterprises. Ihe national target is to convert 80 percent
of available feed grains into formulated rations by the year 2010.
1.23        The China National Bureau for Technical Supervision (CNBTS), a parastatal
agency reportig to the State Council, oversees all quality control programs. Feed quality testing
at the national level Is implemented by the China National Center for Quality Supervision and
Testig of Feed (CNCQSTF). The Center provides technical supervision to 35 DAH-managed
provincial and municipal feed quality control laboratories. Random testing is carried out but
limited by smal recurrent budgets. At present, 112 of 900 drafted regulations of a newly
proomlgated Feed Law have been passed, with all expected to be legislated by 1995. The
CNCQSTF also provides services to the feed industry, including training feed laboratory
techician, drafting feed quality stndards, carrying out research on feed quality control
techniques, and givig annual awards to superior mils.
1.24        Lvestock Breeding.   Livestock genetic resource management is the
responsibility of the DAH Division of Gene Resources, with the CAAS Beijing Instiute of
Animal Science (BIAS) being the lead research agency. The CAASIBIAS Department of
Genetics and Breeding has characterzed and published basic data on all livestock and poultry
breeds in China and carries out frequent gene studies to assist in classification of local strains.



-7 -
In total, 45 cattle breeds (including yak and buffao), 66 pig breeds, 45 sheep and goat breeds
and 50 poultry breeds have been identified. In the dairy Industry, a nadonal catto breeding
program, which includes performance tetng, has been Initiated. The Introduction of the lean
pork strategy involves the crossing of indigeous fales with lean or locally crossbred boars,
and raising the Fl offspin on improved feeds, resulting in improved efficiency and leaner
meat. Ihe breedig of specialized broiler and layer strains also appears to have advtages over
local dual-purpose birds, given the increaing hitensification Into meat and egg producdon.
Local duck and dhicken breed improvement should follow the time-tested pyramdal breeding
program.
1.25         IAvestock and Plant Quarante  The China Nadonal Animal and Plant
Quaranine Service (NAPQS), with headquaters in Beijing and 46 centers and 100  hes
across the country located at seaports, airports, inland frontiers and boundary rivers, is
responsible for preventing the introduction of exotic or designated animal and plant diseases into
the country. The NAPQS also controls the export of endangered species in line with China's
obligations as a signatory to ClTES (Convention on Trade in Endangered Species). Four
national animal quarantne isolation stions have been set up at Tangu, Beijing, Shanghai and
Guangzhou to serve as primary holding areas for Imported stock. The Tangu and Shangai
stations have been upgraded under bilateral assistance projects. A further 34 centers to
dminister in-country quaantine and animal movement are located in 17 provincial capitals and
autonomous regions and controlled by the Bureau of Animal Husbandry and Bureau of
Agiculture. The NAPQS's legislative mandate is centered around the 1992 Import and Export
Animal and Plant Quarantine Regulations of the People's Republic of China. A seies of 60
bilaterad animal and plant quartine agreemen  with other countries contributes to the
complexity of the legal framework within which the Service operates. The NAPQS has over
4,000 staff of whom 55 are at headquaters, and reports diety to the MOA, with only informal
links with DOA and DAH.
1.26        Quarantine management, as it relates to the enforcement of eistig reglty
laws which were redrafted and promlgated in October 1992, is increasingly hampered by the
ladck of access by China's national plant and quaantine services to the necessary modern
technical and regulatory data bases. China is not a member of the Office Internatlonale
Epizootiques (OlE), which has eaerbated its isolation from the international quante world
community. Overly L- lexible adminiLative procedures, combined with a previously outated
legal quarantine framework have further conibutd to divergences between the application of
China's quarantine regulations and those of other counties. lhe lack of modern, computerized
data bases upon which information networking systems can be built has prevented a rapid and
accurate response mechanism to quartine challenges. Furthermore, laboratory equipment and
teting methodology (such as the still widely used complementation test instead of the new and
more sensitive ELISA teciology) have been the source of discrepancies in test resuts and
resuting disputes with importing countries, to the detriment of importers and to China, which
urgently requires continous inflows of genetic plant and animal genetic pools.
1.27        Veterinary Phamacca  and Bloproducts Quality Control. The quality
control of veterinay pharmaceuticals and biological products is fundamental to improving animal
health standards through drug treamt and vaccination programs. Quality control is exercised
at the national level by the National Control Institute of Veterinary Bioproducts and
Pharmaceuticals (NCIVBP). At the provic  level routine and spot checking is cied out by
DAH laboratories and by prdectural and comty veteriay stations. AlU ma c    plaits



-8-
are required to carry out in-house quality control and inspection of products, although only the
largest, in fact, joindy carry out meaningful quality control programs. The NCIVBP is restricted
operationally and financially by MOA and CNBTS as to the etent of its tesn program, which
poses a constraint on its national impact. Recognition by CNBTS of the National Quality
Control Center for Veterinary Bloproducts and Pharmaceuticals (NQCCVBP) as the designated
national quality control center for veterinary bioproducts and phamaceudtcals would enable it
to extend its supervision and inspection activities, and would allow for greater financial self-
sufficiency through revenue from testng and licensing fees.
E. SECpORAL OBEcnvEs AMD BANK GRoVp IZNJG
1.28         The Government's long-term objectives for the agricultul sector are to increase
food production to meet the requirements created by population and Income growth, and raise
incomes and employment opportunities in rural areas. Given China's shortage of arable virgin
land, development planners have focussed on the need to increase the productivity of presently
cropped areas. Per capita and total value added in the crop subsector are to be raised primarily
by increasing the yield and quality of food, feed, orchard, and industrial crops as well as
agroprocessing.
1.29         The Bank Group lending to China's agricultra sector is designed to support the
Government's efforts to increase and diversify agricultural production. Bank Group agricultura
lending to date has comprised 30 operations amountng to $3.6 billion and has covered the full
spectrum of geographic areas and subsectors, with overall focus on land development, irrigation
and drainage (7 projects), upgrading agricultural support services including agdcultural research,
education, credit and seed improvement (7 projects) and developing specialized subsectors
including rubber, forestry, fruit and fisheries development (8 projects) and area development (8
projects). In recent years, the Bank Group has supported a series of provincial development
projects in which an area development approach has been applied, with responsibility for
proposing and preparing the investment proposaIs and repayment of project funds restng with
provincial and lower level governme. Many of these provinci projects include limited
assistance to support services. The Rural Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 2967-CHA/Credit
1932-CHA) contributed to the articulation and strengthening of the reform process. Several
projects approved since 1989, namely National Afforestation (Credit 2145-CHA), Mid-Yangtze
Agricultural Development (Credit 2172-CHA), Fourth Rural Credit (Loan 3265-CHA/Credit
2182-CHA), Henan Agricultural Development (Credit 2242-CHA) and Tarim Basin (Credit
2294-CHA), contain significant subsectoral reform elements.
1.30         Several projects, now complete or nearing completion, are of particular relevance
to the proposed project. The Agricultural Education and Research Project (Credit 1297-CHA)
provided much needed manpower trining at local and overse  institutions of higher learning
as well as buildings, equipment, and technical assistance. The Second Agriculural Education
Project (Credit 2444-CA) was aimed at improving the quality and supply of high and middle
level agriculural manpower through improvement of 23 key agricultura colleges, establishment
of 8 trainig and extension support centers and supply of civil works, furniture, equipment,
technical assistance and training. The Second Agricultural Research Project (Credit 1516-CA)
supported improvements to 15 research centers responsible for research in food and cash crops,
livestock, aquatic products, forestry, hydrology and meteorology and a pilot program to
strengthen the extension work of ten county agoical extension centers. The Seeds Project



-9-
(Credit 1577-CHA) has provided modern seed processing equipment and trained staff in seed
processing, tsing and certification at 18 seed centers.
1.31         Implementation of most ongoing Bank Group projects in the agriculture sector
is more or less on schedule. Exceptions are support service type projects (Agriculural Research,
Education, Seeds) involving considerable inputs of foreign training, technical assistance and
intetional procurement, for which slightly longer disbursement periods would have been more
appropriate. Experience in previous Bank Group agricultual projects in China is that physical
works have been completed on time or ahead of schedule. Disbursements for agricultral
projects usually outpace those in other sectors. Notable features of all the projects are the high
standard of project management, the enthusiastic participation of farmers and the effective
coilaboration of government authorities at all levels. Project completion reports of projects that
have been completed indicate that implementation was generally successf Ul, that economic rates
of retrn reached or exceeded apprai  estimates, and that technology used was sound and
appropriate for wider application.
1.32.        Lessons learned from closely related completed projects have been used in the
design of this project. Greater weight is given to intrventions at the lower levels, i.e., county
level and below. The project woud firther strengthen linkages between provincial and lower
level agricultur  services, as well as with other supporting institutions. The project would
reinforce the Bank Group's policy and instiuional reform dialogue with the Government,
through the introduction of a number of reforms such as instituonal restructuring of the
xension system, cost recovery for services, linkages between national, provincial and local
level agrictural services, mantenance of price incentives to farmers, and commercialization
of enterprises and services. Greater emphasis would be given to service, maitan, spares
and operator training for equipment provided under the project. Based on experience gained in
the implemention of support service type projects involving considerable training and technical
assistance, a longer disbursement period than the standard profile would be required for this
project.
F. PfOJWr FORMULAT[ON AND RTIONALE
1.33         Most of China's cultivable land is already being exploited. Further growth in
agricultural production to meet the urgent needs of the county's increasing population must,
therefore, necessarily come from the intensificationof land use, i.e., increased yields and greater
cultivation intensities. Such intensification of production systems among the 200 million
smallholder farmers, who account for practically all of China's agricultural outut, would require
(a) appropriate policies to ensure the maintance of attractive farm level incentives, (b)
increased investment in agriculture, (c) availability of quality farm inputs, and (d) development
and timely transfer to farmers of advanced technologies that address their crop and animal
production constaints. The Government recognizes that the country does not have adequate
finmcial resources to invest heavily in new irrigation, land reclamation and other capital
Intensive measures to intensify agricultural production. The Government's approach therefore,
is to invest in the development of science and technology as a means of increasing output In
the short and medium term this trUnslates into the adaptation of existg improved technology
to local agricultural oonditions and its dissemination to farmers on lands with potential for
substata production increases.



- 10-
1.34         Previous Bank Group intevendons have dealt with specific aspects of the
developmt of speafic support services such as agicultura research, agriculura education and
seed poduction at a nationa level (or at least with a national focus) as wetl as with provincial
agricultural development projects having elements of suport to these sevices. A naiona
agicultura support services project would extend the experiences gained under these previous
Bank projects to new areas (e.g., vetinary, quarantine and quality control of inputs). Ihe
project would also promote the role of women in  tension related actvities and afford them
greater access to training and job opportnites (para. 6.8). The project would support human
capital development and introduce appropriate technologies and tecdniques to strengthen the
agriculturl support service system as a model to be replicated outside the project areas.



-11 -
2
THE PROJECT AREAS
A. General
2.1          The proposed project is national in scope, and would directly or indirecty
sre the agricultur services provided by MOA and its provinc  and lower level affiliates
throughout China. Improvemens in national services, such as those dealing with quarantn,
Input quality control and information, would have an impact on the production environment of
farmers in the whole country. For these services, the project area is, therefore, the whole
country.
2.2          Project actilties to improve field-level seices to farmers-such as agotical
etension, seed supply and livestck field services, would directly benefit farmers in selected
project counties in seleted provinces, including eight counties in poor areas. It would also
indiredy benef farmers in the "nonproject' counties of the selected provinces by sengthening
the capacity of each province and/or prefectwe to give technica support to all its counties.
Outside of the selected provinces, project interventions are designed to create models that will
have d     on  effects on nonproject provinces and institutions and, as such, they can be
considered to be national in scope.
B. LoCANION
2.3         For the agrotechnical extension component, project intervendions are proposed
for ten provinces (Guangxi Hebei, Heilongiang, Hunam, Jiangsu, LiaonIng, Shaanxi, Sichuan,
and Shanghai and Beijing municipalities), 13 prefectures or municipalities, 52 counties, and 649
townships. The seeds component would involve ten provinces, 14 prefectures or municipalities,
and 41 counties. The livestock services component woud cover nine provinces, 18 prefctue
or municipalities, 56 counties, and 308 townsps. Project provinces, prefures/municipalities
and counties are shown on IBRI) Maps Nos. 23859, 23909, and 23910, and area statistics and
basic features of the twelve provinces selected for implentation of the different field service
components are summarized in AMi 1.
2.4          The selection of project areas for field services was based on the criteria that (a)
the local govermnents have crop and livestock production as a priority in their development plan;
(b) the areas have high demonstaton value and represent the major agroecological regions and
firming systems; (c) the areas have high potential for rapid increase in production with the
improvement of support services alone and without investment in irrigation facilities, soil
improvement, input supply, storage, credt or marketg  cities; and (d) they are not covered
by other smilar projects.



- 12 -
C. SUPPORT SERVICES
2.5          ihe main instittona weaknes and constain  which limi China's ablity to
provide efficit  ort services to fams    are as follows:
2.6          The major weakmess in agricultural aIniron   is the lack of commnication
and coordinato  horizontally among technical bureau  with differen speciaizatons and
vertialy betweean natonal technical burea  and their provincial counterparts in given
specities. This has resulted in duplication of efforts, inefficiency in program execution, and
divetge objectives. There are also too many bureaus or equivalent hnstitutions to be effectively
manaed directly from  the office of the Ministe of Agriculture.  Arrangemen  for
Int errovnca coordination of agricultural services and for monitoring and evaluadon, even for
many of MOA's own programs, are weak to nonexstent Magement information systems as
well as agricultura information systems for technical services (crop fioecing, dise
monito , etc.) are fagmented and un     ad. Ihe serious difficuties encountered in
btWaft  and cordinating crop and livetock production support services at all ae
levels are an example of this.
2.7          An        sbandry         n.  Siminar organizaonal and adminisve
constrints as fund under DOA are also apparent under DAR and its provincial counterparts,
BAH; a lack of verical and horizoa communication; duplication of effort and inefficient
program implemention; lack of clearly defined line agency responsibilities for anmal
produtcdon, health and support services; ovely extensive administrative inructures at the
expen  of service orientation; a lack of bIttutonal hands-on training for field personnel, and
limied access by DAH and BAR staff to farmers as the result of limited field mobilit, lack of
opeating budgets, lack of etension resources and field-directed technology trfer, espeially
in animal productin.he DAR and DMB   infastructes also suffer from a pre iance of
animal health-directed programs, with animal production and support services takdag relativdy
minor roles.
Crop Sevces
2.8          A     ltl  ienon. The major weaknesses in agricultural extension services
are structural. The ATECs at differe  levels do not have clearly defined functions. Each level
tends to have duplicative functions and the staff have unclear reponsibiities. These functions
are ot propedy liad in an integmted systm able to backsop frn-4ine extension workles with
adapted te cal messages, training or other types of assce in solving farmers' problems
and provig feedback of farme problems upwards. Ihe system is fiurter cnstained by lack
of opeating fnds, nadequM  education and trai    of the field staff to enable them to absorb
sophisticatd techologies, the lack of appropate exnsion methods in the diss ion of new
technology to fars, and the lack of laboratory, training, coicatons and transport
faciltes and equipment
2.9          Adaptive R arh Research inses carring out adaptive reearch work in
reative ioolaton and considerable dupliat     Few foml linkges ext between a cultur
research, educ  and exnsi   Research Intiutes ofien have their own etension programs,
and thdr staff sped consirble time, energy and resources rnnig them. Applied research



- 13 -
findings at provincia and prefectr leve are supposed to be tested, adapted to local, farm-level
conditions and passed on to extension by the CATECs. However, CATECs do ot exist in about
half the countes, and where they do, they usually have limited, poorly equipped staff assigned
to cary out adaptive research prgrams and have little direct contact with the higher level
research institutes. There is no mechnism for Identiig  urgent farm-level problems or
promoting programs of demand-driven research. Technical staff have little or no training in
on-fam, adaptive research methods. The supporting laboratoTles at the CATEC level are usually
inadequately equipped, and CATEC technical programs are frequently interrupted by shortages
of operating funds.
2.10         Seed Services.  Constrains which affect China's seed industry include
duplication of functions and responsibilities between seed production and seed certification and
regulation, inadequate regulatory procedures and lack of traned staff. The industry also suffers
from lack of proper quality control and lacks adequate faciities for seed testng, drtying,
processing and storage. The seed markeXt system is inefficient and lacks finaneial autonomy
from the Government. The Governmen's long range plans caU for upgrading some 300
important seed centers throughout China, but so far only 18 have been modernized, under the
previous Bank-supported Seeds Project (Credit 1577-CHA).
Uvestock Seices
2.11         Livestock   tion and Research.  Extension services in China are by
necessity crop-oriented, and inadequate attention is given to livestock extension. Practically no
on-farm adaptive research is carried out on livestock. In general, etension staffing levels are
adequate but staff are only semiskilled in biological sciences, with the result that basic concepts
of disease control, epidemiology and prevention are poorly understod. Training schedules are
planned but seldom executed due to inadequate recurrent budgets. Course contents are generaly
theoretical, and important fields like extension methodology, communication skills and farm
management are rarey covered. Extension staff frequently have their extension efforts diluted
by nonextension demands. The flow of technical inormation is constrained by shortages of
technical journals and textbooks. nbrmation flow from and between research and extension
staff is poor and usually top-down. Interegional tehnical information transfer is particularly
weak.
2.12         Townsip and county exsion offices often lack the basic resources for efftive
communication of information to famers. Staff often lack basic tools and drugs for animal
husbandary programs. Ihis situon stems from the Government's policy of self-sufficiency at
all levels and is aggavated by the DAH's philosophy of providng total services to farmers
(feed, product marketing and proesing) without the necessary resources.
2.13         Veterinary Field Services. Field exposure of veterinary staff remains relatively
limited due to transporaion and drug supply shortage. As a result, veterinary field services
have taken on a passive, rather than active role. ITis lack of field exposure also limits sample
collecton and effects diagnostic laboratory operions, which deend on field specimen inflows.
Disease invesgation in the field is chronically hampered by the lack of transportation, poor
diagnostic skills and indequae diagnostic equipment. Knowledge of epidemiological and
veteriny ecomic principles is also vtly absent, as these subjects are not an officW part
of the vetrn    curriculumL Most disease invesdgations, therefore, conDist of a basic statistical
anysis of the nidence andlor preaence of die.  The inability to carry out disease



- 14-
mapping and forecasting exercises and disease outbreakprojections has consequences for national
vaccine production and disease control strategies. A main constraint found in many management
Inonation systems is the techial Inability to convert input data into Interpreted, anytic
action reports with resulting feedback to the lower levels.
2.14         Feed Quality Control Seri. Feed testig and quality control at the national
and provincial levels is constained by limited testng budgets, expertise, field mobility and
organizational factors. Since there is no system of payment for services, China National Burea
for Technical Supervision (CNBTS) is in chronic financial difficulty. Greater autonomy for
CNCQSTF to charge for tesdng would increase the organization's incentive to carry ou; its
regulatory mandate. At present, laboratory resources are often diverted to industdal testing as
a source of income to support operadng budgets. The project would initiate a system of cost
recovery for services and would strengthen staff capabilities and laboratory facilities. The
project would also promote the gradual take over by feed mills of responsibility for their own
in-house testing, leaving regulatory spot checklng to government laboratories.
2.15         Vderinary Pharmaceutical Quality Control. Ihe Insttutions and legislative
provisions for quality control of vetnary pharmaceuticals and bioproducts are in place (para.
1.27). The NCIVBP does not provide routine testng services to commercial producers of
veterinary pharmaceuticals and vaccines and therefore neither effectively supervises these
enterprises nor generates funds from testing and licensing fees. Such generation of fees would
ease its present lack of facilities and equipment.
2.16         Vaccine production in China requires significant upgrading. Local vaccine
production primarily involves poultry virus and bacteria vaccines, with smaller amounts of pig
and cattle vaccines. The quality of poultry vaccines is variable depending on the ability to
manintain comnant-free replication substrates for vaccine vhrus propagation, commonly carried
out in specfic pathogen free (SPF) eggs derived from isolated SPF layer flocks. The presence
I incubation eggs of conta t viruses/mycoplasmas or other pathogens seriously undermines
vaccine efficacy and can cause disease outbreaks upon vacination. To guard against fhis
eventuaity, poultry vaccine production requires significant upgrading in terms of SPF egg supply
linked to stringent contaminat monitoring capabilities in vacine production laboratories.
Vaccine handling is also constrained by lack of adequate thermos containers or ice in the field,
and defective storage freezers and cold storage rooms.
2.17         Lvestock Breeding. The lack of a single national livestock breeding agency
with a mandate to oversee national stock improvement programs is a major constraint in Chinas
efforts to upgrade and itensify livestock and poultry production. Heavy reliance on imported
germplasm and breeding stock cannot replace the indigenous gene pool required to upgrade
national herd and flock numbers. Increasing reliance on the upgrading of domestic livestock and
poultry gene pools would be required to achieve this objective. Such efforts are underway in
the dairy cattle industry and, to a lesser extent, in the national pig population. The National
Livestock Genetic Resource Center at Beijing University would be responsible under the project
for coordinatg breeding programs.
2.18         Animal and plant Quarantine Services. Deficiencies in tehnical operations
and quaant  management at NAPQS have in the past acted as an obstacle to the upgrading of
China's animal and plant genetic resources and have also resuted in heavy losses of livestock
and plant product epots and breeding stock imports. The major constains are related to



- 1S -
outdated, cumbersome and obscure quarantine regulations and procedures; inadequate diagnosic
laboratory equipment and facilitles for ttng for animal and plant diseases; inapproprate or
outaed testng methodologies; lack of plant quaane  facilities; lack of a system of rapid
information exchange on nadonal and   aional quarantdne matters, and, above all, poorly
aed staff who have not been exposed to modern quarantine concepts and practices. Daft
uarann laws were issued on October 31, 1991, and came into frce on Aprfl 1, 19. The
updated legal infastructure would have to be matched by upgraded physical and human
resource-based dignostic systems and  reater ineraction with the intrntonal qua ne
comuity.
D. DESGN CoNSMRATos
2.19         A number of considerations have been taken into account in the design of the
project. The more important of these are discussed below.
Project Focu
2.20        The foc is of the project would be on strengening institutions that provide
support sevices to farmes. As identified in paras. 2.6-2.18, weaknesses in these instttions
affect their abilities to provide efficient services and constitute major constraints to improvements
in the volume and quality of farm producdon and in farm incomes. Supports to other services
of inportce to farmers such as markeing, irrigation, machinery services and distution of
fertilizer and insecticides are excluded, not only to keep the project within manageable
proportions, but also because these services are provided by ministies other than the Minisy
of Agriculture, and are being supported through other sources.
Choice of Componets
2.21        Several considerations have guided the choice of components for the project. The
fast priority is given to strengthening insttions which provide support services. Highest
priority would be to strengthen field-level services, including county, township, and village crop
and livestock exsion services, veterinary and prevenive animal health services, and cetain
aspects of the input supply services. Also, the project is concerned with providing support to
adapdve research, animal breed improvement, foundation seed production, training of field
service personnel and information services. Finally, MOA's management capacity and
nationallprovincial-level regulaory services would be strengthened. Specific reasons for the
selection of the individual components of the project are discussed below.
2.22        At present, the MOA and provinal departments of agriculture and animal
husbandry are not organized or equipped to provide support services efficiently. Restructring
of some of MOA's institutions, particularly the DOA, is necessary, including the creation of an
etension management capacity, establishment of information systems, insitutional and resource
support to field services, and monitoring and evaluation. In addition, since MOA would
coordinate the implemention of the project, and the management requirements for this project
are complex, arrangements must be made to insure that the organization, manpower, training,
tehnical assistance and related management systems are in place in the MOA and provinc
level organizadons. A reorganization review of the central Department of Animal Husbandry
(DAB) and provinal Bureau of Animal Husbandry (BAR) was completed and deemed
satisfactor at negodations.



- 16 -
2.23         A reorganization of the ATEC system would be carried out wihin project units.
One dimension of the proposed reorganization is flmctiona specialization within various levels
of the system to avoid the cure  duplication of activities. Another dimension conces the
restructuring of the system at each level. First, the tecinical subject matter unit would be
reorganized into a unified system of adaptive research and message development. Second, a new
etension, tinin and conication unit would be developed at each level to enable it to
prepare appropriate publications and tWaing materials. Finally, syems of extension linkages
with research institutes, the agricutural universities and with farmers would be established
(AnUex4). These new structu  arrangements proposed are shown in Chart 3.
2.24         The design of adaptive research progrms would emphasize strengthening
ATEC's adaptive research and technology testing system so that general recommendaions can
be tailored to local needs and provide demand-driven adaptive resech to anayze and address
farm-level problems.  The seed subcomponent would contne and extend interventions
commenced under the World Bank Group supported Seeds Project. The inclusion of seed
industy development in the present project would provide an opportunity to move towards
commercialization of the operadons of seed companies, strengthen foundation seed production,
and separate the regulatory aspects of the industry from its production and commercial aspects.
2.25         The major design considerations in crop and livestock field services concern what
approaches to take and the scale of the interventions. The approach to be pursued through ftis
project would be to build on the strengths of the curre  system and direct project inputs toward
stregthening weaknesses and alleviating identified consaints. Therefore, project activities and
mnputs would involve rationalizing the organization of the existng AIEC system, strengthening
its infrastructure where necessary, upgrading the educational level as well as the technical and
etension skills of frontline extension workers, providing postgraduate education and adaptive
research traing for subject matter specialists at the county and prefecture levels, and improving
extion linkages with research insituaes, agricultura universities and farmer oiganizations.
2.26         The project would aim to provide an ATEC model which can be replicated
outside the project areas. To achieve this, it is important tat the reorganization of the services
cover the whole extension system. A pyramidal model comprising of one PATEC, two
MATECs, six CATECs and ten TATES has been used for the selection of ATECs to be included
in the project. Parallel pyramidal models have been proposed for seeds, livestock and veterinary
services. A review of present facilities and manpower of selected ATECs would be carried out.
The project would finance facilities and training to enable the ATECs aftr reorganization to be
fully functional with respect to their reassigned roles and responsibilities.
2.27         As for livestock field services, emphasis would be on improvements in the
balance of livestock production and health services, increased integration of the cropflivestock
system for smallholders (crop and livestock extension programs would be fiuily itegrated in two
project counties, including joint planning of extension acties and shaing of training
resources), improved adaptive research tcnologies and their transfer to traditional farmers,
improved livestock extension programs, metodology and communications, increased
involvement of Farmer Associations in the bottom-up plawi'iur of livestock services and program
development, and better field regulatory control of animal feeds, vetnary drugs and vaccines.
National breed improvement programs would also be better focussed and prioritized. Quaraine
services would be better trained and equipped, more responsive to end-user needs, and would
operate in greater harmony with their international counterpart services.



-17-
3
TUE PROJECT
A. GENERAL
3.1          The objective of the project would be to uist the Government in increasing
agricultural producdon and farmers' incomes. Tis would be achieved by s      the
iNions tat provide support srvices to farmers. Ihe project would increa. the efficiency
of their opeons and the efectiveness of their research, etension and other support progrms.
TIe indirect result of ftis improvement in instiutons and programs would be to irease the
proctty and iensity of crop and lhvestock production.
*I. PRBOcr DESC ION
3.2          Ihe proposed project would comist of seven major components as
Mlows:
(a)    Aicultre Mmnagent and liformation. This component would restructure
the atension services of the agricura detmes  at the national, provinca
and local levels, Improve their managmt capability and establish intrmatioun,
netwokng and monhoring and evaluation systems;
(b)    Agriulual Eenion Svices.  hi compone  has been designed to:
(1)   organize the ATEC system to acieve futiona specialization by levd
and subject matter Integration wilhin each level, and the creation of new
extension, training and comunications units at SaU levels, national to
couny;
(i)  strenthen the physical resources of the ATEC sysem, inuding
provision of laboratory, training and office f"cides and equipment, and
vehicles tO inrease staff mobility;
(Ii)  improve the human resources of the ATEC system dtough the provision
of both in-service education and training to upgrade the capacity of Ihe
ATEC staff and to mnease their job specific skills and knowledge;
(rv)  strenthen the ATECs' abilty to boti tailor general recomtons to
local needs       daptive reseach and tecnology tesng and alo
address  farmlevel problems  thrwogh  demand-driven  resech
programing; and



. 18-
(v)  strengthen extension linkages with research Itutes, agricultural
universities and colleges, and farmers through an expanded network of
farmer associations.
(c)    Seed Supply Seric. IThe focus of this component would be on strehening
county-level seed companies to increase the quanty and qua: y of seed supplied
to farmers. The project would reorganize project seed centers to separate seed
production from certification and regulation and would provide equipment,
facilties and training to the  oanized center and commercialized companies.
The project would assist the latter In improving commercial performance.
(d)   lIvestock ServIcs. This component would support:
()  Livestock Field So-vices.  The stengthening of direct services to
frmers, including anima production and health services, Animal
Husbandry and Vetriny Serice Centers and extension and breeding
services for smallholders through upgrading of facilities, equipment and
training;
(ii) lIvestock Support Activities. Investments would be provided to
establish a Nadonal Animal Husbanry and Vetrinary Service Center
(NAHVSC), a specific pathogen free (SPF) vaccine egg production unit
in Nanjing, a National Plant and Livestock Geneic Resource Center
under CAAS and a National Veterinary Diagnostic Reference Laboratory
with Epidemiology and Libary Units under Beijing Agriculura
University (BAU).
(e)    National Animal and Plant Quarantine Services. This component would
improve China's access to the quaratne-related information of other counties,
streamline its control procedures against the ety of exotic pests and diseases
and increase its exposure to moder quarantne concepts, procedures and
praces through traiing, improved iormation systems and the upgrading of
laboratory and quarantine facilities.
(f)    Quality Control and Rqeulatory Services. This component would support:
(i) development of effective regulatory and monitoring services for
fertilizers and psicides;
(ii) establishment of provincial seed testng laboratories and improvement of
provincial and prefectural inspection facilities;
(iii) upgrading of the human and physical resources of the National Control
Instiute for Veerinary Bioproducts and Pharmaceaticals and nine
provincial centers;
(iv) upgrading of the human and physical resources of the China National
Center for Quality Supervision and Testing of Feed (CNCQSTF) in
Beijing, and nine proviia centers;



(v) the establishment of a new National Center for Quality Control of
Veterina  Equipment under the NAHVSC, and
(vi) the establishment of a new National Center for Quality Control of
Veterinary Products, also under the NAHVSC.
(f)   Project   n    t.  Te project would strengthen aional and provincial
project coordination offices by providing equipment, facilities, training, technical
assistace and study tours.
C. DrAMED FEATURES
Agricultural Administration
3.3         M!anagement Services. Technical assi nce for the restructuring of the DOA
is underway. The restructuring and strengthening of t., DAH and NATEC would be assisted
by the provision of technical assistance comprising 4 person months of an internationally
recruited consultant and 5 person months of local consultants. Initially, an iternationally
recruited agricultural institutions expert would be working with a local management consultant
to cary out a review and analysis of the DAH and to prepare a report contning
recommendations on the organization strucure and linkages whhin the DAHI for effective
delivery of support services to farmers. Ihis work would be based on the broad proposals made
in this report. Restuctring and strengthening would be facilitated by overseas training and
stdy tours [72 person months (p.m.)J for senior stff from DOA, DAH, NAPQS and the ten
provinces and other levels participating in the project. At nepoatiaons, assurances vere obtaied
that NAIEC and DAM  would be reorganized on the basis of .n organizatonal struture agreed
with IDA to be comnpeted by June 30, 1994.
3.4          Overall upgrading of MOA's management services would be done by hitensive
uainig (390 p.m. of local and 220 p.m. of in-service refresher training). The internal tining
is mainly aimed at improving language and computer skills. Language training courses of six
months duration would be provided to 30 national and 40 provincial officers at recognized
Chinese language training institutions. Training courses of one month's duration in computer
software operations (DOS, word processing, spreadsheets, data bases) would be provided to 195
national officers by the Information Center of MOA. Advanced computer programming and
information systems management training of two months duration would be provided to S
national and 15 provincial officers by selected Chinese institutions. In-service training (40 p.m.
for national and 180 p.m. for provincW officers) would be provided for officers to attend
in-service courses, workshops and seminas directed at upgrading their skills in management
services and information systems.
3.5          Agricultural Inornmation System. Plans for strengthening the agricultural
information systems in the MOA are summaized ineAm 6. These plans were originally
prepared by an information systems planner, with the assistance of the Information Working
Group that has been established in MOA for this project. These plans were modified somewhat
to pursue a decentralized approach that would be more cost-effective in providing computing and
information serAces to the paricipating units. The departments and units would still have access
to the information cente's computing and technical assistance resources through high speed
modems. A comparable approach to computing and agricultural information services is being



-20 -
pursued at the provincial level. Overseas training (12 p.m.) would be provided for hardware
design and local area networking. ITree p.m. of intematlonal and 4 p.m. of local technical
assistmce related to project preparation/impuentation support, would be pwvided to assist In
the preparation of hardware and software fncional and technical specifications, staff trning,
and preparation of data base management prgrams.
Agrotechnlcal Exnson SevIces
3.6          Under this component, the project would rationalize and strengthen key
institutions and linkages of the agrotechnical extension system at the NATEC in MOA
headquarts and in approximately 13 prefectures, 52 counties Pod 649 townships across 10
provinces. Specific dimensions of the project follow:
3.7          Reorganizing and Strengthening the ATEC System. To eliminate the existig
duplication of activities among different levels in the agrotechnical technical extension system
and the consequent inefficient use of resources, its organizational structure would be modified
by assigning specialized, but vertically integrated functions to each level of the ATEC system.
Within each level, functional integration of the subject matter specialists (SMS) would be
effected by combining the soil and fertilizer, plant protection, and food/cash crop production
units into a single, integrated division under the leadership of an experienced, broadbased SMS.
The major functions recommended for each system level are described in the Working Paper for
Agrotechnical Extension Centers in the project profile (Annex 12). The structural arrangements
for this reorganized system are given in Chart 3.
3.8          The project would also create new extension training and communications units
from the national to county levels of the system. In addition, linkages with research institutes
and agricultural universites would be improved through the establishment of extension
committees and consultancy arrangements, on the one hand, and with farmers, through farmer
study groups and associations, on the other. The basic outline of the proposed new structural
arrangements is illustrated and described in the above Working Paper. In order to assist in the
transformation of the proposed organizational structure into a functional ATEC system, an
institutional development technical assistance team, comprising internaional (15 p.m.) and local
(34 p.m.) consultants would be eligible for retoactive financing. Terms of reference for these
technical assistance services are given in Annex 10.
3.9          The NATEC and the selected project units at the lower levels (see para. 3.6),
would be expected to serve as a replicable model for evenully strengthening the entire ATEC
system in China. As a demonstration of the reorganized system, each project Unit would be
provided with a modest level of capital inputs for training and staff development, to enable them
to be fiuly functional with respect to their assigned roles and responsibilities after the
reorganization. In general, each project unit would receive the following types of inputs:
3.10         Civil Works. Funds would be provided under the project to expand or upgrade
ATEC training centers, office facilities and laboratories at the national, provincial,
mnumcipal/prefecture, county and township levels. At the national level, this would include a
6,800 m2 building to house the new unified agrotechnical service division, including the
reorgaized NATEC and the other production management and regultory units. The additional
building requirements for training, laboratory and office space at the PATEC, MATEC,
CATEC, and TATES levels have been .,dmated by applying norms for the building space



-21 -
reuired at each level, In relation to the volume of taning to be conducted, the number of soil,
plant and other analyses to be completed on an amual bass, and the number of staff to be
accomoe  and then subtg the respecdve facilities that are already available at each
project site. It is esimated t  the project units to be funded uader this project would include
about 2,500 m: of civil works for each PATEC, 1,250 m2 for each MATEC and CATEC, and
about 140 ne for each TATES to provide a farmer trWaining classroom.
3.11         Equipment and Vehicles. For each level of the ATEC system, the project
would provide appropriate training equipment, as well as audiovisual (A-V) equipment to
produce a wide range of training and extension materials; laboratory and field equipment to
support the on-farm adaptive research program, and to upgrade diagnostic (plant protection) and
soil testing services to farmers; and vehicles in support of on-farm research and demonstration
acdvities. Specifically, the project would supply NATEC with one video production unit, a fully
developed publication facility with two offset press and the necessary printing and binding
equipment, a complete set of A-V equipment for the NATEC training center, computers, office
equipment and furniture and transport. Also the Central Agricultural Broadcasting and
Television School (CABTS) would receive support to upgrade its video production equipment
to mest national (education) television stndards.
3.12         In each PATEC, a video production unit would produce trainivg videos for use
in the in-service training program of CATECs and TATES, and for broadcast on provincial TV
and for exdhange with other provinces. The video production units being provided to each
PATEC would be shared with fteir respective Provincial Agricult  Broadcasting and
Television Schools to enable these units to produce and duplicate video tapes for use by the
county and township schools throughout each province. A basic A-V training equipment
package, a modest prinfing capability, fiuniture, books, training materials and microcomputers
would also be supplied to each PATEC. Six vehicles per PATEC would be provided to meet
the transport requirements. In addition, each PATEC would be equipped to carry out on-farm,
farming systems research and crop management research traing for MATEC and CATEC level
SMSs.
3.13         The project would strengthen about two MATECs per province to enable them
to conduct fiaming systems-oriented adaptive research, coordinate and promote the exchange of
information on adaptive research, supervise the on-farm constraint analysis and adaptive research
programs of CATECs, and to monitor the resources, activities, and ongoing programs being
conducted by each CATEC and TATES in the prefecure. Also, project fimding would cover:
civil works, A-V and print media equipment; upgrading the soils and fertilizer, plant protection,
and agronomy laboratori  to a common acceptable standard; and vehicles to support the
adaptive research and outreach activities of the selected MATECs.
3.14         About six CATECs per province (three per municipality) would be strengthened
under the project. The project would provide civil works, fnimnp, and requisite training and
prnt media equipment. Agrotechnical laboratory equipment would be upgraded to enable the
CATEC to carry out a larger volume of soil and plant analyses, to develop a diagnostic
laborantory for plant protection, to provide basic test plot equipment for on-fam constrait
anaysis and adaptive research, and to provide a microcomputer, software and accessories for
data analysis. Also, a recom ed vehicle package for each CATEC would be supplied.
Trining and communications equipment would be supplied to about 10 TATES per CATEC,
plus about l40 m2 of civil works would be provided for a firmer training classroom and sales



-22 -
office as well as a twin cab to facilita staff mobility at each selected TATES. Detailed lists of
equipment and vehicles needed by project units at each level are specified in the ATEC Working
Paper located in the project tiles and smmaized in the cost tables.
3.15         Approximately 24 CATECs would obtain loans from the ABC to establish or
expand fertilizer blending plants and to operate them as independt commercial entities. The
rationale and detaiLs for this pilot project are descibed in Annex 9. These plants would produce
compound fertilizer formwlated to meet location specific requiements, based on on-farm research
results (and soil/foliar anwlyses). Ihe objective would be to generate recurrent fiuds to
supplement the anual program budget of participating CATECs. This pilot project will be
carefully evaluated by the commercialized agricultural services unit in the reorganized NATEC
and, if successful, then this unit would disseminate infmation on this type of commercialized
agriculturia services activity to other CATECs in the country.
3.16         TaIning and Tehnical Assisan    The NATEC would be reinforced to fufil
its expanded extension role through M.Sc. degree training of four subject matter specialists and
with another 12 SMSs receiving a two year combined technical/extension postgraduate course
at the Beijing Agriculturl University (BAU). These individuals would become the leading
tecbnical specialists/trainers in their respective subject matter areas within the new integrated
technical unit of the reorganized NATEC. An additional 20 staff members from the Extension
Support Unit would be sent for a one-year diploma course in different areas of extension
education/management at BAU. Technical support staff would be trained for one to two months
in the use of new A-V equipment provided under the project. A one-month overseas study tour
has been progamed for three senior staff members of the NATEC; additional extension
specialists would be sent for study tours to observe the organization and use of farmer
associations in other Asia counties.
3.17         In addition to the consultants required to plan and implement the institutional
development technical assista  for the reganizaon plan (para. 3.8), one foreign agricult
taiing specialist would be required for a total of 3 p.m. and one local specialist would be
needed for a total of 21 p.m. to carry out a skll-lgap analysis that would be used in preparing
provincial and overall master training plans. Also, three p.m. of foreign and three p.m. of local
consultants would be required to assist in ordering and instling the A-V equipment, and then
in training the staff in its effective use. Funds would also be made available to allow NATEC
to access the serices of agncultural universities and research institutions in carrying out special
stdies, undertakingjoint research projects (e.g., Rhizobium, mycorthiza, zero tilage, etc.), and
preparing training packages or modules for training the ATEC staff.
3.18         At the PATEC level, the project would provide funding for three to four M.Sc.
degree candidates, eight two-year technical/extension training courses, eight one-year diploma
courses in extension education/management at BAU, a one-month overseas study tour for
PATEC directors, a four-month short course for five SMSs/trainers (including one adaptive
research specialist from each PAAS) at the Intemational Rice Research Institute (IRRI) and a
armer association study tour for two extension specialists. Technical support staff, such as the
A-V production staff, would be sent for one month short courses. Technical assistance
(domestic) would be provided to help plan and install the new video, training, and
communication equipment. Also, at the PATEC level, a special fund would be set up to finance
joint research projects, and for the preparation of training modules with PAAS and universities.



- 23 -
3.19         In order to upgrade on-he-job skills and knowledge of the MATEC staff to cary
out faring systems oriented adaptive resah, and to monitor and coordinate CATEC
programs, a standard in-country training packag is proposed. Similarly, at the CATEC level,
agm-techicl SMSs would be trained to carry out and analyze on-farm adaptive research trials
and laboratory thician would be trained to perform the necessy laboratory analyses.
Diploma level trainn would be provided for extension trainers and short courses would be
provided for personel in the training and communications unit. All farmer technicians assigned
to the TATES, but lacking at least a CABTS qualification, would be findd to complete this
requirement on a part-ime basis. Details of proposed training and technical assistance programs
at differt levels are given inAm 3.
3.20         Integrated pest management (IPM) is a key technology which would be purued
within the ATEC component. IPM pilot projects, involving rice, cotton and vegetables would
be implemented in six pwvinces. These projects would further strenghten research and extension
linkages by directly involving three natonal research instutes that deal with rice, cotton and
vegetables. Farmer associations (FAs) in the project areas would be organized and utilized to
help Implement the IPM programs. Funds have been allocated for the six pilot projects and
NATEC is developing specific proposals for IDA review at negotiations.
3.21         The project is givi.g particular emphasis to the organization of FAs in both crop
and livestock sectors. These FAs are aready springing up throughout the country but with
varying degrees of succes. The project would fund a series of acies, including a study of
FAs in China (already underway), a study tour of FAs in other Asian countries, a national
workshop, and pilot projects to develop and test the most appropriate methodology and models
for establishing FAs troughout the project area and country. CATECs and TATES would
establish advisory committees and panels for farmers to have a direct input into the formulation
of adaptive research progruns and in guiding and evaluating extension programs. It is expected
that FAs would develop a close working relationship with the county level Science and
Technology Commissions that fund research-ension projects that are proposed by each
CATEC. Through these different types of intaction, farmers would have a direct impact on
ormuatin adaptive research-ension priorities and programs. Asuranes were obained t
FA acties would be carIed ot wuder terms of reference and timng agreed with DA.
Seed Supply Seores
3.22         The supply of quality seed to farmers would be improved by strengthening a
representive cross-ection of the seed industry comprising 10 provincia seed companies, 14
prefetual/municipal seed companies and 41 county seed companies.
3.23         The overall management of the seed company program would be undertaken by
the NSS, which would coordinate and supervise all provincial level acies and amrange for
overseas and in-country training, overseas study tours and technical assistance in collaboration
with the central Project Management Office (PMO). At provincial level, the provinci seed
company would set up a technical working group of all participating seed companies in the
provin  to coordinate project activities. Individual companies would manage their own
programs. The roles and responsibilities of the seed institutions at different levels in the system
would be redefined. The NSS would also niiate commercial developmeft of the seed industry,
to be implemented by stages. Three to four county seed companies would be selected as 'pilot
projects" for the commercalization of the seed industry, and a consultant would be engaed to



-24 -
assis in drawing up plans for ntrcounty seed trade, as well as establhing proper accounig
sym  for use in setting seed prioes. Assurances were obined that a pilot program for
conmercdalization  the seed lndustty woud be sulbWd to IDAfor reiew by July1, 1994 and
implmnted thereafter as agreed with the Associaon.
3.24         The proposed facilities at the various seed companies/stations have been based
on a careful assessment of needs of each company. Special attention would be given to the
anticipated throughput of seeds. Complete sets of seed processing and packdng equipment are
proposed for each uit and would include: an airsceen and indent cylinder cleaner, a grvity
table, a chemical applicator, a packaging machine, elevators, dust extraction equipment and
electrical power supply. Ihe pacddng equipment should range from 0.5 kg to 50 kg and include
both plastic and power packs. The gravity table would only be provided, where necessary, for
the production of basic or foundation seeds. Construction of additional concrete drying floors
would also be undertaken (500 m2 of floor area per prefecture station and 1,000 r2 per county
company, including 100 mn2 of office space and 100 ni2 seed shop).
3.25         Ihe project would support the construction of seed storage facilities to augment
those which already exist in seed statons/companlies at all levels. Cold room facilities would
be constructed at provincial seed stations for storage of breeder seed (40 e2 of floor area) and
at prefecural seed stations for storage of foundation seed (100 m2 of floor area). Cmnty seed
company warehouses for commercial seed would be increased by 750 m2lcompany to
accommodate the anticipated increases in production and the strategic storage of hybrid cultivars
required by government policy.
3.26         The seed regulatory function and associated testing would be separated
adminstratively from the seed production system and built up as an independent service (see
paras. 3.64-3.65). However, seed testg facilities for purposes of intenal quality control would
be established (or improved as the case may be) in all prefecture seed stations and county seed
companies to monitor seed quality from preharvest through to the point of sale to farmers. The
equipping of seed laboratories with a full range of instruments for seed sampling, moisture
testing and 1,000 grain weight, germiation and physical purity deteminations would be
standardized nationally. In addition, county level laboratories would be equipped to undertake
varietal purity detminations by biochemical means, in order to determine the level of hybridity
of hybrid seed of certain crops (especially coM). Laboratory buildings are generally available
at seed companies and no funds for buildings would be provided.
3.27         Training and Technical Asstan   The project would assist the management
and teclhical development of personnel at all levels. iernational traiig  would be provided
at a recognized university for two senior staff members from the National Seed Station (NSS)
to stdy macromanagement of the seed industry, leading to a M.Sc degree (24 p.m.) A special
training in seed enterprise management would be designed for county seed company managers
at a university in Thailand (10 p.m.). Two specialy selected seed analysts would be sent to the
Danish lttute of Seed Testing to gain experience in seed laboratory establishment and the
development of quality control systems (12 p.m.). Local taining at M.Sc, B.Sc and diploma
levels in all aspects of the seed industry would be provided for 264 individuals. These courses
would be held at agricultural universities and colleges in Chia. Technical assistance for
instiMional development would be provided for (a) quality control (10 p.m.), (b) seed
producdon (10 p.m.), (c) seed company man_aent in financia and accounig matters
(20 p.m.); this would include the operation of microcomputers provided under the project and



- 25 -
training in both the tchnical and business aspects of seed enterprise management, and (d) seed
processing-design and construction of new processing facilities. The terms of reference for tis
training progra  was agreed upon at negotations.
Lvestodk Swvice
3.28         Is component would include: (a) the strengening of livestock field seices
and (b) investms in livestock support activides. Trainig programs for national and provincial
subcomponens, and a schedule of intenaional technical assistance inputs is provided in A
3.  The livestock services component would cover nine provinces, 18 prefectres or
municipalities, 56 countdes, and 308 owns p.
3.29          eri       on. The core organizational change would be the amalgamation
of 23 existing amintrtive units in MOA's Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
Services and National General Station of Anima Husbandry Into four overseeing Divisions of
Animal Production, Animal Health, Livestock Support Services and Administration. Animal
Producdon and Animal Health would become more balanced adminisraive counterparts (in
favor of animtnl production), supported by common service and administaive unis. Two
internationay  recruited consultants, working with local counterparts and supervised by the team
leader of the DAH restruct    mission (para. 3.3), would be recruited for up to two person-
months each to study two selected provinces and the central DAH. The resultng report was
approved by DAH and approved by IDA at negotiations. I wi form the basis for reorganization
of DAH.
Uvestock leld Services
3.30         AIma Husbandry and Vderinary Service Centr Networlk  The project
would strengthen the livetock field senices at the national, provincial, prefectural, county and
township levels through the development of a network of Animal Husbandry and Veteinary
Service Centers (AHVSCs) at each level. At the national level, NAHVSC facilities (6,970 ml)
would be constructed to house: (a) a technical traing center ( association with the proposed
NATEC headquarters), a data management center, an audiovisual and media communications
unit, and an audiovisu  van for the production and mutiplication of livestock production
teaching materials, livestock extension, infomaion systms and audiovisual preparaon, (b) a
national veterinary reference laboratory (1,000 m) to be located at the E wU, and (c) a
Livestock-Plant Genetic Resource Center.
3.31         The NMHVSC tranng center would contain al ncessary facilities, (kItchen/
dining rooms, seminar rooms, libary, etc.) to meet the needs of 30 trainees and five trainers.
Both county and prefectre staff would receive a portion of their training at this center.
Incrementa staff nputs at AHVSCs would include audiovisual specialists and computer managers
to run the data maagent units. Assistac would be provided in developing location-specific
data management software.
3.32         Te Na4onal Vetrny D1agosdc Reference L boratory would be built on the
campus of BAU to serve as a reference resource for provia veeinary diagnostic laboratories
and would include pathology, bacwtiology, virology, serology, parasitology, biochemistry and
media preparatstizaon secdons. The laboratory would also house a national disease
Investigaionunit and a library. A director and laboratory staff (5 postgraduate and 10 graduate



.26 -
technicians) would be recruited, and the necessary equipment and a desk top computer would
be supplied. Vehicles would be provided for field investigation work.
3.33         At the proWncida level, nine AHVSCs would be developed to include: a 200 mu
veteinary diagnostic laboratory with postmortem facilities; a training center able to
accommodate 40 resident trainees; a data processing office with a personal computer; an
extension media preparation unit; a combined feed and veteinary drug quality control
laboratory, offices and equipment storage facilities. Appropriate audiovisual equipment, office
and training equipment and laboratory equipment including a personal computer, would be
provided. Vehicles would be provided for field investigation and training purposes. The
provincial laboratory would engage in similar, but less sophisticated, diagnostic work as the
national certer and provide practical training to prefecture and county level laboratories.
3.34         Teams would be established at the provincial level to plan a livestock adaptive
research progm  and integrated livestock extension services, focussing particularly on the
devepimnent of appropriate forage, animal husbandry and integrated crop/livestock production
technologies and worldng closely with the species evaluation program to be developed by the
national Genetic Resource Center (para. 3.47). Two pilot areas would be selected for integrated
crops and livestock extension services. Proposals for the integration of the two services would
be discussed wiffi IDA at negotiations.
3.35         Prefecture evel project support would be confined to about two prefecture
AXVSCs per project province (except Beijing, Guangxi, Heilongjiang, Sichuan and Shaghai).
Each existing center would be expanded to include a 240 m2 veterinary diagnostic laboratory
with postmortem facilities; a training center; a combined feed and veterinary drug quality control
laboratory; a data processing office; an extension media preparation unit; and offices and storage
facilities. The laboratory would be equipped to carry out routine diagnostic bacteriology,
parasitology, serological tests and simple biochemical analysis in support of disease investigations
by prefecture and county field staff and routine disease surveillance. EU-SA (enzyme-linked
immunosorbent assay) diagnostic kits would be used whenever appropriate to improve accuracy
and minimize laboratory overhead. Specimens requiring more sophisticated examination or
analysis would be forwarded to the provincial laboratory.
3.36         The prefecture diagnostic and disease investigation staff would assist the
provincial staff in epidemiology and disease surveilance programs by coordinating the field work
of county veterinary teams. County-based adaptive research programs would be supervised at
prefecture level by a team selected from existing DAH staff and universities. As at provincial
level, prefectural AHVSC staff would be equipped for an applied forage research program.
3.37         At the county lvel, each AHVSC would include: a 140 im2 veterinary diagnostic
laboratory with postmortem facilities; a training center accommodating 30 trainees and five
trainers, with associated kitchen, dining, library and other facilities; a data processing office; an
extesion media preparation unit, and service areas and facilities.
3.38         County laboratores would be equipped to carry out simple diagnostic techniques
in bacteriology (excluding culture work), routine parasitology, slide agglutination tests, ELISA
tests for surveillance work, and the use of suitable diagnostic kits for field investigations. The
anma health and production serices at count level, in collaboration with township staff,
would be responsible for implementation of most of the field work for the veterinary diagnostic,



-27 -
disease surveillance, and livestock mnitoring programs. They would also be responsible for
county-level adptive research and exteion activities, supported with in-service technical and
extension training of staff, vehicles for traiing and field work, training, adaptive research and
forage research equipment and increment recurrent costs. The project would also provide 50
m2 for animal breeding units at pig Al semen collection and cattle breeding centers, and
laboratory equipment for routine semen examination, and storage and sterilization of instruments.
3.39         The cold dcin vaccine dWbudon system would be rehabilitated and extended
under the project to ensure that vaccines are maintand at the cofrect temperature from their
point of production to farm level. Freezers and refrigerators would be provided at prefecture,
county and township levels, ice boxes and vaccine storage containers at county and township
levels and a refrigerated van ad, where appropriate, a mobile cold storage laboratory unit at
prefecture level.
3.40         Ihe project would support pwldp Ietoc serices through investments in
towns-hlp AHVSCs. To encourage the trend towards cost recovery for services and increasing
commercialization of these centers, some could be regstered as enterprises to make them eligible
for business loans, with any future investments based on credit from the Agricultural Bank of
China. Township staff would receive comprehensive training at county level in such sklls as
clinical diagnosis, sampling techniques, treatment, and farm hygiene. This would be backed up
with strong support by county level staff for planning and superiion of livestock extension and
disease control programs. Farmer training would also be provided to selected project
demonstration households and Fam    Associations at both couty and township levels. It is
envisaged that township level extension and veterinary services would evenully be provided on
a conual basis by township livestock cet enterprises. Vilage farmer technicims would
be provided with biweekly 112 to 1 day training sessions at county or township govenment
expense.
3.41         Training and Technical Assistance for Livetock Field Services would include
substantal tri     inputs in the form of domestic and international study tours, technical
affliadons, post gaduate progms and in-service traing. Much of the training would focus
on animal health, animal production, livestock extension, and management pertaining to the
provincia livestock  upport programs adminstered by the AHVSCs at the provincial,
prefectul, county and township levels. The total training program for field services woud
encompass 8,537 p.m. (Annes 3!.
3.42         Domestc traing would consist of 521 p.m. of study tours related to improved
animal health and production technology; 2,832 p.m. of training in livestock exteion
methodology for field extesion agents; an equal alotmt to the establishment, through the
AHVSCs, of a livestock production/disease monioring ad evaluation system; 177 p.m. in 1-
year postgraduate training; 1,482 p.m. have been reserved for training activities to be deterined
during the course of the project. A total of 77 p.m. has been allocated for the training of
taining managers.
3.43         Technkcl AssAsc for Ins aIrl Delpment has been allocated to brig
specaists in a range of animal disease and production and feed quality control specialties to the
provinces to provide group training to local speciaists. A total of 15 p.m. has been reserved
for this purpose; 5 p.m. of this allocation is to be based on further need assessments. Local



-28-
tdical assstuce would be provided though 61 p.m. of computer   ramming in support
of the establishmet of a livestock prodcdon/disas Infomation system which would serve to
pride base line and other data for ilvestigatIon, reatory and statstical purposes.
lvestodck Spport Aedvites
3.44         Under thi submponent, he project would finance the development of the
following seleced productlactivities in support of the field services:
3.45         SWF Egg Producion. An SPF egg production ficility would be established at
the Nanjing Vteriny Bioroduct and Instrument Plan  The project would fund the building
for the egg production plant (1,555 mi), an air condtoning unit; the specialized equipment
necessary for the egg production, and the laboratory equipment requied for the routine testig
of birds.
3.46         Ivaetk-Plant Genetic RoreoI   Center. This Center would support and
coordint breed improvement progrms at natona level and would be responsible for livestock
ad forage germplasm strage, evaluation and development  Ihe project would fund the
construction of a center at the Beijing Institute of Animal Science of the CAAS, which would
inude animal embryo/semen and forage germplasm storage banks; smen, embryo and forage
germplasm lbrtries, and a data management unit. Laboratory and liquid nitogen equipment
would be supplied. Vehicles would be provided for in-seice training and field programs.
Incremental staffing would include a computer manager, two biometicians and an animal
geneticist
3.47         A new Ltwato* Products TesdngLaboratory and Veteay Iuwnn Testing
Laboratoy would be established within the Nadonal AHVSC to ensure the qualirty and
regibtro of livesCk production eqipme  and other products to be used in all MOA
faciites.  hese functons were heretofre carried out on a limited scale by other, non-MOA
inSst .
3.48         IhIng and Teccl Assanefor L vesock S*pport Servce is dikled in
domestc and  teraona  raining, and the provision of inteaional technical assistance.
Trainig involves the national AHVSC, the two quality control centers, the national vetediny
diagosdc referen  laboratory, the geneic resource cent, and the SPF unit.
3.49         Domestc Trainng. Management trang, in the form of senior managemeat
traiing for cente directs (200 p.m.), laboratory managemt (40 p.m.), project management
by nation  PMO staff (80 p.m.), livestock production management for national progrm
dieto  (100 p.m.), and computer management (200 p.m.), would represent an important
component Training in a range of tebnical topics rdated to disese investigation (75 p.m.),
livestock extenion (300 p.m.), feed production (80 p.m.) and laboratory technology (200 p.m.)
would provide s     upgrding for nationa center tehical stas. Specialized Waining in
getmplasm pr        technology (32 p.m.), advanced epidemiology (15 p.m.), SPF egg
poduction nd monit    (10 p.m.), and fedlphamc       quality control tesng (45 p.m.)
would spcifcally beneft tehnia staff in dignosdc and quality control centers, and would be
nked to innatona technica assistance inputs to prove foow up support.



-29-
3.50        Tntnanal  rludIg. A tot of 217 p.m. would be allocated to overseas
trining, ncudn 34 p.m. in stdy tours to international techmical Insttutes. Retrnees would
serve as taner trainers, so that overseas training skills can be then spread through the multiplier
efect. Short term technical atahments (105 p.m.) to be carried out in a single location wowd
serve the same fmcton. Overs B.Sc program  would include 24 p.m.; SPF training 4 p.m.,
and quality contrl training, 50 p.m.
3.51         Internatonal Techical AsIstanee. Under the livestock support services
program, a total of 25 p.m. of interational technical assistance for Institudonal development has
been allocated to the national centers for feed and veery parmaccals quality control (12
p.m.); SPF egg production (9 p.m.); laboratory managemen, disease investigation, animal
breen and forage development (4 p.m.).
Animal and Plant Quarantine Srices
3.52         This component would aim to ewpose Cinas quaranie services to modern
quarantine concepts and practices used elsewere, improve their access to qurantine-related
information in other countries and streamline routine quarantiae corol prcedures. Ihe
quarantane component consists of: (a) establishment of a computeized quarantine in ation
system, (b) upgrig of 18 provincial  arane  laboratories, and (c) computizaton of
Shenzlen quantne enty points and development of the Dalian Plant Quaranine Isolation
station.
3.53         EvaluatIon of Quarantine law and Practlce  Two inteational specialists,
one each for plant and animl quarantine would be recruied and collaborate with local
countpars to evaluate the recenly issued quaratine laws and reated practices, and make
recommendations to the NAPQS as to their compatibility with internationa quarantine laws. In
addition, the overseas training program would ensure that trainees gain maximum exposure to
new quarantine management techniques. Assuracs wre obined that, by December31, 1993,
the Borrowr would prepa  and fwrish to IDA a plan of action to ensure that qwarandne
procedures are consistent with best iernadonaipractkes, and hereafe 1nplemem the program
as agreed with IDA.
3.54         Quaantn  nformation. A comprehensive computrized dat base of tncal
and regulatory information to cater for the requiement of the NAPQS is included under the
Management comPonet (An      . Induded in this system would be access to the technical
inormaon from he Comonwealth Agricultur Bureau (CAB) Abstr    and Silver Platter
Infornm&ion Retrieval System (SPIRS) software.
3.55         Equipment.  Equipment requirements for routine diagnosdc and support
acdvities would be supplied to the NAPQS and the central laboratories of the 18 provincial
quarantie services proposed for upgrading. Funds would be made available for the purchase
of adtanced equipment to be used in developing and refiing tecdniques for testng plants and
abnials and their products.
3.56         PlantQuntneFadlitIes. Existing,preexitandpo etryquanefaclties
would be upgraded and eopded to enable the secure Importation of more improved plan
genetic material. The Dalian Plan Quaantine Station would be improved through the erecton
of three addional Insectscreed, eme-controlled quarantine grenhouses totalling



- 30 -
300  2 and three additional screenhouses totalling 400 n2. A headhouse of 100 W2 would be
provided to serve the three greenhouses. Thirty quaranine entry points of the Huanggang
substation under the NAPQS Shenzhen quarane services Inflrastructure would be equipped with
computerized data information and networklng systems.
3.57         Trainng and techncal assistance for plant and anfmal quaranine services
Includes overseas ad domestic training, and international technical assistamce. Training would
be provided in all aspects of quarantine management including quarantine policy nd
management, risk assessment and management, establishment and monitoring of control
procedures, development of appropriate performance indicators and review mechanisms, priority
assessment and resource allocation. Officers would also be trained in techical quarantine testing
skills and the interpretation of test results. Technically qualified middle management quaante
officers would be sent on study tours to countries with modern quarantine practices and facilities.
Based on a program of training to pass on the experience gained by these officers on their study
tours to other officers in the service, they would conduct workshops to discuss its application
to China.
3.58         Overseas trahnng would include 41 p.m. in quarantine management; 310 p.m.
in technical training, and 104 p.m. in study tour. Local training would comprise 1,350 p.m.
of in-service training for project and nonproject staff; 2 p.m. in training management, and 100
p.m. domestic technical assistance. A total of 10 p.m. of international tecdical assltance has
been allocated of which 2 p.m. would be reserved for one plant and one animal quarantine
specialist each, to evaluate and recommend of the legal aspects of quatine bylaws, clauses and
states.
Regulatory Control of Pesticides and Fertilizers
3.59         PestIcides. The pesticide analysis laboratories of the Institute for Control of
Agrochemicals (ICAMA), an institute under MOA, ad ten corresponding provincial institutes
for control of Agrochemicals (ICAs) l/ would be upgraded with replacement and
supplementary equipment The equipment for ICAMA would improve the analytical capability
and capacity of its analysis, pesgiide residue and biodetmination laboratories.
3.60         A central information service and network would be established at ICAMA to
service the provincal laboratories, and for the preparation of publication of training materis.
For this purpose, the project would fund the purchase of microcomputers, modems, laser and
dot matrix printers, facsmile machine, photocopy machine and ancillary equipment. A vehicle
would be provided for technical supervision and inspections. Provision is also made for one-
month in-service training courses for three ICAMA staff at MOA's central computer unit, in the
use of computers, data base management, networking and information exchange.
3.61         The seven provincial ICA laboratories would also be provided with appropriate
supplementary analytical equipment to enable them to undertake the full range of pesticide
analyses. A computer would be supplied to each provincial ICA for development of a data base
on pesticide testing and for networking and information exchange with ICAMA. One-month in-
service taining courses by ICAMA are proposed for six ICA staff per province in analytical
I/    In the sams provinces selected for upgading the ATEC services.



-31 -
techiques. Three ICA staff from each provinre would also undergo the same computer taini
by MOA staff as their ICAMA counterparts.
3.62         FertUzer. The labortries of the Soil Testng and Plant Anaysis Center
(STPAC) wihin the Institute of Soils and Fertilizers (ISP) of the CAAS would be supplied with
addional equipment and accmorles for upgrading exist  equipment. The STPAC would also
be provided with a microcomputer, dot matrix printer and facsimile machine for setting up a data
base on fertilizer analysis results and a communication network with provincial ferdlizer testing
laboratories. In order to facilkate its expanded program of fertilizer tesig, monitoring and
supervision, a vehicle would also be provided. The provincia soils and fertilizer testing
laboratories in the ten provinces in which agrotechnical services are being strengthened, would
be upgraded through the supply of additional equipment, computers and vehicles. The
incrmental recurrent costs of the expanded fertflizer ting program would also be met by the
project. Traing for one month In analytical techniques would be financed for three staff
members from each provincial laboratory at the relevant PAAS or local agriculturai university.
Staff ftom STPAC and three staff from each of the provinces would undergo one-month courses
of computer training at the MOA's central computer center.
Regulatory Seed Quality Control
3.63         The regulatory control of seed quality is being set up as an independent service
of the Nationa Seed Testing Station (NSTS). Operating as a statutory requirement of the Seed
law, a network of seed testng laboratories would be established at the provincial and municipal
level. Random sampling would be carried out, the iitial target being 10 percent of the seed lots
offered for sale. These samples would then be evaluated ir the laboratories financed under the
project. lhe development of these laboratories would be a major part of the duties to be cardied
out by the seed analysts who are to receive training as part of the program.
3.64         Ihe NSTS would be responsible for the establishent of a seed inspectorate.
Ulimately this organization would consist of technical and admini ve staff at the provincial
and municipal level. In the inital stages of the project the NSTS would have to select the
regions, provinces and municipalities where this can begin, as due to the shortage of trained
personnel it would be impossible to operate effectively in al the provinces included in the
project The NSTS would also be responsible for developing and coordinating the system of
quity control under which this inspectorate would be expected to operate, taking coiane
of the seed law. Laboratory buildings, ancillary facilities, essential tesing and office information
equipme, wwould be provided at each of the provincial seed testing stations. The Nationa Seed
Testng Center would also be provided with 300 m& of laboratory buildings, essenal seed testig
and office iformation equipment, and vehicles would be purchased to enable the  spate
staff to carry out their duties. Training for these technicians would be part of the quality control
program outined above. At the end of a five year period the inspectorate would have the
following typical field staff complements-a manager, secretary and six agronomists/inspectors
at the provincial level, a manager, four inspectors and two agronomists at the municipal level.
The regulatory quality control program would be managed and coordinated by the NSTS.
RIlaqtory Livetock Feed and Drug Control
3.65         Uvestock Feed Quality Control. The China National Center for Quality
Supervision and Tesaing of Feed (CNCQSTF) and its analogue for pharmaceutical quality control



-32 -
would share commcm laborory resources at the provnl level and be managed as single units.
The China National Bureau for Te cal Supervion (CNBTS) would delegate its auihority for
manaing feed quality control programs to CNCQSTF.
3.66         Tho CNCQSTF would be provided with 3,000 mn headquarte  space (icluding
office, library, data processing room, lecur hall, audiovisua  om, lecture room, service
areas), and 2,400 in' of laboratory for a research center. Labowry equipment, office and
audiovisual equipment and a mobile test laboratory van would be Anded. Vehides would be
provided for adminitrtive, training and field sampling purposes.
3.67         At the proWvndal kwl, veterinary products and feed quality control services
would be amnilgamated within the same laboratory faclies. Feed qualit control services in
each of the nine provinces covered by the project's livestock services would be improved throuigh
construction and fiumnishing of common laboratory buildings and provision of laboratory
equipment, which, where appropriate, would also serve pharm cal quality control purposes
(paras. 3.70-3.71), and a desk-top computer.
3.68         Selected mwadpaltyprecwure level feed quality control centers would have
laboratories constructed and equipped for proximate analysis of feedstuffs. A desk-top computer
would be installed and staff mobility for factory visits improved through provision of a jeep.
3.69         Quality Control of Veterinay Bloproducts and Pharmaceutcals. At the
nadional kvel, the bioproducts testing facilities of NQCCVBP would be upgraded by the
insaation of a modem air fitration system, incubaton rooms and a reftigeration system. A
new building would be constructed and furnished for prm cal quality control work by the
NQCCVBP to replace the existng dilapidated facilities. Equipgmt would be provided for both
the bioproducts and pharmaceutical testig laboratories to enable a wiler range of tests, including
tests for toxicity and residues and animal tests for efficacy, to be carried out. A laboty
animal building would also be constucted, and tro n  for staff visits to producdon plants
for inspection and traing purposes.   Provincial laboratory-based inspectrs would be
responsible for random sampling programs. This component would be contingent on the
delegation by CNBIS of its authority for veterinary product quality contrul to the NQCCVBP.
3.70        Pro4nclal paceutical quality ontrol centers would be provided with
laboratory space, in combination with that of the provincial feed quality control centers, and with
equipment, which would be shared with the latter. A vehicle would be allocated to each
provincial center for training and sampling. For industry in-service training, 25 p.m. have been
allocated for feed and veterinay quality control programs.
Project Man ent
3.71         The central Project Management Office (PMO), which would coordine the
implementation of the project, would be provided with the necessary office equipment,
computers and transport. Provincial Projet Managemenet Offices (PPMOs) would receive more
modest complements of office equipment, compute  and vehicles but, where needed, small
office buildings (150 in) would be constructed. Tecbnical assistance for institutional
development (29 p.m. for international consultants and 12 p.m. for local consultants) would be
financed to provide a senior advisor and projec monitoring speciis to the PMO, to draw up
a detailed Implementation schedule for the project, to develop and insl a project monitoring



.33 -
system and to sist In carrying out a mid-term reviw of the projdct. Part of the foreign TA
(9 p.m.) woud be held in  serve for fite needs. Provision woud also be made fo
consuancy fes for specialist on the Technical Advio  Pad CrAP) to be set up to asist the
Project Magement Office.
3.72         Project impleme aio,   pervision, moning and management sklls of
natonal MOA [especially the Depatment of Extnal Economic Relations (DEER)] and
provinca staff would be upgraded through 30 p.m. of ovea training, 220 p.m. of national
training and 220 p.m. of in-service training.
3.73         Human reurce development would be a key project acty in proviig skills
necs   for the achievement of project objectives and creatirg the capacity withi the MOA
to sustain quality services to the sector. Ite project would therefore: (a) provide training in
trainin program management for Trainig Coordinators (s); and (b) provide ncentives for
staff to participate in training programs. An= 3 cotains a summay of training and education
activities for each component together wfith phasing plans. Detailed descipdons of proposed
trainin programs may be found in the secon describing the major components. Asura
wre obined at negotaonstw aUl project local and owrseas tnig, study tors, adaplve
research and extension programs, and techn   assine shal be canted ow in accordha
with pla  agreed with JDA, and the Project Manageme  Offlce wouldnsh to DA,fr revew
and pp    , annuoplans by Sqepte*be 30 of each year durig project  n .
D. STAUS OF PRARATION
3.74         The project is at an advanced stage of preparation. Ihe tedmical, satal level
compolvmts (Quarantne, Qualiy Control and Regatory Services) as well as the national level
ItAerventi  for Agrotechnical Extension, Seed Supply and Livestock Services have been
prepared in finad form. Preliminy designs for buildings, drafg of opaonal protools and
memoranda of undedig relating to dational centers, and prepration of workflow plans for
quality conul laboratoris have been completed. Midaities for linking DOA, DAH, and
NAPQS with MOA and the reo           of NATEC have also been finalized.
E. IM    M ATION SCHEDJL
3.75         The project would be implemented over a six-year period beginning early 1993.
Detailed umple     schedules are given in Chart 3. Prliminary designs for -ill works
under th project would be fnalized in December 1992, and conuction migt bgin in Jamuy
1993. Bid documens for about 50 percent of the equipment are expected to be completed before
negoiations, and bid iviton for the first phase of eupme pruement won4d begin in mid-
1993. A second phase of equipme procurement would begin In late 1993. Training activites
would be epected to start immediately following neation  nd consultant services by mid-
1993.
F. Cosr ESlIAMES
3.76         The total project cost, including physical and price cotigencies, is esmated
at Y 1,337.4 milion ($238.3 million) of which the fo     excanmge compon   woud be
$122.6 milion or 51.5 percent of the total. The total project cost excluding reserved
prorment is esmated at Y 1,242 million ($220.8 million) of whih the foreign exchange



-34 -
component would be $109.5 millionor 49.6 perent of the total. Ihe Costs at nadonal level have
been estimated In final form  for a  project components. Cost esdmates at provincial and lower
levels also have been finaized fir the crops, livestock, seeds, quality corol, quarantne and
management services components.
3.77             The base cost estimates are computed from unit prices prevailing at the time of
appraisal in June 1992 adjusted to 1993 price levels, and on the then existing exchange rate of
Y 5.45. No duties or taxes are included in the project costs. The total project cost includes
physical contingencies at 10 percent on all items (except for technical assistance, local salaries,
and maintenance of buOidings, vehicles, and equipment, for which they are zero). Price
cont encies are based on annual inteational prie escalaion rates for all goods and services
of 3.7 percent for 1993-98 when expressed in US dollars. When expressed in Yuan, annual
price escalation rat   of 6 percent were used for 1993-98.  Total contngencies amount to
20 percent of the total project costs.
Table 3.1: PROJF Cosr SumMARY
TOCO          8'000 S                              Forun  X Total
Loal   Yordu         total     Local   lorlu    Setotal   *eobane bae costa
A. CroIb.tenaou
1. National hgrotechnica  26,934.0  28,162.0    53,096.0   4,942.0   5,167.0  10,109.0    51.1    5.1
2. Agrot.cnicl Igt.
Dev.               190,136.0 208,913.3   399,049.3  34X887.4  38*3,3.1  73,220.5    52.4    36.8
Subtotal             217.070.0 237.075.3   454.145.3  39.829.4  43.500.1  93.529.5    52.2    41.6
9. Sg
1. Se4 Supply           46,012.2  46,642.7    92,654.9   8,442.3   8,558.3  17,000.8    50.3      8.5
2. Seed Quality Control   19*774.9  18,514.3    38,289.2   3,628.5  35397.1   7,025.6   48.4      3.5
$Ubtotal              65.7*1.1  65.157.0   130,944.1  l..071.0   1.955.4  14.26.4     49.8     12.1
C. ivwe k
1. eld 1Av.etoek
Sernice            179,506.5  186,99.?   366,502.2  32,937.0  34,311.1  67,248.1   51.0     33.8
2. iveatook Support
Setvrie            20,552.6  20,8e5.6    41*438.2   3,771.1   3,852.2   7,603.3    50.4      3.8
Subtotal             200X059.1 20t.bl$.3   4075940&4  M.7TO,1  f8.143.3  74551.4      51.0     3J.6
D. QualitV Control         18.017.0  19.492-6    37.509.6   3X3060   3.576.6   6.*S2.6    5.        35
S. Quarantine Service.     21.o78.0  32.764.0    54.642.0   4.014.3   6031.6  10.025.9     00       5.0
otal Baa Costs       522.81.2 562,370.2 1.085.181.4  95.92848 103.187.0 199.115.8    51.8    100.0
hysical coAtiouie         42,181.7  45,853.4    88,035.3   7,739.4  $8413.5  16,152.9     52.1      8.1
P ce oln*eaie             85,434.7  78,795.1   164,229.8  11,988.0  11,036.5  23,024.6    47.9     11.6
Total Project Coate    650.427.6 6*87.018.9  1.337.446.5  115.656.2 122.637.1   MM8.29.$  51.5    119.7
3.78              Over three fourths of the total base cost of the project is accounted for by the
Agrotechical Extension (42 percen) and Livestock Service (38 percent) components.  Other
components with a significant share of the base costs are Seed Supply (12 percent) and Quality
Control (3.5 percent) and Quarantn  Services (5 percent). Seventy-five percent of total baseline
costs are investment costs, of which 23 percent are for equipment, 28 percent for buildings and
anotier 11 percent for training. Technical assistance acounts for 1 percent of the total base
costs. All project costs are incrental. Incremental rec et costs (25 percent) are made up
largely of operation and maitenance items (16 percent) and consumables (7 percent). Estimated
costs are summaized in Table 3.1 and detailed in Aanx 2t Table 1.



- 35 -
G. FINARN
3.79         Bank Grotp financing would be an IDA Credit of SDR 83.7 million
($115 million equivaet) and would cover 48 prce  of tot project costs or 52 percent of tot
project costs excluding reserved prcrement. Ihe remaining 52 percent would be financed by
cetral, provincial, prefctureumicipal and county governments. Ihe contributions from each
source are as follows:
$ mUllon
(a)   IDA Credit                          115.0
(b)    Centr, provincial, prefecura
and county governments            123.3
H. PftocRMErr
3.80         Procurement arrangements are summaized in the following table:
Table 3.2: PROCURDENT PROFLE
($ million)
Procurement method
Project element                    ICB       LCB    Other        NIF    Total
Civil works                        -        64.3      2.8        -       67.1
(32.2)   (1.4)               (33.6)
Equipment and materials           43.9       6.0      7.3        -       57.2
(38.7)    (3.0)   (3.7)                (45.4)
Vehicles                          15.6       -        -         11.1/a, 26.7
(14.0)                         (0.0)  (14.0)
Training and technical
assistance                       -         -      28.0         -       28.0
(22.0)              (22.0)
Management and operating
co0t8                            -         -        -         59.3lb  59.3
(0.0)   (0.0)
Total                       59.5      70.3    38.1        70.4   238.3
(52.7)   (35.2)  (27.1)        (0.0) (115.0)
No: Fies in parenthes are amounts to be financed by EDA Credt.
NIF: Not IDA Fhnaced. Figurs incude contngendes.
& Resrved proement of 660 vehicles valued $11.1 million.
&  Indude operaion and m nau  of 660 vehiles valued $6.4 mimon.



- 36 -
3.81         ail Works ($67.1 millon). All woks in the project are too small to be of
inerest to foreign bidders. Pacaging has been done as much as is practicable; however, all the
works are smal, scheduled over the six ye   life of theprojecta dscatteted over the 12
provinc  involved in the project. None would exceed $1.0 million and the aveag  cost per
work would be $24,000. Most are smail bufldings that would serve as offices and other support
service at the provincial, prefecte as wel as county levels. None would be of interest to
foreign contractors. Approxmely $64.3 milion (96 percnt) of the works wold thus be let
under local competitive bidding (LCB) proedures acceptable to IDA. The remainig $2.8
million (4 percent) are for very small works (less han $15,000 each) that are difficult to
schedule or are in remote areas, and as such, would best be done by county or municipal work
groups through force account work.
3.82         Goods ($83.9 milUon). About 660 vehicles esmated at $11.1 million are
prohibited by government to be imported and would be fully financed by local fius. The
remainin 950 vehicles esdmated at $15.6 million would be procured under ICB procedures.
The vehicles ($15.6 mfilion), stel ($8.0 million), fertlizer ($1.9 million) and the large or
complex equipment ($34.0 million), 80 percent of the goods, wil be procured using ICB
procedures. A margin of preference equal to 15 percent of the c.i.f. price of imported goods
or the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed the domestic
manufacrers on ICB. Contracts cosdng less than $200,000 equivalent may be procured under
LCB procedures acceptable to the Association. The inexpensive basic eqgipment (total $4.5
million) that will be required to equip the over 700 new agkulture support services facilities
will be procured in small quantities near each facility using LCB procedures that we acceptable
to IDA. Specialized laboratory and testiDng equipment (not to exceed $5.3 million in tot) hat
is avaiable ftom only a few suppliers would be procured through limted intenaional bidding
(IB). Small quantities of office supplies, funiure and the very basic equipment (not to exceed
$2.0 miUlion in tot) wfll be procured thwogh shopping. The proement schedule (Chart 5)
shows how the six largest goods packages, totaling $65.1 million, would be scheduled. An
assurance was obtand at negotiaons that te Borrower wold procure abosu 660 whkles
required for te project In accordance with a plan acceptabl to the Associaon and would
funish a draf plan to the Associaon no loa th  Jldy 1, 1993.
3.83         Trainn and TecIcal Assistamce ($28.0 milDon). Theprojectwouldprovide
$24.9 million of trainig and $3.1 million of tecnical assistance (TA). A detaied training and
TA program has been drawn up. Apprwximatly half of the training and TA wiUl be supplied
from overseas. All consultants will be arranged in accordne  with IDA's Guidelines on the
Selection and Use of Consultants.
3.84         AdminitratIon. All goods contracts of $200,000 or more, and civil works
packages over $0.5 milion would be subject to IDA's prior review. This would cover about
80 percent of the goods and 10 percent of the works, and would involve about 12 conacts over
the six-year life of the project. All training and TA contracts (about 15) would also be subject
to prior review by IDA. All other contracts would be subject to selective postaward review.
Ihe China National Instrument Import and Export Cotporation (CNIIE   would be the
procurement agent for the project. CNIEC has previous experience on Bank projects and knows
IDA's requirements. The project will use the model bid documents prepared by MOP and
accepted by IDA. Even though foreign competition is not expected under the above mendoned
LCB procedure, foreign fims would not be prohibited from bidding.



-37 -
L        D
3.85         Disb      s for equipm,  matls, and vehicles would be made at
100 percent of the foreig co for direct imports, 100 percent of loca ex-facy cost for locally
manufactred items, and 75 percent of local expenditures for other Items procured locally.
Diment agaist civi works would be 50 percent of toWal expenditues. Disbursemet for
training, study tours, and consultant services would be at 100 percent of total expenditures.
Disbursements would be made agapst staements of exdium for goods and works contracts,
each costing less than $200,000 equivalent, for civil works under force account and training.
Supportng doc     on would be rened in the Project Office in Beijing and Provincial
PMOs and be made available to IDA supervision missions. In order to provide efficient
disbursement of the credit proceeds, a Special Account would be opened in US dollars in a bank
acceptable to IDA with an authorized allocation of $5 million, the estimated average four-month
disburemt. The Special Accont would be operated and m tined by the Minstry of
Finance (MOF). Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted
monthly or whenever the Special Account is drawn down to 50 percent of its inital deposit,
whichever comes first. In order to facilitate early startup of the project to take advantage of
labor  mabity during the 1992/93 winter season, as well as the restuct    of DAR and
NATEC,rthi Government has proposed to use up to SDR 3.5 million ($4.7 million, 3.9 percent
of the ciit) for retroactive financing of expenditures made between July 1, 1992 and date of
signing of the Development Credit Agreement.
3.86         The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999 and the closing
date would be December 31, 2000. Disbursement experience in China has been favorable and
better than Bank Group and Asia regional averages. The project disbursement profile is
essenmtialy In line with that for previous instiution buRding projects in China (para. 1.30). The
estIm   disbursement shedule is given in Annex 2, Table 6.
3. AccouNs AND AuD1s
3.87         Separate accounts, regarding all project expenditures, would be maintained at
participating project counties and pref s by their respectve project implementtion units or
finace deparmens. Ihese records would be forwarded regularly to the provincial project
management offices (PPMOs). The provincial finance deprtments would assist the PPMOs in
consolidating these accounts and also in mainaining separate aecounts for expenditures at
provincial level. These would aU be audted anmually by the Provincial Audit Bureau within 4
montfs of thi close of the financial year. The PPMOs would forward their accounts to the
centra PMO, which would also receive reglar returns from the Project Implemention Units
at national level (DOA, DAH, NAPQS, CAMS, etc.). The Finance Department of MOA wodd
assist the PMO in comining all these into one consolidated report, with separate accounts for
local expenditures and imports, to be submitted to IDA. Assurances were obtained that (a) the
Specdal AcouW  would be audited by  deaedent audo  acptabk to IDA and the PMO, and
(b) the PAMO and PPMOs would maiain consolated accounts of aU cmponents for annual
audtng by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and the audied accouns together with the
auditor's report wold be sumitd to l A wthin six months of*e dose of eachfinancal year.
Ihe consolidated audit report would contain a sumary of the provincial audit report and
audited accounts of MOA's project expendures. It would include detils of withdrawals from
the Credit Account made on the basi of Staemen of Expediue and the auditor's opinion as
to wheter such withdrawals were against expendire eligible for reit by IDA.



-38-
KI ENVONMERrNTAL bDMACr
3.88         The project would reduce the effects associated with the excessive use of
ferdlizers by promoting more balanced fertilizer recommeions better adapted to local
conditions through Its adptive research program snd by encouragig the application of dosages
tailor-made to farmers' needs (as dermined by its soil testing program). By improving the
quality control of frilizer, the project would also eliminate some of the gueswork involved in
applyig (and ineviably sometime over-applying) ir  ferilize products.
3.89         Ihe environmental problems asocated with the use of pesucides in Chinese
agricultre, though not well documented or quanified, include: (a) excessive use (as in the
Yangzhou county of Jiangsu province where 9 applications of insecticide and fungicide are made
annually on a wheat-rice rotation), (b) widespread use of fake manuactured insecticides or home
made products (e.g., 3 percent solution of carbofuran granules in water) which are dangerous
to crops, naural predtors and humans, (c) use of products dhat are known to be harmful and
banned in other counies (e.g., nitrogen), (d) buildup of pesticide resistance due to
indiscriminae use (e.g., resistance of Heiodds andgera to pyrediroids in cotton-25 sprays per
crop are common), (e) high residue levels in havested crops (e.g., in vegetables), and (t) the
high cost of crop protection due to exclusive dependence on pesticides and lack of information
on economic threshOlds.
3.90         Ihe project would actually reduce the level of pesticide used through the
promodon, by adapdve research and extsion, of ntgrated Pest Management (IPM). This has
been demonstated for example by the FAO program for traiving farmers in IPM, which reduced
pesticide use by 10 percent (and increased profits by 20 percent). Through improved quality
contol and better regulation of the manufacture and distrbution of pesticides, the project would
reduce the use of spuious and dangerous product that now find their way to the market and
would regulate the use of active ingredients used in the manufature of pesticides. The capacity
to conduct pesticide residue analysis is being built int the strengthened analytical capacity of
ICAMA's laboratory network to better monitor residues in agricultural products. Finaly, by
promotig the economic threshold concept for spraying and safety in the handling and we of
pesticides, the agrotehnical extension services would furtier reduce tie envonmenal hazards
of pesicide use.



-39 -
4
PROJECT ORGANIZATON AND MANAG
A. PROJrCT ORGAZANTON
4.1          Ihe Ministry of Agricture (MOA) would have ovea  responsibility for
implementng the project. A Project Leading Group (PLO) has been established to oversee its
management. Ihe PLG would provide senior management suppott for the project, dedde policy
matters, solve intream a o or interage_ncyproblems, and would meetpiodically to review
progress and resolve problems that may aise in project implem enion. 'he PLG consists of
a vice Minister as Leader, the Director of MOA's General Planing Department as Deputy
Leader, the heads of MOA's concened departments and agencies (DEER, DOA, DAR, NAPQS,
CABTS, the Departm  of Finance, Department of Admion, Deptent of Peonnel
and Labor, CAAS, Infrmation Center and the AgriclEural Eneering Inste), and
repesentatives frm the State Planning Commission and MOF's Department of Agicultura
Finace (see Chart 2).
4.2          At the cenr  level, the DOA, DAH, NAPQS and CABTS would implement
their respectiveprojectcompones, wih aremostly involvedwiththeirlinefunmcdons. PtoJect
Implementation Units (PlUs) have been established in each of the units to oversee the execution
of its paticular component A central Project Mangement Office (PMO), staffed by personmel
from DEER and other releva  agencies, has been established hi the MOA to oordinaW the
activNies of the project on a day-to-day basis, monitor progress in execution of the project and
bring any problems ta arise to the notice of the PLO for prompt resolution. The PMO wod
be headed by a Director and asstd by two Deputy Diecors (from DEER and Planing).
Among PMO's spcfic res;posibilities would be to: (a) amist in drawing up impl
schedules for the project components; (b) coordinae project activities with the line agencie at
the nationl level and with provin   institutions; (c) arage combined prouement under ICB
or LIB; (d) coordinate insuiona devdeopment aspects, particulady in respect of organiational
restrcturing, overseas traling and tecdnical training, tecnical assistance, rough vropriate
commitees constituted for those purposes; (e) assist and coordinate the preparation of
applications for withdrawal of the IDA credit; (f) ensure that consolidated accounts, audits and
progress repors are prepared and submitted in tme; (g) aminister the Special Account; h)
undertale project monhoring and supervision (see AnMo 8); and (') arrange for a mid-term
evaluation of the project as well as regular evaluations of project impact
4.3          The Ministry of Fina    would be responsible for the financial management of
the project and maitaiin g consolidated project accouns. The Administration DEptment,
MOA, would be responsible for the civil work wie the Agriculmral Engineering Inst
would prepare the designs. Ihe Adminion and Personnel and Labor Departments would
assist the PMO (and relevant technical deatmen  and prwvincial ins ons) undertake the



-40 -
proposed instiutional development actities. The insftiute of Agricultura Economics of the
CAAS, supported by consultant as needed, would carry out the project evaluation, including
the mid-term evaluation. A Technical Advisory Panel (TAP) comptg experts from different
technical agencies would be set up and drawn from when speciflc technical advice Is needed by
the PLG or PMO.
4.4          Analogous arngements for project management would be made at the provinc
level. Each Provinci Project Leading Group (PPLG) would be headed by a Vice Goveror and
include the Prvincial Directors of Agriculture and Livesock, the heads of the Provincial
Department of Ext       Economic Relations or its equivalent, the Finance Department, the
Provincial Planning Commission, and a representative from the Provincial Academy of
Agriculur Sciences (PAAS). The Provincid Director of Agriculture would be responsible for
implementing the Agrotechnical Extension and Seeds components of the project and the
Provincial Direcor of Animal Husbandry for the livestock component. Other components (eg.
the Regulatory Services) havig interventions at provincial level would be managed from the
central PMO, assisted by the relevant ptovincia organiation. A Provial Project Maagement
Office (PPMO) would be set up in each project province under the leadership of the Provincial
Department of Exernal Economic Relations or the Pvincial Plaing Commission to
coordinate project activities and ensure regular reporting. A Provincial Technical Advisory
Panel (PTAP) would be set up as a source of expert advce to be drawn on by the PPLG and the
PPMO.  Ihe Provinci Finance Department would keep consolidated project acunts.
Assurances were obtaid tat the promject prnc     enter ito Project  bplmentaton
Agreement (PUs) w*t MOF and MOA, to ensure at their project conponent is carred ou
and aeditftakds would be onkmnt (ara. 4.5). Condcuson of the PMAs, satfactory to IDA,
would be a condition of credit effecveness. ln addition, PiUs would be established in the other
provincial levels, the prefecture/municipal, county and township to implement the project
activities. At negoatioms, an assurance was obtae ftom the Borrower that the PMO,
PPMOs, and PIUs would be maitne and adequaely sted with qualedpersonnel daring
the life of the project, with sqff conWos*n accetabk to IDA.
B. FJANCLAL MANAGEMENr
4.5          MOF would onlend the porton of the IDA creditfor the provincil cmp
to the provinces wader the PIlAs, at an annual nerest rate qf 4 percn, wth a repaymentperiod
of 20 years, iuslw of sb years' grace period, and assurances to ta effect wuld be obined
at negoations. The provinces would oniend the relevant portions of the credit to project
municipalities/prefectures and counties on the same terms as the loans from the MOF to the
provinces. The foreign exchnge risk would be borne in each case by the end-user of the credit.
C. SUPIRVSIONI MONTOR , EVAWLAMiON AND RIPORNG
4.6          The Project Management Offices at national ad provinciad levels (PMO and
PPMOs) and the Project Implementation Units (PIUs) at prefectual and county levels, would
monitor the project's progress. In order to ensure smooth implementaton of the project, the
central PMO has etablished procedures at each level for project supervision. Regular
supervisions would be carried out to asss the physical, financia and technical aspects of the
projecL  Deails of the suevision plan are desrd in Annex. The central PMO ad
PPMOs would also asist in the evaluation of the project's impact on agricultural practices,
production, fam incomes and selected environmental parameters, under the direction of the



-41 -
nstltte of Agricultr Eonomics (AB) of the CAAS. Nonproject countes would be inluded
inte evauation as cotrols. A basdine survey wouldbe carried out inthe firstyear of project
ImiDpeeE on, covering a range of counties with varying drs of project Influence (direct,
indirect and remote). A teem, composed of the IAE, project technical assice, the PMO,
PPMOs and PlJs would establish a system of project montoring and evaluation using physical,
fiancial and environmental indicators, which would be specified during the preparation of the
implementon schedule and the baseline survey. Progress reports would be produced every six
mons by the project management at each level and discussed at workshops in order to
sseminate the lessons learned. Assurances were obtand ha the PMO swuld wmderlake with
IDA a nmd-trn reiw of the project by December 31, 1995.



-42-
5
PRODUCTION AND MARKETS
A. PROWDUCTON
5.1          The strengthening of agricultur support services would result in increased crop
and livestock production only to the extent that farmers adopt improved techologies to raise
yields, increase cropping intensity and raise meat producton.
5.2          Tecnology Typs. The increase in production would come from two types of
improved techology, one a set of Lproved exsting, readily adoptable technologles and the
second a set of newer, more advanced technologies that have not been disseminated much beyond
reseach Insions. Ihe fist set of techologies has been successily tested at fium level and
i amlready being used by some advanced farmers. Further work may be needed to adapt them
to loD  condions, in parclar counties, before they are extended to fams    ere. Te
Improvem  in the exension system under the project are designed to help spread these
technologies. Among such technologies are: (a) beter adapted local variedes; (b) improved
cultura practies, such as planting dates, seeding rates, spatial arrangements, cropping systems;
(c) better water management, including conJunctive use of surface and well water; (d) optimum
ferlizer strates based on climate, soil c s    and crop variety, application rates and
dming, orection of microelement deficiencies; and (e) pest and disease control, including
through better crop mixes and the preservation of natral enemies.
5.3          The second set of more advanced production-increasing technologies include: (a)
superior varieties of hybrid rice and corn resulting from recent access to germ plasma from
intenational organiztions; (b) Rhiobitn bacteria to fix nitrogen for soybeans, peanuts and
alfalf; and (c) the use of integrated pest management, Including better pest and diseas
foecng, assessment of the economic theshold for pesticide application, and the use of
parasites and predatrs for biological control. Some of these technologies are currenty being
evaluated at research stations and/or being tested at farm level for adaptation to diverse
agroecological conditions. Ihe stregthened linkages between research and etension resulting
from the project will facilitate the flow of these technologies to farmers.



-43 -
5.4         Ylelds. Th increase in average yields achievable in the project areas for major
crops using these two levels of technology are:
Table 5.1: EXTNG Am PrzRmrM  CROP YEmS (T/Hu) UsIG
IMROVED EX*TING OR NEw TEHOWGIES
With pro1ect
Existing       Without    Improved           New
practice       project    existing        technology
technology   development
Rice                    5.0            5.6           6.2            6.6
Wheat                   2.5            2.7           3.2            3.5
Maize                   3.4            3.8           4.4            4.9
Cotton La               0.7            0.8           1.1            1.3
Soybean                 1.4            1.5           1.8            2.1
Peanuts                 1.3            1.5           2.1            2.7
Rapeseed                1.0            1.2           1.6            1.9
Sweet potatoes /b       3.2            3.5           4.5           5.6
La Lint cotton.
& Grain equivalent (5 tons tuber:l ton grain).
Yields by province (ncluding only projeat counies) can be foud in A= I 1 Table 1. Ihey
sume that the various inputs reqired by te teclogies, includig seed, fertilizer,
agrochemicals, etc. are availble to implement them.
5.5         Adotion Raws of new tehology by fiamers will obviously vary enormously
according to the nature of the technology, epcted Inemena income, risk, input, credit and
labor milabilty, and other constn, in addion to th effectiveness of the adaptive reseach
and extension sevices. The pota  inremen  production and net income under the project
was estmated using dient scenmaios acrtng to adopton raes for the two technology types.
Improved adsting technology will be adopted fast  tm  new thnology. Incementa
production for each crop under each adoption-te scenaio is esmated as follows:



.44 -
Table S2: JNaRINTAL PEODuCFION AND AoflioN ItATs
With 2re42ct
Present    Without                  s8enarioe
production    project            I         II         III
Adoption rate                                          (2 of households)
Ixzstiug tech.            252        352         452         SO5         S02
New tochnology             12          32         52         202         302
Production           Incremental production
('000 tons)                  ('000 tons)
Riee                    5,098      5,631         172         493         662
Wheat                   2,979      3,216          78         246         339
Ize                   3,763       3,965          68         228         318
Soybean                   461        489          46         137         186
Sw.Potatoes               337        365          10          30          42
Total grain*           12,638     13,666         374       1,134       1,547
Rapeseed                  442        572          43         130         177
Peanuts                    49         54           2           5           7
Total oil crops           491        626          45         135         184
cotton                    181        233          18          61          85
Now: Set &no1L Table 2 for detas.
5.6         It is esdmated ht about 25 pecent of  m     In the projdct counes have
already adopted the improved technology. As beline data, ta gSin, oil seed and cotton
producton was 12.6 milion, 491,000 ad 181,000 tons, respectvy, in 1991. R is asumed
tha wio the project, the adoption rat would  ease to 35 percent for the Improved eistng
tecnology and to 3 perce for the  w technology over the six-ye  time fiame of the project.
his would resul in production wWit   the project of 13.7 million tons    ), 626,000 tons
(oil seed) and 233,000 tons (coto).
5.7             c     producXion w%  the project varies acrding to sumptons made
about the adopdo ra    iied by the project. In the wors scario (45 pecen adoption of
mpwroved exis g tehology and 5 prcent of new technology), Incemental grain production
beyond  pected production wihout the proct) would be only 0.4 million tons compared to
1.5 million tons for the best scearo (50 perct dopton of improved exitg techology and
30 pen now technology). Icmenta oil-crop productin woud be 45,000 tons for the worst
scArio compgred to 184,000 ts for the best And incement cotton production would be
18,000 tons for the worstsnrio and 85,000 tons for the best. It is unlikely that either the best
or worst adopt  scAos wod occur in rdIty. Sconario 11 is considered the most likely



-4S -
scenario; in this scenario, incremea grain, oil-crp and cotton production would be 1.1 million
tons, 135,000 tons and 61,000 tons, respectively.
LUvetodc Producion
5.8         Increml liveso  production from the project would come from improved
support services to livestock famers to promote healthier animals, superior breedig stock,
improved feed, better animal husbandry practices and imved farm management. In tUrn,
improvements in these areas woud reduce mortality rates and incase animal weight, growth
aes and meat quality. It is esmated tha, over the six-year time frme of the project, the
improved support services under the project would result in (a) reduced mortality of 6, 13, S,
and 8 percent, for cate, pigs, poultry, sheep/goat respectively, (b) increased meat offtae of
13, 11, and 5 percet for cattle, pigs and sheep/goats, respectively, and (c) increased yield for
both milk and eggs by 7 perce  (See Awn nLl Table 3).
5.9         Production. A livestock producton model was developed to assess project
impact on production based on the above production parameters. It was esmated that the
present adoption rate of about 23 percent would increase to 37 percent without the project by
end of 6 years. With the project, adoption rates of 48, 64 and 80 percent in three scenarios have
been used. In the worst and best scenarios (adoption rates of 48 percent and 80 percent),
incremental production for all livesck with the project would be 403,000 tons and 1.5 million
tons, respectively, above what it would be without the project (in the same six-year time frame).
Scenario II is the most likely scenario to occur; in this scenario, incrmenta poduction woud
be 1.0 million tons. In more detail, the model's estmates of the increment production of beef,
milk, pork, poultry meat, eggs and mutton/goat meat over the six-year time frame of the project
are as follows:
Table 5.3: INCREMENAL LtmxOC  PROnDUCION
With iroiect
Present  Without                   Scenario
Production   Project           I        II        III
Adoption rate                 23S       37Z        471        641        801
Production           Incremental production
('000 tons)                  ('000 tons)
Beef                          230       305         75        184        293
WiTl                           44        51          6         14         28
Poultry meat                   52        75         20         48         77
Egg.                          428       589        123        312        444
Pork                          717       934        174        424        576
Mutton/Goat                    44        51          5         13         26
Total                       1,515     2,005        403        995      1,444
Sou: Am11 Table 4.



-46 -
B. AARKErS
5.10        There should be litfle difficulty in finding markets for the incremet production
of the project, since domestic demand for food and raw material is rising steadily due to
increasing population and income. The demand for the individual commodities produced by the
project will be generally favorable. In fact, k is expected that most of the incremental crop and
livestock production of the project would be consumed In the project areas or in nearby towns,
except part of the lean pork, which would be exported. Since incremental production under the
project would be sold In twelve provinces, and amounts to less than one half of one percent of
the national production of grains and oil crops, the existing market channels could be used
without constraint or significant impact on market prices. The situation of the crops and
livestock markets is as follows:
5.11         Crops. China exceeded its grain production record of 1984 in 1989's harvest
of 408 million tons and 446 million tons in 1990. Nevertheless, China has been an importer of
wheat, rice and cotton. It imported about 11 million tons of wheat, 0.5 million tons of paddy and
60,000 tons of cotton in 1991. The incremental production of the project, about 1.I million tons,
would be used to meet the project areas' increased requirements due to population and livestock
growth and as inputs for agroindustrial products. Any surplus above these needs would be sold
to deficit areas in China.
5.12        The national market situation in cotton has been one of excess demand in recent
years. At present the country's teffile industry is operating weU below capacity, mainly due to
lack of raw materis. While total national production has increased o.ver the last several years,
it has not kept pace with textile industry demand, fueled in part by large, heretofore rapidly
expanding textile exports. Total demand for cotton is expected to be 5 million tons in 1991,
with production only of 4.54.8 million tons in 1990/91. The project's incremental production
of cotton of 61,000 tons would be about 1.3 percent of national production and would supply
provincial textle industries, which are experiencing a severe shortage of raw materias, due to
their inability to import sufficient quantities from other provinces or from abroad. Peanuts,
soybeans and rapeseed from the project would supply oil processors in the project provinces.
5.13       iUvestodck Products. Beef, mutton and goat meat produced under the project
would mainly supply domestic markets. Domestic demand for red meat has been growing, and
there would be no problem in the domestic absorption of an incremental 197,300 tons of beef,
mutton and goat meat (2 percent of national production). Lean pork would normally have export
markets in Hong Kong, Singapore and Macao, but if they should prove weak, it could also be
sold in the domestic market in major cities, where it would also command a premium price.
Broiler producton under the project would command high prices and be attractive to the
marketing corporations operating in project areas, which have networks of collection points,
prcesing facilities and urban marketing channels. Most production would be sold to these
corporations, but any surplus would be saleable in local markets. Eggs would supply local
markets or food processing factories. Milk would be sold as fresh milk or to processors.
C. !RICES
5.14         China's agricultura price policy over the past decade has focused on adjustig
procurement prices of goods marketed through the state-run system and reducing the number of
goods subject to state monopoly purchase. While lifting price controls, the Government has



-47 -
encouraged a more open markeing system for may goods by easing restctions on both private
and public interprovincial trade In agrictiural commodities and sanctioning the establihment
of free retail and wholesale markets. The sum total of these measures has been the creation of
a more diverse and competitive commercial envronment in agriculture. During the last decade,
fremarket agricutural trade has increed substantially, and producer prices for grain,
vegetables, fruit, meat and aquatic products have more than doubled. Consumers, both rural and
urban, have also benfitted from the wider availability and higher quality of farm products.
5.15         For the future, the Government has confirmed its commitment to achieving a
more market-oriented economy. This is demonstrated by the recent price reforms in major
sectors such as energy, transport and agriculture. Further adjustments in the grain pricing
system will be aimed to reduce the subsidization of urban consumets by farmers and provide
incentives to increase production. By the end of 1992, urban ration and farm procurement pries
for tLe major grains will have been essentially equalized.
5.16         Grain and oilseeds are priced variously-at procurement prices set by the
government, at prices negotiated with state entities and at prices determined in free markets.
The procurement prices for major commodities are set based on national price policy and were
stable from 1980-88 but since then increased substantially.l/ These increases brought the
procurement prices of wheat, maize and oilseeds close to world prices netted back to the farm
level. Japonica rice is the only main grain which is now underpriced, given supply and demand
in China. In other cases, official grain prices are also close to domestic negotiated prices and
market prices.
5.17         Cotton lint is the only commodity under the project which is stl subject to
100 percent state contract purchase at prices announced annually by the government, with
armers required to produce (as a condition of their free long-term land leases) according to
producdon quotas. The price of cotton was fixed at Y 2.9/kg from 1984 to 1988. This low
price was primarily responsible for a decline in national cotton production. Ihe procurement
price increased to Y 4.7/kg in 1989 and Y 6.01kg in 1990. Together wih nonprice incentives,
such as subsidized fertilier and fuel, these prces have resulted in a substial increase in
production in recent years. Meat prices are not regulated and free to vary with the market.
5.18         The input and output prices used in crop budgets for financial analysis are
presented in Annex 11, Table S. For economic analysis, World Bank commodity price
projections have been used to calculate the farm gate value of paddy, maize, wheat, soybeans
and peanuts. Detailed calculations can be found in An    11, Table 6.
I/     For isac, the pUrCmDt price of paddy increased by 37 percet in 1989 and dht of wheat
by 25 perct in 1991 (to be used for 1992 winter wheat).



-48 -
6
BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. BENEnm AD JUIrMCAION
6.1          Project inteventions would resut in stronger agrictural InstUtions and more
effective agricultural services at all administative levels. At the national level, the project would
benefit a sizeable portion of the couny's 200 million farm families tbrough (a) better
coordon of MOA agriculuual actvities, through improved information exchange, technology
transer and policy formulation; (b) stengthened NAIEC support to provinc  and lower level
etension services (technical assistance, information exchmge and training in extension
metodology); (c) modernized CABMS facilities for prwvidig in-saevice educadon to extension
workers and farmer technicians; (d) ehaced DAH capability to support and give tedcnical
direction to AHVSCs tiroughout the country; (e) upgraded breeding facilites and production of
vaccines, phamaticas and bioproducts hfrough selected investments; (t) more effective
protection from importd animal and plant pests and disses and better services for agricultura
exporter through strengtiened quarantine services; and (g) Improved reguation and quality
control of fertlizer, pesticides, seed, feed, pha cals and bio-products.
6.2         At the provincial and lower levels, roximay 5.6 million farm housholds
(m 1,680 townshius within 112 project counties) would directly benefit from the project through
(a) stronger extension centers with trained staff who would have wel-defined fumctions and
responsibilides, would be equipped with improved research, training and com cation
facilities and would be able to respond more effectively to demand from farmers; (b) better
farming-systems research and research-ension linkage; (c) newly established or strengthened
farmer associations to provide farmers an opportunity to voice and help orgae input supply
and marketing services, and (d) competitive commercial input-supply, seed and animal health
services. Thtse interventions at the township level, and also the corresponding ones at the
higer county, prefecur/municipal and provincia levels would provide models for
restructuring the crop and livestock extension services in nonpt tin  provinces,
prefectures/municipalities and counties.
6.3         A conservative approach to project benefits is taken here. The benefits of
Institional strengthening in terms of incremental crop and livestock production at the naional
level are not easy to quantify. Hence, attempts have been made to quantify benefits only in the
project townships. Furthermore, since it is difficult to disaggregate results of an improved
extension system, on the one hand, and of developments in irrigation, input supply, marketing
and credit, on the other, only the benefits from incremental firmer adoption of improved practice
(beyond a projected without-project baseline adoption scenario) are assumed to be the result of
the project.



-49.
6.4          Three scenarios of diffent nmenntal adoption rates (par. 5.5 and 5.9) were
used to quatfy projectbe   vued at 1992 const  prices. At fall development (PY 10),
net  remeal benefts for rps would be Y 384, Y 1,234 and Y 1,706 millo, rpectively,
for Cop Scenarios 1,11 and m (&mu zI Table 2), and net inmenta beneft for lietock
would be Y 607, Y 1,492, and Y 2,230 million, reectvely, for Livetock Scenarios I, I and
m (Annel, Table 4).
B. Er.TwMwr AND INCoML
6.5          Employnet. The main employmen effect of the project woud be a significant
reducdon in seasonal undermploymet among rural labor in and aund the project are.
Average incremena labor requrements for crop   ification and incremental livestock
production of typical farming systems would  erage 30 to 50 petson-days per household per
annum and could be handled mainly within the existig family structure. (in Heilongjiang and
Sichuan,   ication of pig and dairy production woudd requir aditional hired labor, which
is amply avaiable from the underemployed labor pool twrghout ihe year In both provinces.)
Besides on-farm employment, there would also be off-farm employment in handling, distributing
andprocessingtheiremental outputoftheprojec  Terewouldbesomeinementalpositions
for extension staff which would be fDled by retrained existg employees and new recruitment
of qualified femaes.
6.6         Ime and Povety Alleton. The net income of farm families who adopt
improved or new tecnologies under the project would be increased subsntially. At foil
development the project would double or triple the incoes of adoptees, depen   on the
technology level. Farm model analysis of project farmers in Hunan Provice (AnngdI Table
7) shows that net family income would increase from Y 877 ($160) to Y 1,815 ($333) with
Improved exisdng technology or to Y 4,550 ($83!) with new technology. Per capita family
income would increase from Y 237 ($43) to Y 490 ($90) or to Y 1,230 ($226) in the two cases.
Farm model analysi for each provice is summized in AmexI1 1 Table 8.
6.7          Theproject woulddirecdy help to alleviate poverty  ei  of the counties in the
project area that are classified by the govement as among the poorest In China (per capita
income below Y 250 ($46), i.e., in Sichuan (Guangan and Lniong countes), Hebei (Qinglong
and LInsou counties), Henan   yang and Quehanm counties) and Lianiog (Yld  an d
Jiangchng County). An indicator of how much per capita income would increase in these
counties with the project is the average for tthe respecdve provinces in the two technology cases:
Sichuan from Y 328 ($60) to Y 518 ($95) or Y 727($133); Hebei from Y 359 ($66) to Y 698
($128) or Y 1,658 ($304); Henan from Y 169 ($31) to Y 616 ($113) or Y 1,507 ($276); for
Liaoning from Y 370 ($68) to Y 867 ($159) or Y 1,644 ($302).
C. WOMEN IN         LOPIEN
6.8          One of the main social beneft derived from the project is the genaion of
employment opporunities for women. With the project, women would have access to new
productive work in a whole range of actviies from crp and lvetock produci  to proceing.
Emphasis would be given to the participation of women in support services acities and project
related training for women would be increased to specified tagets (up to 40 percent), from
national to vfllage level. When conside candates for new staff andlor inservice taining,
female candidates with similar q catons as males would be selected for professional



-so-
development opportuniies. Project support units at the comunty and towhip levds would be
expected to work from the cumnt level of about 10 percent women famer pardcipation in
training courses toward the goal of 30-35 percent fmae participation in farmer traning courses
by the end of the project. Aessment would be undertaken to determine whether there is a need
to develop special training courses for women in speciaized areas as small-scale livesck
production. Each project unit would also maintain records to monitor the number aM percent
of women receiving all types of training, including degree, short-term and farmer training
courses.
D. COSr RICOvERY
6.9         Cost recovery for the extension services provided to the 5.6 mfllion farmers
under the project would come from the taxes collected on their incremental crop and livestock
production. These taxes are estmated to be 5 percent and 6 percent of the incremenal net value
of production. The cost recovery analysis in Annex t Table 9 shows that, at present tax rates,
project charges (taxes) would not be sufficient to cover project costs. The annual recovery index
would be only 12-16 percent (deped    on the adoption scenario).  It would rise to
16-25 percent, discounted over the period of full development, and to 26-103 percent, discounted
over the project life.
6.10        The project would also institute cost recovery for services rendered to farmers
as much as possible. Recurrent costs of crop and livestock extension would be partially
recovered through contract systems involving frmer associations. Many project activities would
also adopt appropriate pricing for products and services, such as seed, quality contol services,
quarantine services, AHVSC services, and SPF vaccine and laboratory services, and would thus
flly or pardally recover their costs. With the commercialization of seed companies, involving,
among other things, the maintence of proper accounts, seed would be priced on the basis of
production cost plus profit margin. The quality control laboratories would also charge the full
cost of the services provided to the clients, who would be obliged to meet these costs. The
Animal and Plant Quarantine Service is already largely self-financing and would charge the cost
of improved services to importers and exporters. The township level AHVSCs are expected to
run on commercial lines and obtain their financing from the ABC at prevailing rates. The SPF
egg production unit would recover costs through a 30 percent increase in the pnie of improved
vaccines, thus requiring only very limited project support.
E. hIPACr ON GOVENMENT BUDT
6.11        The toal incremental recurrent budget required to keep project etension services
operating at the same level of efficiency following the loan disbursement period is estimated at
Y 85.9 mfllion ($15.8 million) per annum (1992 yua). Ihis represents about 1 percent of 1990
Government tax revenue from agriculture and 0.04 percent of recurrent expenditures allocated
to all support services in the agricultural sector in 1990; it would be much lower in 1998. Of
the Y 85.9 million, 47 percent or Y 40.1 million would be from county and township budgets.
Ihe annual incremental recurrent budget requirements at the other administrative levels would
be: Y 4.6 million for the national level, Y 17.8 million at the provincial level and Y 14 milion
at the prefectural level. Ihe impact of these Iemental recurrent expenditures on the
adminisative budgets at the various levels of government would be very small when dhivded
among the large number of project jurisdictions (i.e., 112 counties and 1,680 townships).



-51 -
F. FNANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSI
6.12         Thiandal Analyss. Farm-level faciaW bendefits are calcuated on the bass of
the adoption of improved exisfig teology and new technology as both these are promoted
under the project. Two crop budgets (one-ectare models) have been developed for all major
crops and all project provinces. The first model assumes adoption of Improved existing
technology; the second assumes adoption of new technology In addition or as substitution for it.
In the first model yields would increase; in the second model there would also be benefits from
cost reduction. Given the price and cost structures in each province, financial rates of return
and net return per person day for all crops are substantial. Appendix 11, Table 10 shows the
example of Hunm province; detailed crop budgets for other project provinces can be found in
the project files (Amx 1I2).
6.13         Economic Analyss. Economic analyses have been carried out for crop and
livestock components separately and for the project as a whole using the incremental project
benefits of the three adoption scenarios described in Chapter 5 (i.e., only for the 5.6 million
farmers directly benefitted). Project cosm include aU project investment and recurrent cosu,
farm production costs and physical condngencies. Buildings are assumed to last 20 years, and
vehicles and equipment would be replaced every 7 or 8 years. Training and local consultant
costs would be reduced after project year 6 and continue at a moderate rate; other recurrent costs
are assumed to coninue at the same level for the 20-year period as during project year 6.
6.14         World price projections or average export prices actually realized by China in
1992 were used to estimate constant farmgate economic prices for traded inputs and outputs.
Economic prices for nontraded goods were estimated using conversion factors (Annex I1, Table
11). These conversion factors were estmated based on the analysis of the deviations of social
opportunity costs from the actual financial prices prevailing in China, which are caused by taxes
and price distortions. All economic values were converted to local currency at the prevailing
official exchange rate of Y 5.45 to $1. Unskilled farm labor was valued at 66 percent of the
prevailing average wage rate in the project areas. Based on the above, the results of the
economic analysis are shown in AmegJj,1 Tables 12-14 and are summarized as follows:
Scenario
I                II                 III
rn   in    rn ~~En              NPVB
Crop                   863.5   29.1   3,551.6    66.2   4,995.7  84.5
Livestock              195.5   15.9   1,339.9    30.7   2,484.5  41.2
Project              1,183.3   23.8   4,970.1    48.8   7,558.7  62.5
6.15         Despite loading all economic costs on the township-level interventions, the results
of economic analysis show high rates of return for the project under all adoption scenarios.
Under the least favorable scenario (10 percent incremental adoption rate over the sition
without the project), ERRs for crops and livestock were 29 and 16 percent, respectively. Under
the more favorable scenario (42 percent inremenl adopion rate), ERRs for crops and livestock
were 85 and 41 percent, respectively. Scenario 1 (32 percent incremental adoption rate) would
be the most likely, and gives ERR for crops and livestock of 66 and 31 percent, respectively,
and 49 percen fo)r the project as a whole. If unquanied benefits (e.g., benefits deriving from
improved extension services throughout China, not just in the project area) were measured and
incrporated In the calculations, these economic rates would be sfill higher.



-52-
6.16         Sensitivity analyses have been caried out to identify the minimum adoption rates
before the project becomes economically nonviable. At a discount rate of 12 percent, benefs
of the crop component could be reduced by 53 percent before they equal costs; this translates
to an adoption rate of Just 4.3 perceLt Lkewise, befis of the livestock component could be
reduced by 25 percent befre they equal cost, tranatig to an adoption rae of 7.2 percent.
The rests of the analyses confirm  hat It would take well less than 10 percent of farm
households (560,000 farm households) in the project area to adopt techology at the lowest level
promoted under the project over and above the adopdon rate epected wilth   the project, in
order to justify the investment.
G. RIsKS
6.17        The main project rskc is instituonal. The large number of organizations
involved in implementing the project and the project's dependence on revised management
methods, techniques and iformation systems makes Its implementation and supvision difficult,
requiring motivated, sound management.  In this  rd, China has a good track record in
handling complex projects, and implementation of the several componens would be organized
through largely mdependent chamels. In addition, MOA will have many improvements in
management in place or in process befbre loan approval. Project leading groups and project
ffices/implementation units have been established at all levels and are fully operational. Apart
from the technical advisory groups/paels, which advise the project on technical matters,
specialized units for procurement, trainingflA and supervisiont/minioring have also been
organized to coordinate project acdvities in each of these areas. The restructuing of the
extension system and the Department of Animal Husbadry, already in progress, would integrate
and streamine the services provided to farmers. Other project risks include the possibility that
the technology being developed and intduced may not be targeted at the main production
problems and may encounter acceptance problems by the farmers. This would be minimized
through the project design, which is based on feedback from farmers and verified with farmer
participation on farmers' fields. There is also the possibility that farmer incentves would be
eroded in that inputs, especially ferlizer, would not be available in the quanities needed for the
technology packages being promoted by the project. Ihese factors are beyond the scope of this
project, but are being handled through preparation of a series of fertlizer industry projects and
the proposed Grain Distribution and Marketing Project, initially at least with considerable
success.



-53 -
7
AGREEMENT REACHEID AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1          At negotaons, asrances have boee obained from the Bortower that:
(a)    NATEC and DAH would be reorganized on the basis of an orgaizatonal
stucture agreed with IlDA, to be completed by June 30, 1994 (para. 3.3);
(b)    FA activities would be caried out unler tem  of reference and timing agreed
wit IIA (par. 3.21);
(c)    a pilot program for commercializaion of the seed iustry would be submitted
to IDA for review by July 1, 1994 and implmented thereafter as agreed with
the Association (pam. 3.23);
(d)   by December 31, 1993, the Borrower would prepare and firnish to IDA a work
plan to ensure tia ay quaranine procedures idenified to be inconsistent with
best iernational practices wi1l be amended as agreed with IDA (para. 3.53);
(e)   all project loca and overse    tg, study tours, adaptive research and
extson programs, and tecnical asistn  would be carried out in accordance
with plans agreed with IDA, and the Project Mnagement Office would furnisb
to IDA for review and approval anmial plans by September 30 of each year
during project mplemeion (para. 3.73);
(t)   the Borrower would procure about 660 vehides required for the project in
accordace with a plan acceptable to the Association and would firnish a draft
plan to the Associadon no later than July 1, 1993 (pm. 3.82);
(g)   the Special Account would be audited by the State Audit Administaton, and the
PMO and PPMOs would maintin consolidated accou  of all components for
annual audiing by indendent audtiors acceptable to IDA and the audited
accounts together with the auditor's report would be submitted to IDA within six
monts of the close of each financial year (para. 3.87);
0h)   the project provinces would enter into Project Imp ion Agreemen
(PIAs) with MOF and MOA, to ensure ht their project component is carried
out, and credit funds would be onlent (par  4.4);
(I)   the PMO, PPMOs, and PIUs would be manined and adequately stffed with
ualified persomel during the life of the project, with staff composition
acceptale to IDA (pa. 4.4); and



-54 -
0)    MOP would onlend the pordon of the IDA credit for provincial componen to
the provinces under the PMAs, at an annual interst re of 4 percet, with a
rpayment period of 20 years, inclusive of six yeas' grace period (para. 4.5);
and
(k)   the PMO would underta  a mid-em rWiew of the project jointy with IDA by
December 31, 1995 (pia. 4.6).
7.2         Conclusion of all the Project Implemenon Agreements with participating
province sactory to IDA and State Council approval of the Development Credit Agreement,
would be conditions of credit effcdveness.
7.3          Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would constite a suitable
bass fbr an IDA credit of SDR 83.7 million ($115.0 miUlion equivalent) on standard IDA terms
with 35 yeas matuity.  he Borrower would be the People's Republic of China.



- 55 -
ANNM
Page 1 of 7
CIA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Basic Data on Prolect Provinces
The Prolect Provinces
1.    The basic features of the twelve provinces selected for implementation of the
different field service components, viz. Beijing, Guangxi, Hebei, Heilongjiang,
Henan, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jilin, Liaoning, Shaanxi, Shanghai and Sichuan are given
below.
Agiliuglitv
2.    Beijing, capital of People's Republic of China and commnication center of
politics and culture, is located in the North-west corner of Huabei plain, East
longitude 115 25'- 117 30', North latitude 39 26'- 41 05', with 1,680,800 ha total
area. Beijing is in charge of 4 urban districts, 6 near suburban districts, 9 far
suburban counties (districts), 291 townships, and 4,129 villages, with 10,205,800
total population, and 1,861,220 farm laborers.
3.    Beijing's geographical features are 55% mountain areas in Vest and North
region, 39% plain areas in South-East region. Average precipitation is
approximately 630 mm for the plain area, 11.6' average temperature, 180-200 days
frost-free period, >10C accumulating temperature 4,1541C, and 2778 annual sunshine
hours.
4.   There are 415,870 ha. total cultivated area of which 74% is irrigated areas.
According to the region, there are three kinds of cropping systems, two crops a year
in plain area, three crops in two years in hilly area and one crop a year in North-
West area. The main crop is grain with a multiple crop index of 142%; and
production is 2,392,000 tons (1990). The factors which influence agricultural
development are lack of funds; incomplete and weakness in basic facilities of the
agrotechnical extension service system compared with agricultural machinery or water
conservancy facilities; and low cultural level of farmers.
Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Re"ion
5.    Guangxi covers a total area of 23.67 million ha.  In 1989, there was a
population of 41.5 million, of which agricultural population occupied 87t. The
region is divided into 8 prefectures, 5 cities under its administration, 38
counties, 1,401 towns and 14,923 villages. It is topographically inclined from
northwest toward southeast and surrounded by hilly areas. The mountain areas occupy
60.3% of its total area, the hilly land 16.9%, the plain (including basins) 20.8%
and the rivers and reservoirs 2.0%. There is a 1,595-km-long coast line. Belonging
to subtropical monsoon zone, Guangxi's average annual temperature is 17-22'C, its
annual sunshine hours are 1,400-1,800 hrs., its frost-free period is 300-330 days
and its average annual rainfall is 1,550.5 am (mainly in the period from May to
August).



- 56 -
Page 2 of 7
6.    Guangxi's cultivated area is 2,578,000 ha, including 1,587,000 ha. of paddy
field and 991,000 ha. of dry land. The main cropping system is based on two crops a
year, with some areas producing only one crop and others, three crops a year. The
multiple crop index is 190%. In 1989, Guangxi's total grain output reached
13,017,100 tons, including 11,323,810 tons of paddy rice and 1,222,300 tons of
maize. The total output of raw sugarcane was 14,107,000 tons and that of oil crops,
with peanut as the main content, was 230,150 tons. The major restricting factors
for agricultural production, besides less cultivated land and effective irrigation
area, are insufficient facilities for popularizing agricultural techniques, backward
service means, lack of necessary audio-visual education, checking and testing
equipments and communication means, and lack of systematical training for
agricultural technical service staff, who are still unqualified for their works, and
which delays acceptance of improved technology.
Hebei Province
7.   Hebei Province covers a land area of 188,000 km and has a population of 58.81
million persons of which 85% belong to rural households. Administratively, the
province is subdivided into 18 prefectures, 140 counties, 3,369 townships and over
50,574 villages. About 37% of the province is in mountainous areas, 10% in the
Bashang plateau, and only 30% occupies the plains. The climate is characterized by
a cold winter with sparse snowfall, dry windy spring, rainy hot summer and cool
autumn. The annual solar radiation is 2,450-3,100 hours, the annual average
temperature is llC to 140C and the frost-free season is 80-205 days. The annual
average precipitation totals 350-815 mm, most of it (65-80%) concentrated in summer.
8.    The total cultivated area is 6.56 million ha, of which 554 is irrigated.  The
province is divided into two major cropping areas, a single cropping area comprising
the northern and mountainous western parts and a double cropping area comprising the
central and southern parts. The overall multiple cropping index is 134. The major
crops produced are vheat (8.6 million tons), maize (7.7 million tons), cotton
(536,000 tons) and oilseeds (559,900 tons). Constraints quoted by provincial
officials as hindering increased agricultural production include: poor agro-
technical extension systems due to lack of qualified and trained staff, especially
at township level; lack of laboratory, training and extension equipment and
vehicles; and inadequate or dilapidated seed processing facilities.
Heilongjiang Province
9.    Heilongjiang Province lies in the northeast part of China, extending from
43'25'N to 53-33', and between 121V11'E and 135005'E, extends 1,120 km from its
southern to northern border and 930 km from its eastern to western border. The
total area of the province amounts to 453,900 ki2; its topography features 37% plain
areas, 36% hilly areas, 25% mountainous areas, and 3% river areas. The province has
a 3-river plain in the northeast and Songnen Plain in the west, which is famous for
its stretches of flat land and fertile soil and is considered one of the three
largest black soil regions in the world.
10.   Heilongjiang Province has a population of 34.42 million, of which 10.84
million is agricultural, accounting for 31.5%. The province has 10 municipalities
and 4 prefectures, covering 15 cities, 53 counties and 1 minority autonomous county,



- 57 -
Page 3 of 7
with 1,157 townships and 14,469 villages. 
11.   The cultivated land in Heilongjiang extends over 8.83 million ha and has 11
soil types, but black soil accounts for 58.5% of total cultivated land. The
irrigated land comes to 170,000 ha, accounting for 2% of total cultivated land.
Heilongjiang adopts one crop per annum system. Its staple crop production is
grain, including wheat, corn, soybean and rice and its sown area accounts 86% of
total sown area in Heilongjiang. In a normal year as 1989, the total grain
production reached 16.689 million tons, including 2.317 million tons of rice, 3.673
million tons of wheat, 6.152 million tons of corn and 2.918 million tons of soybean.
12.   Heilongjiang Province is one of the coldest provinces in China.  The annual
mean temperature is between -4-5C, reaching -40'C in winter and 38"C in summer.
The effective accumulated temperature above 1O0C is between 1,8000C and 2,600C.
The annual precipitation averages 530 mm. The annual sunlight hours varies between
1,092-1,362. The frost-free period lasts for 100-140 days and the freezing period
120-170 days.
13.   In recent years, Heilongjiang has seen a rapid development in agriculture but
there are still some factors affecting stable and high-yield agricultural
production: insufficient inputs, shortage of funds, obsolete extension means, and
low level of farmers' ki.owledge.
Henan Provi_nee
14.   Henan is situated astride the Yellow River in east-central China.  It is
bordered by Shandong and Anhui to the east, Hebei and Shanxi to the north, Shaanxi
to the west and Hubei to the south. The province has a population of about 82.3
million - the second largest in China - with 87% in farm households. It has a land
area of about 167,000 kmn. About 56% of the land is flat land in the North China
Plain; the remainder is composed mostly of hilly and undulating lands outside the
plain. Administratively, the province is divided into five prefectures and 12
municipalities, with 158 counties and 2,128 townships. The climate is continental
and monsoonal with average annual rainfall of 785 mm, ranging from 600 to 1,200 mm.
15.   Of the 16.7 million ha in the province, 6.9 million (42%) are arable and 3.4
million of these (49%) are irrigated. Pasture covers about 0.3 million ha, fruit
orchards about 0.5 million ha, forest about 1.7 million ha, and wasteland and non-
agricultural land about 7.3 million ha. The total cropped area in 1989 was
estimated at 11.7 million ha, indicating a 167% cropping intensity. Wheat is the
most important, covering 49% of the cropped area, followed by corn 21%, cotton 9%,
soybeans 7%, sweet potatoes 6%, rice 4%, and peanuts 4%. The total grain production
in 1989 was 31.5 million tons, cotton 0.5 million tons, and oilseeds 1.2 million
tons. The livestock population in the province is estimated to include 8 million
cattle, 1.2 million sheep, 10 million goats and 14 million pigs.
16.   The important constraints to increasing crop yields and production in the
province are the lack of fertilizers, irrigation water and certified seeds of
improve varieties, on the one hand, and the presence of waterlogging, excess
salinity, drought and flooding, on the other. In the case of livestock, the main
constraints are the lack of feed resources, incomplete service system, and need to
upgrade the skills of extension staff.



- 58 -
ANNEXX
Page 4 of 7
4unan Province
17.   Hunan Province has a total area of 21.182 million ha and a population of
60.136 million inhabitants, 85% of whom are agricultural. The mean annual rainfall
is 1,250-1,750 mm, the mean annual temperature 16-180C and frost-free period 261-313
days. Annual sunshine hours amount to 1,300 to 1,900. These are excellent climatic
conditions for livestock development.
18.   Presently, 3.319 million ha (17% of the total land area of the province) are
under crops, 5.7 m ha are in grassy mountains and slopes, and 1.3 m ha comprise
water bodies. Hunan province has 14 prefectures, 195 counties, 2,807 townships and
over 48,468 villages. In 1989, the annual grain output is 26.75 million tons and
the production of various types of stalks is 30.0 m tons and of grasses 52 million
tons, providing 2.5 million tons of forage. In 1989, 55 million hogs were raised of
which 28.7 million were sold for meat. Annual meat hog production has been
increasing at the rate of about 6% in recent years and the export of hogs from Hunan
Province has been around 8 million head per annum. Other livestock in the province
includes: 4.0 million head of cattle and horses, 0.7 million head of goats, 153
million poultry and 0.9 million rabbits. Total meat output is about 1.94 million
tons. Livestock accounted for 36.7% of province's total agricultural production
value and 60% of its foreign exchange earnings in 1989.
19.   Important constraints in livestock services to farmers in Hunan Province
include: poor training of technical personnel; uncoordinated breeding activities;
shortage of veterinary chemicals; lack of integration with forage and feed
production; an unorganized marketing system; and inadequate and inefficient
processing plants for livestock products.
Jiangsu Province
20.   Situated along the eastern coast of China and the lower reaches of Yangtze
river and Huai river, Jiangsu province covers a total surface of 102,600 sq. km. or
approximately 1% of the land in China. The province is flat, scattered with
numerous rivers and lakes. The plains fresh water bodies and hills represent 68.8%,
16.9%, and 14.3% of the provincial area, respectively. The total population is 65
million, with 51.6 million (80%) in rural area. There are 11 cities under the
jurisdiction of the province, which in turn administer 64 counties or county-level
cities; there are 1,909 townships and 36,143 villages.
21.   Jiangsu enjoys the natural favors of both the northern and the southern China
as it is located in the transition zone dominated by the warm temperate and the
subtropical climates with the average annual temperature of 140c (from -160C to
400C), 210-245 frost-free days and 550-1520 mm annual precipitation. The
simultaneousness of rainy season and hot summer, in addition to the abundant
sunshine, favors the production of rice, wheat, cotton, and rapeseed.
22.   Of the 4.6 million ha arable land (4.7% of the national arable land), 3.6
million ha. (80%) are under effective irrigation systems. The agriculture in
Jiangsu is well-known for its intensive crop husbandry. With only 1% of the land
area of China and 4.6% of the arable land, Jiangsu produces over 8% of the food
grains, 13% of the cotton, 9% of the oilseed, 7%'of the meat, 10% of the



- 59 -
ANEX I
Page 5 of 7
aquatic product and 20% of silkworm cocoons.
23.   The major constraining factors in Jiangsu agriculture are the lack or poor
quality of seeds, fertilizers and pesticides at farm level, and the weakness of
extension service.
Jilin Province
24.   Jilin Province has a total land area of 187,400 k)2, with a population
estimated at about 25 million, with about 60% classified as rural. The province is
organized into 9 prefectures, 59 counties/cities, 929 townships, and 10,300
villages.   Of the total land area of 18.7 million ha, forest land is 47%, followed
by arable land 22%, grassland 14%, and water area 5%. The province has a
continental monsoon climate with an annual average temperature of 2-6C (5-60C in
the west plains) and the lowest in January reaching -18 to -200C. The frost-free
period is from 125-150 days, and average annual sunshsine is from 1,348 to 1,644
hours. Rainfall averages 400-1,600 mm per annum of which about 78% occurs from June
to September. Winter is generally long and dry with snowfall. Droughts in spring
and waterlogging and flooding of low-lying land in summer occur in some years.
25.   The total cultivated land at present is 4.04 million ha of which about 16%
(660,000 ha) are irrigated. Because of the long cold winter, area sown annually is
only 4.06 million ha, of which 3.5 million ha (87%) is devoted to food crops (maize
- 63%, paddy - 11%, soybean - 13%), oilseed - 5%, vegetables - 4%, fruit - 1S,
sugarbeet 1% and others 2%. Total output of the main crops--maize is 12.6 million
tons, paddy 2.3 million tons, and soybean 882,000 tons. Although irrigation,
drainage andi flood protection works have been undertaken in the past to overcome
waterlogging and flooding, there is scope for further irrigation and drainage works
to increase crop yields and incomes of the affected farmers. Shortage of inputs,
particularly fertilizer and diesel and weak extension systems (inadequate training,
equipment and operating budgets) are the main constraints to higher productivity.
Per capita consumption of meat in the province was 10.67 kg in 1990, marginally
lower than the national average of 11.3 kg. Animals are raised on crop residues
supplemented by grazing in natural grass and wastelands. Grasslands, mostly located
in the northeast of the province, have the potential for more efficient use for
livestock development. There is a need to improve livestock extension services
which are hampered by a lack of transportation, communication, equipment and
operating budget.
Liaoning Province
26.   Liaoning Province has a total area of 145,700 sq. km., and a population of
38,760,000 of which 58% is rural population. There are 14 municipalities, 75
counties, 1,248 townships and 15,726 villages. 49% of the area is mountainous
terrain, 33.4% plain and 6.8% water body. Liaoning enjoys a continental climate
controlled by monsoon which provide four distinct seasons; high temperatures and
plentiful rain are concentrated in the summer. The annual radiation is about 2,270
to 2,990 hours. The average temperature is S.C to lOC and >10C accumulited
temperature is about 3,400eC to 3,6001C (80% of which concentrated in the period
from May to September). The frost-free period lasts 150 to 180 days. The annual
precipitation ranges from 250 mm to 1,850 mm (80% of which concentrated in the



- 60 -
ANNEI
Page 6 of 7
period from May to September).
27.   The province has 3,630,400 ha. of cultivated land, of which 21% is irrigated.
The maJor crops are corn, rice, sorghum, wheat, soybean and peanut, etc. In 1989
(normal year's harvest), the total yield of grain and bean is 13,072,000 tons,
including corn, 6,811,200 tons (8.6% of the national corn yield); rice, 3,402,000
tons (25% of the national Geng rice yield); sorghum, 1,610,000 tons (28% of the
national sorghum yield). Besides these, the province also produces apples (15% of
the national apple yield) and trusser cocoons (more than 75% of the national trusser
cocoon yield).
28.   The following factors shape the development of the provincial agriculture: the
decrease in the area of cultivated land; shortage of the means for agri-production;
imperfect agricultural support services system; and its infrastructure and service
means are inadequate.
Shaan,i Province
29.   Shaanxi Provlnce covers an area of 205,583 km.  There are about 32,750,190
population, with about 82% in the rural area. The province is divided into 10
prefectures, 107 counties, 2,621 townships, and 32,499 villages. According to
natural conditions there are three main areas: Loess plateau and high land in the
North (45%), Cuanzhong basin plain in the middle (18%), and Qinba mountains in the
South (37%). There are great differences between south and north of Shaanxi
Province, in terms of not only geography but also in the climatic conditions; in
general, it belongs to continental monsoon climate. Annual radiation is about
1,349- 2,930 hours. The mean temperature in the whole province is 5.9-15.7'C. The
frost-free period is 155-240 days. The annual mean precipitation is about 600-800
mm.  Shaanxi province is one of the important agriculture production areas in China.
There are about 3,541,060 ha. cultivated land, of which 32* is irrigated. The major
crops cultivated in Shaanxi are wheat, maize, rice, sorghum, soybean, millet,
potatoes, rapeseed, and cotton. In 1990, the total grain production reached
10,700,000 tons. The production of oil bearing crops reached 333,000 tons and
cotton reached 77,000 tons.
30.   The main restrictions for agricultural development in Shaanxi Province are
insufficient training for the agriLextension staff and lack of extension equipment,
seed processing machines and fertilizer, as well as training facilities.
Shanghai Municiualitv
31.   Shanghai municipality covers a land area of 634,050 ha. and a suburban
population of 5.26 million, of which 78.6% is agrieultural. Administratively, the
municipallty is subdivLded into 10 counties, 210 townships, and 3,034 villages, and
has 1.3874 million households. Shanghai belongs to the subtropieal zone with warm
weather and four distinct seasons. The annual mean temperature is 16.1C, the
frost-free season is 225-236 days, and the annual average precipitation is 1,000-
1,100 mm.
32.   The total area of suburban Shanghai is 559,100 ha., the total cultivated area
is 307,350 ha., of which 100% is irrigated. The topography is plain, with an



- 61 -
ANNE X
Page 7 of 7
avArage elevation of 4 meters; the lowest elevation is 2.2 meters.  The major crops
cultivated in Shanghai are rice, wheat, cotton, and rapeseed. There are two kinds
of crpvping systems: two crops a year, wheat (or rapeseed) - rice, and three crops
a year, wheat-corn-rice. The multiple cropping index is 194%. The total grain
production in 1989 was 2.37 million tons, of which rice was 1.82 million tons,
rapeseed 150,000 tons, cotton is 7,685 tons. The major constraints to increased
farm production are as follows: shortage of natural agriculture resources,
especially land; low price of farm production and high price of agriculture inputs;
poor quality of labor force, lack of laboratory, training and extension equipment;
and shortage of technical staff.
Sichuan Province
33.   Sichuan is the most populous (107.0 million people in 1989) and the fifth
largest (567.6 thousand kmn) province in China. Some 85% of its population is
agricultural. Administratively it is divided into 21 municipalities/prefectures,
217 counties, 8,554 townships and some 76,479 villages. The province comprises
three major natural regions: the large, rich and fertile Chengdu plain, occupying
27% of the area; the West Plateau, with 45% of the area and supporting mainly cattle
and fruit production; and the southwest area (28% of total), including a river basin
area suitable for grains, sugarcane and tobacco, and a cool mountainous area
supporting corn, potato and cattle productiost. The main production areas have
annual mean temperatures of 16-180C, 1,000-1,400 sunshine hours per year, 280-350
frost-free days per year and an annual precipitation of 1000-1,200 mm. A whole
range of crops is grown in one, two or three seasons per year in the varied agro-
ecological settings available.
34.   In 1989, there were 6.3 million ha of cultivated land, (1ll of the area of the
province) of which about 56% was irrigated. The province produced ibout 40.8 m tons
of grain (52% rice, 15% wheat) or 10% of the nation's grain output. It is also
responsible for one third of the national output of rapeseed, citrus and silkworm
cocoons. Livestock products in Sichuan Province included 4.1 million tons of meat
and 254 thousand tons of milk in 1988. Twenty percent of the pigs in China are
raised in this province. The major constraints to increased farm production (other
than limitations of land and water) are the poorly trained and poorly equipped agro-
technical extension services and the inadequate supply of quality inputs (seed,
fertilizer, animal feed, vaccines, etc.).



AgricAltwrl SmWrt Se e Project
Bsic Prect Proincat Statfstlc
Ita                 Ullt  Beijia n    egel  llelilugjenw  tleont   Jil_ue  SO      i   NI   Si_ 6uMi                bA _f_           Jlin
..... ..... .,... ,,...,.. ,... .,           ..... 5,, .40, ..... 1"S7'... 02'0 ....... .    ...... S................ M,.
A. total Ara'000 h    1,681    18,769                           45,400     14,50  te,260      6423,670    56,t60  2058.            i,a5   16,700   18.100
o. tttte
t. Aa  A" Teratwe             deree C.  11.6  -0.3 - U       5 - 4          7       14    16.1   t-22        16-18     12.9      16.6    12.8      5.6
2. heri AePrecipitetia        e            630   350-,lS        530       600   1.017   1,332   1.551  1000-1200  6-    I23-1698  50065s
3. Frost free period          de          1t5      0-20    100-140 1t50-I8O        220      236 300-330   2B0-350  tSS-240  262-2M  180238  110-1SO
C. Adelmistretian  "too
1. seo. Of ftoftue            Ml.            0       t8          U         14       11       0       13        21        to        1       17       9
2. o. of Coeties              lo.           14      t40          69        7s       6       22       BB       217       1t0        6      158       5
3. go. of T_uualps            go.          291    3,369       t,tS7     1,248    1,909     210   1.401      8,5S4      26n        p0r   2.12      929
4. o. of VItlaes              ll.        4.129   50s,74      14,"9      1S726  36.143   3,034  14.923    76m479   32.499    3.448  47,804  10,300
S. to. of Fem Nowsohaltda     '000       1.215   12,759       3,974     S,882   14U74   1t,387   7.2r9      24,338    6,282       96             6.312
0. Peuhltion
t. totat Pqptation            &O0    1t.206   58.810         34.424    38,760  65.399   5,259  41.s0o   107.003   32,750    4. 27V   6,870  24,402
2. kirhu                      '000       6.306    8,no       23.S84    16.247  13,7n       809   S.490    1S,        5S932       @606   11447   9,44
3.  ualt                      '000       3,900   s0,100      10t80     22s513  s1.620   4,4S0   36,010    91,223    26,s18    3.6n   75.423  14.65
4. AveragewaerJhm.e           No.          3.2      3.9         4.0       3.0      3.5     3.1      4.9        3.7      4.1       3.6     4.0      3.8
E . tote  tabor Fore           000 1C,61   22,72              s,1n      e,865   2,638   2,S00   15,so      48,003   11,566    1.824  3s,106   6,144
2. Active Lao forc,tUlSty   go.            1.5      1.8         1.4       1.5      1.9      1.8     2.1       2.0       1.8       1.9     1.5     '.7
F. Cultivated Land
1. Taota Are        O          000 ha      416    6,560       8,026     3,630   4,558      307   2,520      6,307    3541    - 251   6,920  3I939
2. Pauy                        '000 ha      32      137         609       S40   2,804      298   1se57       3,222      16s      190      422      419
3. Dry LW                      '0000 he    110    6,423        .217     3,090    1.7S4      10      991      3,086    3,372       61   6,498   3,531
4. ir`lpted Are                000 ha      274    3,S4S         17t       223      585       0       56        307      967         0   3,054      463
5. Areejausedotd              ha          0.34      0.s        2.22       0.6      0.3    0.22    0.3S        0.26     0.56      o.27              0.9
4. autipte Crep t                             142      134         100       20      184      194     190        15       11s       247     173      103
B. Anusal Crop Proiactlin
*. Total  rasn Protin         '000 ha   2,m      20,68s      1s,69    13,072  32,820   2,36S  13,017    40,835   10,495    2,132   7,010   3,526
2. Alo - Areo                   o be        36      14          60        540   2,420      258   2,492       3,113      360       to8     477      4t8
- Yield               kW&        6,5s4    6,111       3.*2s     6,28s   7,3S0   7,020   4,S45        6,855    6,255   10.605
- latuBa              Yue.n      3,621    3,996       1,670     4,050   2.48t   1,350   2s507        2,001 1200-iso0    7,438   1,800    1,637
3.Uwet-A*ea                    'OebOh      183    2,453       1,682        31  35,303       70       29      2,919 1s,687           4   4,90        60
- tield               kgi       4,961   3t48S        2,190      2,400   3,600   3,435      975      2,895    2.790    1.380
-    1rpetaa         Tian       2,157    1,6,3        800       1,6s0   1,72    1,650      210      1,662 1300- 600    1.97   1A0    1,167
4. Maize - Area               '000 ii.     219     1,t995     1,904      1,320     501       6      533       6       1,020   s         2,087   2,219
* tld                    a       ,163    3,076       3,225     s,160    5,535  6,6ss 2,9            3,660    3,180    1,305
- IutshA             Tuan       1467    1,217          932    t1200   1,350   1,500   2,463         1,749 1200-1300    2.2SS   1800   1,216
S. Sayasi - Area               '000 ha      14      416       2,264       381      309       9      204        191      6S0        12    S5S       46
- Yield            kg/ha     2,300     1,065      1,2n5      ts    S,965   2.s38        195      1 650      930    1,245
-1 lutaiba         tan         610       670        d1       1,350     m     1soo   1,209        1,217  4e0-00   t1ss6   t,m0          761
6. Cotten - Aem               00OOhA         3      8       s              16      535       11       0        116      113   tt        1,143     -
- field              k           960       6t           0       750      900      72        0        735      690    1. 14
-   quVtC/           Yan       2,250    2,380           0      1,9O   2,300   1,21s         0      3,198  450-2700    5.124   1,800    -
7. Smpase  -Ar*a              'CODOh        13      564         134        34      s82      92   1,805        963       300       62      246    -
Yield            kbU        2,220       993        9n       1,24s   1.710   1,24    ,275        145S    1.200        wo
- qlauht           Yuen      3,601     3,85         640      1,20      93      9"0    2,420        8 11500-1900    1,m72    1,eo0    -
1. Aa,sa Llvatoek F      itian
1. Cattle - Nudit             '000          8     5,554       2,t40     1,509   m1          79      28t       648    2,416         8   sa7s       ,883 
*Preatlon            oeo ton       8        70         29        34       16       0       24         64       32         I   2,127      340
2. PIe - MIkr                 '000       4,168   14,808.      54."     to,"S   20,419   3,613   9,394   s5,456    8,122    1,78   13,200           6
- Pro~ectimn           D000 ton    1S7    1,1s6          296       741    1431      233      769      3,748      391       116  13,230   4,196                    X
3. Steep-  _aher              'O00         847    6,784       2,63      2,672   7,655      218      182     2,109    6,126        22  11,859   2,336
Pro"ttionn             Oeo ton      7        as          7         3       66       3        2         32       20         00e650 6        29 
4. Poultry   Ie                000      34,768  49,nr737       2       92,850 243,811  25,532  101tm       361,220   15,10t    7,094  2t6,M    6I,752
*P r6ctlon          'OOo ton     63        A1         75        112     31?      139     124        300       IT         8 116,304  42,4L9
J. _spit Valtue
I. Agricutture Wt    VAlU      it Yum  19,762    33,30       96,695   113,50  224,512  30,875  539,16   167,496   55,450    6,1    53,105  20,890
2. Prceof rain Prottin                      1 t7     Is          12         9        3s      s       22        2t        17       29       l2       t6
It. ferr's trfc
I. Amami Inncaes/Capita       tmi        1,3        589         535      5so      824   1,221       483       495       434      612      5t9   t7
usS,        227       100         98        106     162      224      a9        s1o0               123      98      129
2. Pcat f GrainPretdicon                    50       43 6U                 40       39       7       54        38        34       57       60
Smes P"oinil Statlist  Suaa.  a  t192
r/2/9



ht 1
-63 -                               Table 2
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Agrotechnical Extension Comionent--Prolect Areas
PATEC                       NATEC  _                                    TATES
Province                 Municipality/               County              No. of
Prefecture                                     TATES
Beijing                                             Tongxian               11
Shunyi                 14
Hiyun                  12
Huairou                11
Guangxi                     Guilin                  Lipu                   10
Gongeheug               9
Pingle                 10
Wuzhou                 Hexian                  10
Tengxisn               10
Zhongshan              10
Hebei                       Baoding                 Zhuozhou                12
Rongcheng              10
Xushui                 11.
Langfang               Sanhe                   11
Bazbou                 13
YonSqing               10
heailoUgitang                                       Wuchang                 10
Fujin                  10
Ningan                 10
Zhaozhou               10
Keshan                 10
Hunan                       Yiyang                  Nanxtan                 10
Taojlang               20



-64 -                              AM    I
Table 2
Page 2
PATEC                       HATICC                 CATEC                TATES
Province                 Muuimipality/              County               No. of
Prefecture                                    TATES
Jiangeu                     Suzhou                  Runshan                14
Wuji ang               15
Wuxian                 22
Yangzhou               Taizing                15
Yizheng                10
Hanjiang               11
JLngijiang             13
Ludong                 10
RaLan                  10
Liaoning                    Jinzhou                Yixian                  10
Beizhen                10
Jinsian                10
Dandong                Fengeheng              12
Kuandian               10
Zhenuanqu               9
ShasnxL                     Wein4n                 Nancheng                10
Chengeheug             10
Tonaguan                9
Hanshong               Nan heng               20
Mianxian               10
Chenggu                20
Shanghai                                           Fengxian                10
Chuansha               10
Sichuang                    Leshan                 Leshanshizhongqu        15
Neishan                20
Renshou                20
Nanchong               Guangan                20
Yunshan                20
Langzhong              20
Total
110-                           L                   5_2                   4



-65 -                              Tle 3
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Seed Proloct Areas
Prefecture/
Province                        Municipality                       County
Beijing                                                            Toagziln
Shunyi
Ruairou
Miyun
Tanqing
3uangxl                         Yulin                              Beiliu
Lutchuian
Wuzhou                            Tengxian
Hexian
Hebei                           Shijlazhuang                       Xinle
Liugehon
Langfaung                         Yongqing
Bazhou
Heilonjiang                                                        PuJin
Zhaozhou
Ningan
xeshan
Wuchang
Luna                            YiYang                             Nanxian
Taoji ang
Chengzhou                         Yongxing
Anren
Jiangsu                         wantong                            Raian
Rudong
Rugao
Zhsnjiang                         Yengzhang
Dantu
Lisonulg                        Dandong                            Pengeheng
Rusndian
J4nxi                             Jianchang
_iugcheng



A&Iz-1
- 66 -                            Table 3
Page 2
Prefecture/
Province                         Municipality                       County
Shaanxi                          Baoji                              Meixian
Qianyang
Hanzhong                           Nanzheng
Mianxisan
Shanghai                                                            Jiading
Chuaneha
Sichuan                          Neijiang                           Lezhi
Ziyang
Nanchong                           Guangan
Yingshan
Total
10                                                                     41



- 67 -             1
Tabe 1
AICULTURAL SOR  SERVICES PROJ%CT
Livestock Prolect Areas
Prefecture/
Province          Municipality             County                Township
Beij ing                                   Tongxian                  S
Shunyi                   5
Miyun                    4
Huairou                  4
Guangxi                                    Binyang                   6
Yongning                 6
Guigasg                  5
Bobai                    6
Rongxian                 6
Repu                     4
Laibin                   4
Rex. an                  6
Rebei                Baodiug               Zhuoz:ou                  6
Dingthou,                6
Qnhsangdao           Changli                  4
qinglong                 6
Lnf an8               Yongqing                  5
Bazhou                   5
K.ilongj             Qiqihar               Puyu                      6
DumenSg                  4
Song80a ian           Mulan                     6
Shangzbl                 5
Suihue                ZEhaodeng                 6
And,                     4
Wangktai                 4
udaujantg             Muling                    s
Renam                Luoyang               Ruyang                    5
YichLuen                 S
Pl.gdingsban          JiazX4n                   5
Yezian                   6
Zhumadian             queshAi                   5
Suiping                  5



AMB-
- 68 -                            Tsblo 4
Paso 2
Prefecturea
Province           Municipality             County                Township
Bunan                Yu.yang                Yueyang                    6
Pingjiang                 6
Zhuxhou                Liling                    6
Youxlan                   6
Hengyang               Hengyang                  6
Rengshan                  4
Jilin                Changehun              Nong'an                    6
Yushu                     5
Siping                 Gongzhuling               5
Yitong                    6
Jilin                  Jilin Jiaoqu              4
Yongji                    5
Jiache                    3
Shanghai                                    Shongjiang                 4
Pengxian                  4
Sichuan             uNnchons                LangSzhong      21&* 41b -6
Tuechi          21A+ 4/b -6
Kianyang               Santai          2/A+12&l-14
Jiangyou        2Jj+ 41b- 6
Wenjiang                  3
Zhongjimng      21&+10.b-12
Shehong         2/+aOl-12
Pengshan                  3
56               ~~~~~308
la District
1k Township



-69 -                              Table $
Page 1
AGRICULTVRAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Anlmal and Plant Ouarantine Centers
Service           Working staticn                Working characteristic
Beijing           Wulidian, Balishuang,           seeds, seedlings, animal,
Capital Airport                poultry
Dalian            Jinzhou, Yinkou,                grain, cotton, seedlings,
Bayuquan, Ganjingxhi           seeds, timber, fruit
Erlian            Erlian                         timber, animal products
Fuzhou            Majiang, Airport               grain, flower
Gongbei           Guanzha, Zongshan,             animal, poultry, meat,
Wanzhai, Jiuzhou, Doumen       egg, milk
Guangzhou         Lianhuashan, Pusbau,           pig, grain, timber,
Airport                        flower, hair/feather
Raikou            Sanya, Xingang,                 grain, seeds, seedling.,
Qinglan, Yangpu                fish, animal, poultry
uRaghzou                                          seeds, seedlings, flower,
hair, vegetable
Harbin            Heihe, Tongjisng, Jiiamus,      grain, vegetable, timber
Hulanfenhe
Kunming           Ruili, Wanding,                monkey, cattle,
Rengma, Xishusagbann           flower
Manzhouli         Shibali, Heishantou, Shiwei    timber, agricultural products
lanjing           Xinshenvei, Zhengjieng         wheat, cotton, timber,
Zhangjiagang, wantong          timber, seeds, seedlings
Qingdao           Shijiu, Lanshan                 grain, timber
seeds, seedlings,
poultry, cattle
Shanghai          Wushong, Wujing Port            grain, timber, cotton,
Hongqiao Airport               fisbmeal, hair/feather



_ 70                             Table S
Page 2
Service          Working statiou                Working characteristic
Sheuzheu         Wenjindug, Luohu, Shekou,      poultry, animal products
Shatoujisa Ruan88an8          pig, vegetable,
Aotou, Nuizhou, Dapean,        fruit
Airport
Wulumuqi          Xinjiang Region                seeds, seedlings,
chicken, frozen fish
Xiamen            Dongshan, Longhai,             aquatic products
Airport
Yantai            Weibai, Longkou               wheat, timber, fruit
Shidao                        foodstuff



1.~~~~~~7
- 71.-
AREx 2
table 1
CNI NA
Ag*leouIrnjsP 8upcert Iavfas  Prel c:
Ttaeg PraIsc: Cas: Simry
0  Yuan                                 040 U5                         X Totat
..........   ........   ....................*.-.--------------- X    rteec 
Local     foirefgn      Tacit          Lecat      forEsig       Total       Exca)twve    Costs
,.................................................. ..................................   ....................................................
A. C-2':/I:eslnsa
. Nat:onalt Aio-Tseemieat          26,934.    ZS,1e2.0       35,0%6.0       4,942.0    5,16?.0      1,1C9.0         51.1       5.1
2. ASro-TOMicat Itx. Ccv.         190,136.0  208 ,913.3    39,049.3        34,17a.4   3d,m33.1      73,220.3          52.4     36.4
Sut-*o:at                            2?7,070.0  237,075.3    454,145.3        39,819.C   43,340.1      83,319.5          52.2     41.8
S. Seed
1. Seed SUpty                      46,012.2   46,642.7.   92,65'.9          8,"2.5    8,558.3       17,00 .8        30.3       8.5
2. Seed ousLity C*ftrot            1i,7?4.9   18,514.3       38,24.2        3,625.5    3,397.1       7,025.6         48.4       3.5
Sub*To:aL                              45,7tt.t   63,157.0    134,944.1       12,071.0    1,953.4       2',02S.4         49.8      12.1
C. Ovestaci
1. fieLd Livestock Sevcs          179,506.   186,995.?   366,502.2        32,9"7.0   34,31t.1       67,241.1          51.0     33.8
2. Ltv"eoI SuWpt: Svtces    20,552.6   20,883.6             4t,43.2        3,  1.1    3,613.2       7,603.3         54.4       3.8
3. Custity Ccntrt                 *t8,01t.0   19,492.4       37,509.6       3,304.0    3,576.6       4,882.4          52.0      3.5
Sub-TotaL                             211,014.1  227,373.9   .44,450.0        40,014.1   4t,719.9       81,734.0         51.0     41,0
-. Quarantine Services                 21,678.0   32,764.0      54,142.0       4,014.3    6,011.4       10,025.9    *   60.0        5.0
Total oae, Costs                     522,311.2  362,370.2  1,035,181.4        95,928.8  103,17.0    199,115.8            51.8    1*0.0
Physicat Contingencis              42,181.?   45,853.6       88,035.3       7,739.4    8,413.3       1e,152.9         $2.1      8.1
Price Contingencis                 85,434.?   78,795.1    14,229.8         11,988.0   11,036.6      23,024.6         47.9      11.6
.............................. .................................................   ..................... ..,,.  .
Totat Preais: Costs                  630,427.6  48,018.9  1,337,4.3    115,656.2  122,637.1    238,293.3                 5t.5    119.7
I                                               **s~usussuuswusm as*auWusas*NBuauuUauUUm   SSUUUUSU*S
, ................................................................................. ..........................................
*           Januar^y 20, 1993



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1.1
UINA
Agelcuttwel Support Setvice
Smry Aceaim Cost Swury
total Project
0o0 1"                              O0  W             X           Total
..........................  ............................  .o .... *                         X Forergn  9as
Local     Foreign    Total         Local      Foreign    Total       Exchane   Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Suildfngs                        184,120.5 122,747.0  306,86?.S        33,73.6  22,522.4  56,306.0          40.0    28.3
S. Vehictes
1. Vehicles-tDA                     7,083.9  63,?54.7   To,a.d           1,2S9.8  11,698.1   12,997.9        90.0      6.5
2. Vehictes-Reservo                 5,028.6  45,257.4   50,286.0           922.?  8,304.1    9,226.8         90.0      4.6
..............................................................................   ..................
Sub Total                          12,112.5 09,012.t  121,126.6         2,2.5  20,002.2   22,224.7          90.0     11.2
C. Equfpwnnt
1. Laboratory Equpipnt            37,992.3  56,988.4   94,980.?         6,971.1  10,456.6   17,427.?        60.0      8.8
2. Livestock Equipment             4,866.1   4,866.1     9,72.2           892.9    692.9    1,765.7         50.0      0.9
3. Seed Processing  q flip t       8,109.9  8,109.9   16,219.8          1,488.1   1,4889.1    2,976.1       50.0      1.S
4. Training S Ext. Equipment       9,625.?  38,502.8   48,128.5         1,766.2   7,064.?    8,830.9        80.0      4.4
S. Office Equipmnt                21,722.7  21,722.8   43,445.5         3,985.8  3,985.8    7,971.7         50.0      4.0
6. Data Processin  Equipnt           965.8  3,863.3      4,829.1          177.2    708.9       886.1        80.0      0.4
7. OfffeeLab. Furnishings         15,424.0  6,610.3   22,034.           2,830.1  1,212.9    4,043.0         30.0      2.0
8. Adaptive Research Egu1p.          654.7     982.1     1,636.8          120.1     180.2      300.3.       60.0      0.2
8. Niscelloneous Equipmen%         6,919.5  2,965.5    9,885.0          1,269.6    544.1    1,813.8         30.0      0.9
Sub-Total                           106,280.7 144,611.2  250,891.9        19,501.0  26,534.2   46,035.2        57.6    23.1
0. Materials                          2,736.0  6,364.0    9,120.0            502.0  1,171.4    1,673.4         70.0      0.8
0. Training
1. Overseas                        4,373.4  39,360.3   43,733.7          802.5  7,222.1    6,024.5          90.0      4.0
2. tnternat                       42,523.3  18,224.2   60,747.5         7,802.4  3,343.9   11,146.3         30.0      S.6
3. Rearch                          5,421.6  3,614.4    9,036.0            994.8    663.2    1,658.0         40.0      0.8
Sur.Totat                            52,318.3 61,198.9   113,517.2         9,599.7  11,229.2  20,828.8         53.9    10.5
E. Techniclt Assistace
1. Internatinal consutt.             603.3  11,461.7   12,065.0           110.7  2,103.1    2,213.8         95.0      1.1
2. Locat Consultants               1,717.5       0.0    1,717.5           315.1       0.0      315S.1        0.0      0.2
ub-Totat                              2,320.8  11,461.7   13,782.5           425.8  2,103.1    2,528.9         83.2      1.3
Total INVESTMENT COStS              359,866.8 455,414.9  815,303.7        66,034.6 83,562.4  149,597.0         55.9    75.1
,................................................ .................................  .....................................................
II. REaCRRENT COSTS
,...................
A. 051 Vehicles-IDA                  16,982.6  16,982.6   33,9f5.2         3,116.1   3,116.1    6,232.1        50.0      3.1
Se 0L9 Vehictes-Resere               14,603.4  14,603.4   29,206.8         2,69.5  2,679.5    5,35".0          50.0      2.7
C. Oa   ufiltdfing                   33,5S6.5   3,25m.5   37,285.0         6,15T.2    684.1    6,841.3         10.0      3.4
0. 01 Egquipmnt                      35,523.0  35,522.7   71,045.?         6,518.0  6,51T.9  13,035.9          50.0      6.5
E. Locat Slaries                     18,304.4       0.0   18,304.4         3,358.6       0.0    3,358.6         0.0      1.7
F. SPF Egg Prodacticn                 3,296.1   2,198.7    5,496.8           605.2    403.4    1,008.6         40.0      0.5
G. Consuables 
1. Laboratory Consumabtes         13,830.2  11,315.6   25,145.8         2,537.7  2,076.3    4,613.9         45.0      2.3
2. Audio-Viual Consueables        15,617.1  15,617.2   31,234.3         2,86S.5  2,865.5    S,73 .t         50.0      2.9
3. Office/Coap. Ccnsumebtas        9,098.7  6,082.5    15,181.2         1,669.5   1,116.1    2,?85.5        40.1      1.4
4. Adaptive Res. Cerauixbles       2,108.4    903.6    3,012.0            386.9    165.8       5S2.7        30.0      0.3
Sutb-Total                           40,654.4  33,918.9   74,53.3           ,459.5  6,223.7  13,683.2          45.5      6.9
................................  ... ................................. ............................... .....................................
Total RECURRENT COSTS               162,922.4 106,954.8  269,877.2        29,894.0  19,624.7  49,518.8         39.6    24.9
Totat BASELINE COSTS                522,611.2 562,369.? 1,065,180.9       95,928.7 103,187.1  199,115.8        51.6   100.0
Physical Contingencies            42,181.? 45,eW.6   68,035.3           7,79.4  8,413.5  16,152.9           52.1      8.1
Price Contingencies               S5,434.7  78,795.5  164,230.2        11,988.0  11,036.6   23,024.6        47.9    11.6
Total PROJECTS COSTS                650,427.6 687,018.6 1,337,446.4      115,656.1 122,637.2  238,293.3        51.5    119.7
.............................................................................................................................
01/20/93



- 73 -
AMEX 2
Table 1.2
CNINA
Arloicattirl 1          S  evfc  Project
Touat Proc  casut 3iW.y
Om0 Yuan                               am0 I1                            Totet
e.oat     Foreign      Tott           Lout      Forten        totac       UAxc4ief6    Cit:s
................................. .............................. ..................................   ..................................................
A. Cio/xA fans
I. ilatimat Age* Toomlaet         t2,9.0   19,716.0        42,2c.0        4,133.8    3,t1.6       7,t.4            e.        3.9
2. Agiro4e-T1nicas h:.  Oev.      186,455.0  2C7,461.0    n 1.0          3/,lttl.9   34,102.9     72,314.9        52.7      36.3
3. Projec: Managatom:  ,ppoet    8,086.0    9,498.3        17,76  3       1483.7    1,79.          3, 24.2        54.S       1.6
Sub Tecc!                  2tJ O?C,07.O  23?,075.3   454,14.3.    39,8U9.4  43.5.10.       83,129.4         52.2      41.8
B. Seed
1. Sted Supty                       ,012.2        2.?      92,654.9           t.1     ,55.3      17,0.8           50.3       8.5
2. Seed  uatlty Coutrot            18,979.9  18,514.3    37,494.2         3,'2.6    3,397.1       4,8?V.7         49.4       3.5
3. Project mwwget: *upt               795.0        00           95.0        V45.9        0.0         145.9         0.0       O.1
St*?oat                               455,78.1  65,157.0    130,9(4.        12,071t.0  *tt955.4      24,025.4        49.8      12.1
C. Livestock
1. Fetld Lvstok Sce                 5993.0  184,41.?   360,444.7        32,2        3,8.0        46140.3          s1.2      33.2
2. Iva:escle S4pmt Serviest   20,552.6  20,865.6           41,*t  .2      3,7.1    3,63.2         *,60.3          50.4       3.8
3. Ost ty Conte                    18,017.0   19,492.6    3,509.6         3,306.0   3,S56.6        4,862.6        $2.0      S35
5. Project manageot suppoC          3,513.5    2,524.0      6,037.          64.7       461.1       1,107.6        41.8       0.6
................................   - ------------          -         --- r--- ...    ..................---------
SlIb.Tcat                            211,076.1  227,37.9       5U,40.0      40,014.1  41,719.9       81 ,36.0         51.0     41.0
O. ue cinet Src                       21,878.0  32,7s.0    54,42.0           4,014.3    6,011.6      10,25.9          600       5.0
Toat lase Coests                     52,811.2  52,370.2  1,065.1a1.4        95,928.8  103,187*.0    19", 1I.7         51.     100.0
Physicat Centfigencts                ,81.7 U 45,653.6    88,035.3         ?,759.4    8,413.5      16,152.9        52.1       8.1
Price Cntinle es                  85,4.7   179.           14,229.8       1,96.0   11,036.6       23,02.4          47.9      11.6
.~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                          .
_,........................................ .... ..... f*.................................... ..................
Tecat Projct cCuts                   650.427.6  611t 0t8.9  t 33t,44e.5    11U 6Z.2  t22,6VA t          238,.2        5t.5    119.7
................................................................................          ................... ....................
-owary 20 t99



- 74 -
Table 1.3
bINA
Projeto: Copoents by Y.w
... . * ..... vw. .....   .......................................
1n3        199        199       196       199?      19e9    000 Yrun    M  uss
t. Ciwpjtie"ufo
A. Nettanel Aq-tee.ni4el         23,611.2    8,476.8   2,807.6   2,497.8   2,338.3   2,113.3       42,244.9    T,751.4
S. *gae ?eelnfee  6:. 0ev.
1. Pro1ale.3,311.0   5,3t41.0                                                                    s1,t30.0   14,996.3
2. pOreRu t,Ifpat LeeL          1,101.9   s,7n3.2   4,541.9   3,1t.s9  3,727.3   1,72F.3         63,573.5   11,644.9
3. County Level                13,632.4  88,19?.?   1 U47.o6  8,n1.1   8,506.3   8,314.3   137,691.3   23,301.2
*. Tohfp ttev                   3,422.1  77,281.5   7,824.3  7,330.3  7,S30.3   r,530.3    110,931.0  20,332.5
Su-total                         3e,074.9  240,099.?  29,3.1  23,307.1  23,114.9  24,954,9    394,115.6   72,314.8
C. Prof. Manaemen:t  uFport       9,192.6    2,23t.z    1,8".3   141.3   1,46.3  1t,48.3           17,24.7   3,263.2
.*4.s4..*4****^^w**44*4^q*...4.x***;...    ..............*.* 4... .........
focal  e ropS*tnuo                 63,073t.8  2n1,02?.r  33,054.0  39,46.4  21,939.7  28,33..?   454,145.2   83,339.4
tt. Seed
t...
A. Sead Suppty
1. C-:ruy Lavel               33,021.9  2V,8M.3   10,495.1  4,019.3   4,339.0   4,339.0   8n,0C7.6   1591t7.7
2. P'ef.turs/NMIcipal           3,384.2   2,14..2       9C-.3     4303..    389.9     39.9        7,4S7.2    1,403.2
***~~.**e*******+.^*** ............................................................ .+ ......  .. .... ...*....... .^*^.^. ............. 
"-wat           *                3 i,415.1  25,9132.5   l,399.4  6.,9.7   4,728.9   4,735.9        92,63'.5   17,00.8
8. lead Ouslity Contrlt
1. Provfnfat ttee              4,74".9    7,10C.1    1,10s.5   1,28O.1   1,2.    t2S.           20,428.2    3,J 7.9
2. Runietpeoltprfecure         6,8173    4,568.3  1I.3.5  1,835.5   1,09.2   1,039.2             17,068.0   3,t31.7
-acal                            13,6.2   11,617.1    4,409.0   3,105.4   2,233.6   2,254.6        37,494.2    4,879.?
C. Project  Hana   si.              132.5      132.5      132.5    132.1    13235       132.3         n5.0       143.9
Totat  d Sa,171.8  40,682.1                                                             7,116.0   130,943.?  24,02.4
1tt. lvetoolc
A. Field Livestck  e
I  PrvinoeL t   8s            25,43.7  41,287.1   6,914 4  4,410.3   4,821.3   4,47.8           89,486.6   16,54.3
2: 9r.ftewre Am's              18,867.0   26,668.0   6,501.2  4,5m.t 1 3,49.1   3,404.5          43,614.9   11,672.5
3. Coty Ar/SCs                 39,597.4   74,144.0  14,29.2  12,49.89  10,2t3.3   9,982.7   142,796sr  29,871.0
4. Teownshp A11u5s             12,677.   2S,01.8   2,49.3   1,M30.2  1,618.6          700.?    44,366.4   s,t14.4
Sub-total.                       96,785.8  147,336.9  33,209,1  23,224.1  20.212.S  18,691.7    380,444.5  46,144.3
SPro. Maagmnt  uPt    2,971.0                 613.0      413,2    613.3      613.5     613.6       6,037.6    1,107.8
C  Lfv"tatc    re tveS   7,080.3   23,513.4   3,411.8  2.52.2  2,89.2   2,201.2                   41,438.1    7,803.3
. Oulity Centrol                 7,35.1   21,829.8   3,063.2   1,87.4   1,64.0   1,538.2    37,509.7   4,883.5
Totat LIvestzck                   11,382.2  213,293.1  39,351.3  30,24r.4  24,961.2  23,041.?   445,49.9  s1,n3.9
tV.   uaranim service               2,203.3   31,m.2   6,351.0  4,394.2   3,317.4   2,598.7r    34,442.0  10,026.1
Toct 3ASS  RE COSTS               29,836.1  540,t80.1   9 I  ,7.2  3,8$15.8  44,363.3  41,311.1  1,085,180.8  199,115.7
Phys1cat CenIngmf4Cls          23,377.0  523463.7   4,964.3  3,150.3   2,218.0   1,W42.2         86,035.4   18,153.9
price Concf09enfmes            16,248.3. 72,602.3  16,439.2  17,54.2  19,293.7  21,902.1   144,229.1  23,024.6
^ Z.oZo.*4Xs6*.*...............................................  * .......... *. .......   .  e*v ..................*
locat 9RUMr C0T0                  349,44t.4  85,44.1  114,490.7 94,St0.3  85,873.1  85,062.4  1,337,44.9  238,293.2
w         ---.                                                      _"
Jwaia. r . 2, 19.3......................................................... ............................
Jwry 2t, IMs



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1.4
UIIA
7fct     age"a "by ?es
Fo,fn 6txhag
1993       1994      1993    1996    1997    1998         otcal 
t. IiW14311T COST?1
;. 6u11d1619                    117,913.?   184,816.2  2,998.      0.0    e0.0       0.0   304,87.4        40.0   1U,747.0
1. 740Ic41 7,e73.0   e0,316.4   1,6s9.0    70.0                          0.0      0.0   70,838.6        90.0     a,t.7
3. lIgIoloa.3esaXve          10,116.0   37,1.0   3,310.0       0.0      0.0      0.0 1oo e ,360        "0.0    43r17.4
6a*1euaL Vahloles                18,389.0   97,816.6  4,189.0    710.0      0.0      0.0   121,124.6       90.0   109,012.1
I. Lt.toY #Pw                 13,964.0   T9'29.5   1,743.3      0.0      0.0      0.0    94L,90.8       4.0 0   56',.3
2.Livestockc EquIpn           1,466.?r    7,943.4    119,1     3.0    0CI.O9722                         00      4,6.
3. Sad Processing Eip.         3,203      7,441.8   1,317.9    739.6     0.0      0.0   16,21.8         10.0   68,109.9
T. Raining &  t. equip.        2,3.1    ;43,7 19.4      9.2      3.9     3.9      3.9    48,126.4       80.9    38.,310.
1. 0ffe 1      n Equspm;nt 11,481.    30,788.8   914.3   374.7           0.1     4.1   438,43.1        51.0    21,722.8
6. Oicst Presusslng EquIn        00.      3,901.1      9.        0.0     0.0      0.0    4,89.1         80.0    3,6.3
7. Off Iat/Lo. Awnhfns         I.  2.3    4.4,1*.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0    6,018.3        30.0    1,9. .6
8. EulidInE ibg nfehif;        2,181.0    1 1,911.0   1,3.0   100.0      0.0      0.0    11,976.0       30.0     4,a92.8
9. Adaptve *.Aatah Eqalp.         46.3    1,294.       92.0    68.0    68.0    46.0a    1,636.3         49.0       98. 1
10. Nisellaneous Equipmentt    2,31.9    7,07.2.      238.     II.5   104.1    97.:1    9,88.9          30.0     a.96.3
S'jbtatat                        39,168.3   191.1 9,123.3  1,399.?   176.1   169.1   210,891.8             17.6   144,411.1
D. N.t.eI.ts                      1,638.     2,514.0       0.0   108.       0.0      0.0    9,130.0        70.0     6,384.0
1.t 0~Rt3ses3,399.6   13,8131.9  10,074.3  1,660.4   767.1                        0.0    43,733.?       90.0    39,195.3
2. lnta'n.l t    Z1, 7.2   19,933 3  10,2 226  6,468.7  4,714,2  2,621 4   40,747.4                     30.0    18,224.2
3. *euas.h                     6,492.0      870.0    100.0   42.0:    428.0   318.0    9.03.4.          40.0     3,614.4
sula-tatat                   u3,8         34,6331.  20,79.9 i2,11r1  1,909.?  2,939.4.  113,11_.1       13.9    61,199.0
P. ?.d,nI.al Aufstawca
I. Ineanstfsnat 0wmuttmnt      1,461.5    2,901.    2,027.0   617.0   411.0   440.0   12,063.0          "A.    11,461.8
2. Leet  Cutt                    747.0      292.      239.3   173.3   121.0   1C4.        1,I17.         0.00.
Eub.toi.I.              ~~~~~~~6,4121.1    3,197.0   2,266.1   790.3   176,0    W1400    13,732.1  83.2    11,461.8
............................................................................                    .......
lotbi 1wJE111163? 80511         224,639.4  1124,991.   39,114.1 16,W0.3  6,462.2  3,24a.9   8t1,3.4        1        51
It. measout cost
0. 06*z VsttLsO                     34.       ,4.       ,4.    ,3.    ,8 .0 748.0   33,964,7               10.0    16,982.4
amGNVhet.eev                      4147.81    3,432.9   6,133.0  6,266.9  6,246.9  6,246,9    29,206.4    30.0    14,603.2
0.GN suI Idlngs                    13.1    3.,401.3   8,160.0  8A.74.  8,420.8  8,420.8    37,84.7       10.0    3,728.1
cm OUtEqipsme                     637.6    ?,081.4  1461816,163.3 14,230.4 16,261.6    71,0486.2         10.0   3s3,23.1
K.Loca SetarI.s                  1,920.2     ,00.    3,22.0  3,3131.1  3,346.9  3,382.9    18,384.0       0.0         0.0
L. W? Ein Production                100.0    1,079.4   1,079.4  1,079.4  1,079.4  1,079.4    1,497.0       40.0     2,190.8
N. ConAuIbtes
1. Labor'atory Cuiwmwbte         419.6    4,446.3   1,177.1  4,979. 7  4,966.7  4,936.7   33,146.1      43.0    11,311.?
2. AidiIoVIaust CmnwAabl,        341.8    1,911.1   6,240.1  4,281.1  6,263.2  6,211.1    31,234.4      30.0    13,617.2
3. 0ff Io.ICw  Conomiabts        627.4    2,127.6   2,93a .82902,9 ,967.12,97.1    13,181.3             40.0     6,072.1
4. AdaptIwo let. Censumble        0.        48.0  4S 54.1    43.3   434.1   629.9    3,012.4            30.0       903.7
"-Zotst                 ~~~~1,106.7   13,133.0  11,4023.  14,680.6 14,833.1 14,77.8   74,174.1    43.3    33,909.1
TaU  *5fEC51g COSTS               1,9.       3,6.      3,910.7 17,61.1 37,700.9 917,69.4   269,877.1       3.      0,4.
Tostl SAELtISE CUsTS            229,636.1   160,M3.3  93,046.9 73,813.6 64-,343.1 61,311.3 1,408,1810.1    11.8   362,359,9
PhysI cal ConEngeices         a3,377.0      41,463.?   4,98..3  3,130.3  2,21.0  11,81..2   88,033.1    1.111   48,107.
Pet-to Conti-Ngdene           16,248.3   72,402.3  14,439.3  1714.31929.  21,902.1   144,229.           48.     30,021.0
forels Ewhng                 133,39G.?  392,140.1  1,411.3 42,381.3 NOVA1.  34,008.1   696,389.0       100.0   696,389.0
JaftOAa i1, 1993



-76-
Sable 2
AgrIcuLtural Support S4vIOa PrOj. ct
Proect Cost Sumfr
Crop/xteansia Caqmnt
Coo Yuan                                No UW                      X total
...................................... -    .---. .-..---S...foreign   See
Ltocl      Foreign      Total       Local       Foreign      total    nSxcwO        Costs
.................................  ............................................. ....................................._..................
A. PIetot  Agr-Technicalt             22,529       19,716      42,245       4,134       3,617        r,75l        47          9
S. Agro Technfal tExt. 0ev.
1. Profvatcl Ltvel                 37,166      44,564       t,1730      6,819        8,177      14,996         5S        l8
2. Prof/ Iicipel Leve              32,845      30,?29      63,574       6,027        5,638      11,"6          48        14
3. County Level                    7,03        64,854    137,891        13401       1 t,900     25,301         47        30
4. TeAwhip Letl                    43,407      67,514    110,921         7,963      12,366      20,353         61        24
................................. ...............................4................
Sub-otetl                            186,455     20r,461    394,116        34,312      38,103       72,35         53        87
C. ProJ. ieansgAnt SuAot               8,086        9,698      1T,784       1,414       1,779       3,263         55          4
................................ ............................. ........... .................. _.....  ................
Touat SASLINS CTS                    217,070    237,075    454,145         39,820      43,499      83,329         5a       I00
Ph*fctl Cantfingentes              17,366      18,966      36,332       3,186        3,480       ,4,66         2a         a
Pric  contfneactes                 36,849      35,465      72,314        5,102       4,876       9,978         49        12
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~................................ ........................................................ .....................................
iotal 1 Ct  CTS                         ,285     291,506    562,791        4,18        51,8S5      99,973         52       120
4an 19, 1993
.. . ,~~~~~~~~ .                                                           .              *..  ,,* ;.,4



M6t '6t LAw-P
..............................................................................................................................
..................                                                                    t..............a..  .................... $,.I=........................... ....................
0 2t       6             L 4.6  ;7       4L-te"        D-ZDl'S       1-tIS'          S-"It97C      *-97  '                    jl:              eIJd
Ws          M& Z R        0"9g 9              0- t     6-o: bl UL'   C Z''5          *^%'t   * tzCtt                      8&jMASVJ270 1921Ad
0-OOt    2-t              2-55t-"t        0-D2C-     1-621S         l'C Vvit vt       ' tlO't  D't0-tL2z                        S1     lXlilSTB  }e7D1
......... .......................   ................................. ............................... I.I............................
f'64-      ?I vy          [-X'MIt        Elg'01     t-fosl7          S'". '11       V W0 7"       WSWU                        Sit=   01111011  IR20
z-tt    WIMP              vmNit6         VEWIP   MCI    e-t"'Of    .'uf    rm -0'u2'*:
,..................   ........... ..................   ....................... ... ......
'-D       V-ot           6-CSI           BID           I-ZS          clog            0-U          0-Ut                 014        *1Xat t*
?-&    2-CX               6-6S   el i-n                I'vii         r"6'    ra't   VrWt                            -Iqo--  'Av.0;o st
L-        D-s             - "       9    a7"'I    r-vu't            67-e't          el tog'I         W"S6             -Iq --   AJ03t' *[
!-2        0-              -tl             -            -<'           -t6            DID          9S-C2C6                          soJ214o  lita    *
5-     log         9-7&0'9    tic'tD'   riDDt    -'K                         C-l696t'9t  8SIM91                              3ue1*1 M  *3
clog O-O            *901.C          r-SiS'       2-S'2I         O-cotW't       O-U6'51    WM6S %;-n
_ .............. ..................... _ .................................   ..................................
C-2        O-Ot           9-S6B'1        t-176        S-LS6          S-0501.        rmt91        rt-9's                 M-01t-841*10  NW0 't
e-S        aO-O           B-OUlt         VSOSPL *    -oolt           V-66VIt         J67L'B   1-67Z't                         VC."plv)A I            tlO*
*  .                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...................
..................... _........ ................................ I.. ...........................    ..................................
i-U        t-SS           t-o79'H5       L-52S't          9-sut'f    r9-W   61c      I-719'19t1 2'20'#1                      Sim   INDWSUMl 4t
............................................... ..................... I.........................................   ..................................
S-l        S-06           -DSil          S -t52'1      9-521      ottS'L             9111's    L-e69S 9e.
...................................... ......................... ..............................................   ..................................
1-0       CO             9-09            D-O          *-OS           O-KS            O-D          WO-D                      Oaug :1r3 ttwl 
S'l    C-C6    R-6:t'[~~9  S-tS'   0-99                    D-S61'    s1 m9   L-6tc                         7-lfwv  jvr 0- LHJ7:"  '
9 t   L  "          7LI'Ltj       2-sez't    V-f'06             D I           --'1         D-2tS'IZ                                  tt;:- - S'i
..............   .................................... ........................ ................................................................
S      lo I   -0     -621'1         f-tt         9 S'Dfi       O-525'B          7-$' OR        St  * rsuJJwI  *mo                                *
O's        C,D ot             191,7       ; P2'1       I'tV6'        %-LM-t          V73S 9       VIJS'St                              lo$ut.W  -2
S-lt       0-06           Stil SQS'           OSticl    [lost          -t61'a        L'uSL        S-61S                                sek5&4^  I*1
0-1   C-U           9-tB            616 1S 'L72                 0'66S'Sv       t C-t1         V675 Vl:JI   O-0
2-7   t-9           92-.1101        S-'5N'21   f'6t'S          7':16'60t    7-tSI9S    0-91S'ES                                         1"ltat:
...................................... ......................... ..............................................   ..................................
SI         clo C-Q       -t6'2           V6-S         0olsor        G Ue6'SI        S-ul 26'       -iv1'1                $14siwjp  buipling *;
S-O        0-Dt           7YC7.           6-Wt         $S-I          G' ttD'         b'1'           -"            luriJrbs 5uJssv=jd tato -
t-C        C-DS           t-7  ty        7-J9l2        *i-.,-,'        -C7S'S        9'196'11    t S2'LU'                    awidift    *71ii4 'S,
S'L        cOtO           S-C97'9        t-B['C        vAu           A 75'5t1         C-Yd?'S2    6-B9'i          awabEt *b a   2V IulumirJ    *2
VI         0-09           S-621'q        ruoLtt    ric-I'            9 7S7'lc        r-t70'Ct   9'@S'tlt                 4-Wn    Aj*2#joq l *t
S'OI       e'o6           6-S2D6          $I M  It?    *-tO6            ai   O'D9'     "-It'lT    O-1'cW                                  J      RMt-
..................         ............................. .......................................................
0    01C  6         t tSSl          WINS         SS    S tDS 0lteo             r6tl  t              D    ISDt                rOt t1vlkA '
*t   ODID           6 99'Ct   BS-D'S  S-OD%S  L 79t6DI  e-SU                                 SM91S9                                 Iu mne v
........... L6................ X................ ............................................. ..................................
IUAN -% nww A
:st"*            14ft W_ l:ltW}X
Z xi



-78-
ANNEX 2
Table 2. 2
CHINA
Agricuttural Support Services Project
Project Cost Summary by Province
Crop Compcnent
............................................................................................
'000 Yuan                    000S                  X Total
..  .............    ....................... ------  X Fore1gn  sase
Province               Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total  Exchange   Costs
............................................................................................
Bast Costs
National Level         26,934   28,162   55,096    4,942    5,167   10,109           51      100
6uanxI                 22,616   25,376   47,992    4,150    4,656    8,806           53      100
Hunan                  10,206   10,401   20,607    1,873    1,908    3,781          S0       100
Shaanxi                22,622   26,002   48,624    4,151    4,771    8,922           53      100
Heol.ongljang          13,096   14,803   27,899    2,403    2,716    5,119          53       100
Jiangsu                28,459   28,326   56,785    5,222    S,197   10,419          50       100
Shanhai                 8,188    9,186   17,374    1,502    1,686    3,188          S3       100
Slchuan                27,659   30,547   58,206    5,075    5,605   10,680           52      100
Lfsonfng               17,912   20,390   38,302    3,287    3,741    7,028          53       100
Hebei                  23,564   25,364   48,928    4,324    4,654    8,978          52       100
Beijing                15,814   18,519   34,333    2,902    3,398    6,300           54      100
...................... ........................ ................
Total                 217,070  237,076  454,146   39,831   43,499   83,330          52       100
, .............................. ....................... ....................................... ................
Costs tnclude Contingencies
...........................
Ntonal. LeveL          33,038   33,95S   66,993    5,939    6,103   12,042           51      119
Guangxi                28,380  .31,349   S9,?Z9    S,021    5,S65   10,586          53       120
3unan                  12,818   12,838   25,656    2,268    2,281    4,S49           50      120
shaanxf                28,374   32,102   60,476    5,024    5,700   10,724           53.     120
Heil.oIjfang           i6,226   17,979   34,205    2,889    3,213    6,102          53       119
Jiwgsu                 35,536   34,899   70,435    6,287    6,196   12,483          S0       120
Shanghai               10,279   11,342   21,621    1,818    2,014    3,832           53      120
Sichuan                34,719   37,672   72,391    6,144    6,691   12,835          52       120
Liaonfng               22,448   25,148   47,S96    3,974    4,465    8,439          53       120
Hebel                  29,607   31,369   60,976    5,237    5,568   10,805           52      120
Beijing                19,860   22,853   42,713    3,517    4,059    7,576           54      120
.     .......................... ........................  ................
Total Costs           271,285  291,506  562,791   48,118   51,855   99,973           52      120
........................................................................................
January 19, 1993
,~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . .. *  ,                                          .  



. . - ~~79  
ANNE2 2
Table 3
4~~
aIcsULTuRaI. SJo Tu  SEVtCtS MPOJIC
ProaIc: cost sw,ary
S44d Ce_t
Yua n                                     caoo us s                          x rocat
................................    ............................. X ForeignS
Local      forefgn         Toeat            Locl.       oe*fgn       Tacit          exchenge    casts
................................    ............................................. ........................ .....................................
A. Sead StPpy
1. Couty Lvet                         42,33'.4   42,673.3    85,007.7              7,767.7    7,830.0   15,597.?                 50.2 z         .9
2. Prefacture uz  1cfpat                3,677.8    3,969.4         7,647.2           674.8        728.3    1,6403.1              51.9         5.8
~~~~~~~. ................................ .............................    ....................................... .........
Sub-7a:at                                 46,012.2   44A,g.?           92,634.9        8,442.5    8,55w.3   17,000.1                 50.3        70.8
B. Seed auutlty Cntrotl
1. Peavfnclat Level                   10,088.4   10,337.8    20,426.2              1,851.t    1 896.8    3,rs7.9                ...6         15.6
Z. Nunfcfpat/Pref.cture                 8,891.5  s,176.5    17,0a .0               1,631.6    1,500.3    3,131.8                 47.9        13.C
................................   .............................. ............ ........:.........
Sb-TotaL                                   18,979.9   18,514.3    37,494.2             3,412.6    3,397.1    6,879.7                 49.         23.6
C. Projett "N amenht                          795.0           0.0 o.0                     145.9          0.0       145.9              0.0         0.6
TOl USAtSUNE  COSTS                       65,787.1   6s,tsr.0   130,9"4.1             12,071.0   11,955.4   24,026.4                 49.8       100.0
Phticat Caficrlneno s                   4,99.8    4,95.9           9,95.8            917.4        98.6    1,826.0                49.8         7.6
Price Contingenciso                    10,013.1    7,297.0    17,310.1             1,440.5    1,183.0    2,623.5                 43.1        10.9
,~ ............................................ .............................    ...............................................
Total. PRoCT CosTS                       s8,8 .0   7,405.9   158,204.0                14,428.9   14,047.0   28,43.9                  49.3       118.5
=                  ,1993.............................................................................................



- 80 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3.1
CHINA
Ageriultural  Support Serv1ces
Sunmry Accotmts Cost Sur3iry
Seed Colpanent
000 Yuan                             000 USS                    X Totat
............................   ..........................*   S foreign    ae
LocaL    Ferolen       Total          Local   Foreign   Totat        Exchange    Costs
...............................   ............................................. .................................................. .........
t. IWESTMENT COSTS
...................
A. 8uItdIngs                        25,022.9  16,681.9   41,704.8         4,591.4  3,060.9  7,652.3            40.0      31.3
B. Vehicles
1. Vehictes-tDA                      996.0    6964.0       9960.0         182.8   1644.8   1827.6           90.0        7.6
2. Vehictes-Renerve                  785.6    7070.4       7856.0         144.1   1297.3   1441.4           90.0        6.0
...............................   ............................................. ....................... ....................................
Sub Total                           1781.6   16034.4    17816.0           326.9   2942.1   3269.0           90.0       13.6
C. Equfpment
1. Laboratory Equipment          1,915.8   2,873.7    4,789.4            351.5    527.3    878.8           60.0        3.7
2. Seed Processing Equip.        6,109.9   8,109.9   16,219.9          1,488.1  1,488.1  2,976.1           50.0       12.4
3. office EquIpment               1,743.4   1,743.4    3,486.8           319.9    319.9    639.8           50.0        2.7
...............................   ........................... ................ ............... ..............................................
Sub-Total                           11,769.1  12,727.0   24,496.1         2,159.5  2,335.3  4,494.7            52.0      18.7
0. Materlals                         1,386.3   3,234.7    4,621.0           254.4    593.5    847.9            70.0       3.5
C. Training
1. oveseas                          139.7   1,257.J    1,396.7            25.6    230.6    256.3           90.0        1.0
2. Internal                      4,891.6   2,096.4    6,988.0            897.5    384.7  1,282.2           30.0        5.3
............................................... ...........................   ..............................................
Sub-Total                            5,031.3   3,353.4    8,384.7           923.1    615.3  1,538.5            40.0       6.3
F. Technicat Assistance
1. Internatfonal Consultant          24.5      465.5       490.0           4.5      85.4      89.9         95.0        0.4
2. Local Consultants                979.0        0.0       979.0         179.6       0.0    179.6           0.0        0.7
_............................................... ...........................   ..............................................
Sub-Total                            1,003.5      45.5    1,469.0           184.1      85.4    269.5           31.7       1.1
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS              45,994.?  52,496.9   98,491.6         8,439.4  9,632.5 18,071.9            53.3      75.2
...............................   ............................................. ....................... ....................................
it. RECURRENT COSTS
,...................
A. OEM Vehite*s-lOA                  2,840.6   2,840.6    5,681.2           521.2    521.2  1,042.4            50.0       4.3
S. O&M Vehcltes-Reserve              2,544.7   2,544.7    5,089.4           466.9    466.9    933.8            50.0       3.9
C. O&M Buildings                     5,212.1      579.1     5,791.3         956.4    106.3  1,062.6            10.0       4.4
D. o0M Equipment                     4,707.?   4,707.7    9,415.5           863.8    863.8  1,727.6            50.0       7.2
E. Local Sbtarfes                    1,908.9        0.0    1,908.9          350.3       0.0    350.3            0.0       1.4
F. Consumables
t. Laboratory Carowuables  .  1,7M7.5   1,452.7    3,228.2               325.8    266.5    592.3           45.0        2.5
2. Office/Coop. Conmumabte          802.8      535.2    1,338.0          147.3      98.2    245.5          40.0        1.0
,............................................... ...........................   .................................... .........
Sub-Total                            2,578.3   1,987.9    4,566.2           473.1    364.?    837.8            43.5       3.5
......... ...............  ..................... .............................   ..................
Total RECURRENT COSTS               19,792.3  12,660.0   32,452.5         3,631.7  2,322.9  5,954.5            39.2      24.7
Total SASULINE COSTS                65,787.0  65,156.9  130,944.1        12,01.1 11,955.4 24,0t6.4             49.8    100.0
Physlcat Contingencies           4,999.8   4,951.9    9,951.7            917.4    908.6  1,826.0           49.8        7.6
Price Contingencies             10,013.2   7,297.1   17,310.3          1,440.5  1,183.0  2,623.5           45.1       10.9
Total PROJECTS COStS                80,80.0  77,405.9  158,206.1    14,429.0 14,047.0 28,4n.9                  49.3    118.5
.................................................................................................................
1/19/93



-81-
AMNEX 2
Table  3.2
CHINA
Agricuttural Support Services Project
Project Cost Sumary by Province
Seed Conmpwnt
000 Yuan                   OGOS                         X Total
..Z......   ....... .. .    ...... .................   X foreign  Base
Province               Local  Fo eIgn    Total    Local  foreign    Total  Exchange   Costs
........................................... :............................ ?....................
ease Costs
Gu.ngxi                8,135    8,015   16,150    1,493    1,470    2,963         50       100
Hunan                  5,100    5,280   10,380       936       969    1,905       51       100
Shaanxf                6,049    6,021   12,070    1,110    1,105    2,215         50       100
Reflongjiang           6,907    7,221   14,128    1,267    1,325    2,592         51       100
Jiangsu                7,904    7,984   15,888    1,450    1,46S    2,915         S0       100
Sh-anhat               4,059    3,900    7,959       745       715    1,460       49       100
SBchuen                6,843    5,893   12,736    1,256    1,081    2,33?         4O       100
Liaonfng               5,077    4,932   10,009       932       905    1,837       49       100
mH el                  8,s46    8,258   16,804    1,568    1,515    3,083         49       100
BeIjing                7,166    7,653   14,819    1,315    1,404    2,719         52       100
.......................................... .........................  ................
Total Base Costs      65,786   65,157  130,943   12,072   11,954   24,026         50       100
Costs Include Contingencles            -
...........................
Guangxf                10,113    9,751   19,864    1,802    1,743    3,545        49       120
Hunan                  6,292    6,352   12,644    1,122    1,139    2,261         S0       119
Shaanxf                7,412    7.212   14,624    1,327    1,29       2,622       49       118
Ileilongjfang          8,29S    8,401   16,696    1,493    1,523    3,016         50       116
Jfangsu                9,809    9,s?     19,588    1,746    1,741    3,487      . 50       120
Shanghai               4,971    4,649    9,620       88        83s    1,723       48       118
Sichuan                8,394    7,108   15,502    1,496    1,270    2,766         46       118
Llaontng               6,333    6,010   12,343    1,122    1,071    2,193         49       119
"obe                  10,337    9,717   20,054    1,857    1,754    3,611         49       117
lefjing                8,844    9,427   18,271    1,576    1,676    3,252         52       120
Totat Costs Include  80,800   78,406  159,206   14,429   14,,047   28,476         49       119
Contingencies       *ZUUU2ZUSZUUU            ZU BU ZU3uWsUUZsma-    UUUUDE=22UB3=us
............................................................................................
Jan 19, 1993
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A



-82-
AtEX 2
Table *4
CHINA
Agricuttural Support Services
ProIect Cost Swuary
Livestock and QuarantSne Components
a000 Yuan                           looa uss                      x Total
...............................   .....................             . -  Fbrefujn   Base
Local    Foreign       Total       Local    Foreogn        Total.  Exchange    Costs
A. ffeld Livestock Services
1. Provincala  AHVSC's         44,857.5   44829.1   89,686.6    8,230.7    8,225.5   16,456.2              M0.o      17.9
2. Prefecture AHVSC's          31,416.8   32,198.1   63,614.9    5,764.6    5,907.9   11,672.5             50.6      12.7
3. County AHVS0 s               77,338.2   85,458.5  162,796.7   14,190.5   15,680.5   29,871.0            52.5      32.6
4. Towmship AHVSC's             22,380.4   21,986.0   44,366.4    4,106.5    4,034.1    8,140.6            49.6       8.9
Sub-Total                     175,92.9  184,471.7  360,464.6   32,292.3   33,848.0   66,140.3              51.2      72.1
B. Livestock Support Services
1. National ANVSC               6,043.2    6,84f5.6   12,888.8    1,108.9    1,256.1    2,365.0            53.1       2.6
2. SPF Egg Production           9,401.8    7,434.8   16,836.6    1,725.1    1,364.2    3,089.3             44.2       3.4
3. Animal/Forage Genetic RC   2,309.4    3,060.4    5,369.8            423.7      561.5       985.2        57.0       1.1
4. Net. Vet. Ofag. Ref. Lab   2,798.2    3,544.8    6,343.0            S13.4      650.4    1,163.8         55.9       1.3
............ ....................     ..... ....................................... *. ...................... ...................
Sub-Totat                      20,552.6   20,885.6   41,438.2    3,?7t.1    3,832.2    7,603.3             50.4       8.3
C. ^ual.ty Controt
1.  ational. Feed oC            4,226.3    4,886.4    9,112.7         775.5       896.6    1,672.1         53.6       1.8
2. Nat. 6ioProd.& Phrm. QC  10,7M.7   11,030.4   21,809.1    1,977.8    2,023.9    4,001.7                 50.6       4.4
3. Liv. Prod. Testing Lab        1,935.1    2,319.7    4,254.8         355.1      425.6        780.7       54.5       0.9
4. Vet.lnstrum. Testing Lab   1,076.9    1,256.1    2,333.0            197.6       230.5      428.1        53.8       0.5
^.***X*^X*... :.  .. .s.... * .^****+*o...............   ..............................   ................. *s+*^o
Sub-Totat                       18,017.0   19,492.6   37,509.6    3,306.0    3,576.6    6,882.6            52.0       7.5
0. Quarantine Services
1. Information Center           4,483.8    4,507.4    8,91.2          822.7       827.0    1,649.7        50.1        1.8
2. Provincial Laboratories   12,825.5   20,618.9   33,444.4    2,353.3    3,783.3    6,136.6               61.7       6.7
3. Datfan Plant Quarentine    1,665.1    1,755.5    3,420.6            305.5      322.1        627.6       51.3       0.7
4. Hangguang APO                 1,226.0    1,176.4    2,4a2.4         225.0      215.8       440.8        49.0       0.5
5. Neadquarters Training         1,677.6    4,705.8    6,383.4        307.8       663.4    1,171.2         7T.7       1.3
~~~. ................. ............................................ ..............................   .......................... ........
Sub-Total                      21,878.0   32,Z64.0   54,642.0    4,014.3    6,0l1.6   10,025.9             60.0      10.9
E. Project Nanagement Support    3,513.5    2,524.0    6,037.5            644,7       463.1    1,107.8        41.8       1.2
Total BASEtINE costs              239,954.0  260,137.9  500,091.9   44,028.4   67,731.5   91,759.9            52.0    100.0
Physicat Contingencies          19,815.9   21,935.7   41,751.6    3,636.0    4,024.9    7,660.9            52.5       8.3
Price ContingencSes            38,sn.6   36,033.1   74,60S.7    5,445.5    4,977.6   10,423.1              47.8      11.4
.............................        ..............................   ..............
Total PROJECT COSTS               298,342.5  318,106.7  616,449.2   53,109.9   56,734.0  109,843.9            51.6    t.  7
UUUS3UUU*SfN 88#fU8"                    g      na                        rr-
............................................................................ ................................................................o. .
1/20/93
. /                



- 83 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4.1
CHINA
Agricultural Support Servifes
Sunuary Accownts Cost Sumary
Livestock and  uerantfne  Conponents
000 Yuen                                     ooo uSS                               x Total
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.......    ....,----------............    X   Forefin    ease
Local         Foreign        Total             LocaL        Foreign        Total          Exchanse         Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
.......... ._ ...
A. Buitdings                                       93,478.8   62,319.2   155,798.0                17,152.0   11,434.7    28,586.7                    40.0         31.2
8. Vehicles
1. VehicLes-IDA                                   3,006.9   27,061.7    30,n68.6                  551.7    4,965.4           5,517.1              90.0          6.0
2. Vehictes-Reserve                               2,406.0   21,654.0    24,060.0                   441.5    3,973.2          4,414.7              90.0          4.8
.......... .......................... ................................    ......................................... __.... ___
Sub TotaL                                         5,412.9   48,715.7    54,128.6                  993.2    8,938.6           9,931.8              90.0         10.8
C. Cquipir-rt1
1. Laboratory  Equipsrent                      22,714.7   34,071.9    56,786.6                4,167.8    6,251.7    10,419.5                    60.0         11.4
2. Livestock  Fquipmsnt                         4,866.1        4,866.1        9,732.2            892.9         892.9        1,785.8              50.0          1.9
3. Trminin   & Ext. Equipmrnt                   2,556.8   10,227.0    12,783.8                   469.2    1,876.5          2,345.7              80.0           2.6
4. 0fice  Eqjipnfrnt                            8,057.8    8,057.8    16,115.6                1,478.5        1,478.5       2,957.0               50.0          3.2
5. OaU    Puess ii-l  Equip.snt                    685.2       2,740.9        3,426.1            125.7         502.9          628.6             80.0          0.7
6   0      ci.La'       'ushint:e               4,240.8        1,817.5        6,058.3            778.1         333.5       1,111.6               30.0          1.2
7.   v1       . p  l c r     Eq-ip.                654.7         982.1        1,636.8            120.1         180.2          300.3             60.0          0.3
e   I~.c Ps eilt --Q.    -2jip-it                6,919.5       2,965.5        9,885.0         1,269.6          544.1        1,813.7              30.0          2.0
................ ........................  ........ ..............................    ....................................... .........
o .      .                                        50,695.6   65,728.8   116,424.4                 9,301.9   12,060.3    21,362.2                    56.5        23.3
3,414.4   30,729.6    34,144.0                  626.5    5,638.5          6,265.0               90.0         6.8
21,754.6    9,323.4    31,078.0                3,991.7    1,710.8           5,702.5              30.0          6.2
.*86.0        324.0          810.0             89.2          59.4          148.6             40.0          0.2
................................. ........ ................. ..............................    ....................................... .........
25,655.0   40,377.0    66,032.0                4,707.4    t,408.7    12,116.1                    61.1         13.2
F 1.,  -r- .v      fl :t, rcH.L:.              219.1    4,162.9          4,382.0              40.2        763.9          804.1              95.0          0.9
4C8.5           0.0          408.5             75.0           0.0           75.0              0.0          0.1
627.6    4,162.9          4,790.5             115.2        763.9          879.1              86.9          1.0
................ ..............................................    ..............................    ........................................ 
You,:1 lihv;ST,hCiY  COSTS                        175,869.9  221,303.6   397,173.5               32,269.7   40,606.2    72,875.9                     55.7        79.4
...............................    .............................................. ..................................................... _.........
1I. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. 04M  Vehicles-IDA                                 5,392.3    5,392.3          10,784.6             989.4        989.4        1,978.8              50.0          2.2
B. O&    Vehicles-Reserve                           6,893.4    6,893.4          13,786.8          1,264.8    1,264.8          2,529.6               50.0          2.8
15,989.4    1,776.6    17,766.0                2,933.9         326.0        3,259.9              10.0          3.6
S 8v-1 r   I t -r  I    _^tet             2-646.8    2,646.8           5,293.6               50.0          5.8
o      1 ?60.5               0.0          1.4
(.6
3. 9
. .. ............
,7.7        20.6
. ... .. .............            ...................... .. ........
. t 47,731.5    91,759.8                  52.0        100.0
_,.36.0    4,024.9           7,660.9              52.S          8.3
5,445.6       4,977.6       10,423.2              47.8         11.4
.  ...    5 .      .        .        ...........................    ..................
,    ,1w: c 616,449.2          53,109.9    56,734.0    109,843.9                  51.6        119.7
.................................................................................................................................................... ~



*   :                      *                ~~~~~~~84
ANNX 2
S able 4.2
CNINA
NIOTUtW          *JPMT? seavtcts
Project Cost S.m_ry
oWCTYm                                  oous s                         xTotat
................................ -  ................-.--...-...-...                Foelotn  sets
ocal.       o te.ln       tetal          Local   Forutn         totetal       xchae    Costs
.................................   .............................................. ................................................... .........
A. Fieltd Lfvetock Sevficu
1. Provfncat AMVC's               4,57.5   S4,829.1    @9.486.6             8,230.?   8,225.5  16,454.2              50.0       24.5
2. Prefecture ANVSC4S             31,414.8   32,190.1    63,614.9           5,76.6   5,907.9  11,672.5               50.6       17.4
3. Cowlty ANVSC'%                 77,338.2   85,458.5   16,796.7           14,190.s  is,6m0.s  29,871.0              52.5       44.A
4. Townshfp ANVSCs                22,380.4   21,9"6.0    4,366.4            4,106.5    4,034.1    S,140.6            49.6       12.1
.................. .............................................. .............................   ...............................................
Sb-Tetal                             175,992.9  18,471.?   340,4.6            32,292.3  33,4S.0  66,140.3                51.2       98.4
B. Proj. Ranagemt S04port              3,513.5      2,524.0      6,037.5          644.?      "43.1    1,107.8            41.8        1.6
Tctat SAStLIte COSTS                 179954.4  186        .T  366,502.1       32,937.0  34,311.1  67,248.1               51.0      10o.0
Physcalt Continganies             14,899.0    15,520.6   30,419.7           2,733.8   2,8T.8    5,581.6              51.0        8.3
Price Cgntiuwwicnes               25,429.5    25,04.0 8      3,888.3        4,030.1    3,548.2    7,578.3            "4.8       11.3
Total POJCT COUTS                    222,83.9  227,97.1   450,810.1           3,700.9  40,707.1   88,40.0                50.6      119.6
....................................................................................................................
rJ1srlssmUua.bmttUinUUSS                                               UDUUUU#.SauSaU                       3SUSd3U3



- 85 -
ANNEl 2
Table 4.3
CNINA
Agrfculturat  Suport Services
Sunry Acosmuts Cost Sumary
000 Yuan                         000 USS                     X Totat
. .. ... . . ....      ....   .............................. X        Foreign   Bse
Local     For'ein    Total        Local    Foresin    Total       Exchanse    Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Bluildings                         74,493.6  49,662.4  124.156.0    13,468.S   9,112.4   22,780.9          40.0      33.9
B. Vehcles
1. Vehicles-loA                      2,96.4  26,697.6   29,664.0         544.3   4,898.6    5,442.9         90.0      8.1
2. Vehicles-Resev                    2,367.0  21,303.0   23,670.0        434.3   3,908.8    4,343.1         90.0      6.5
...............................  ...................... ........  ................
Sub TotaL                            5,333.4  48,000.6  53,334.0         978.6   8,807.4    9,786.0         90.0      14.6
C. Equipent
1. Laboratory Equpmt                9,633.5  14,450.2   24,083.?      1,767.6   2,651.4    4,419.0         60.0      6.6
2. Lvestock Equipment               2,95S.6   2,955.6    5,911.2        542.3     542.3    1,084.6         50.0       1.6
3. Training & fit. Eupment          1,879.0   7,515.8    9,394.8        344.8   1,379.0    1,723.8         80.0       2.6
4. Office Equipment                 4,104.4   4,104.4    8,208.8        753.1     753.1    1,506.2         50.0       2.2
5. Data Proceing EquIpment            4S7.4   1,829.6    2,287.0         83.9     335.7       419.6        80.0      0.6
6. Office/Lab. Furnishings          4,170.8   1,787.S    5,958.3        765.3    328.0    1,093.3          30.0       1.6
7. Adaptive Rearch Equip.             654.7    982.1    1,636.8         120.1     180.2       300.3        60.0      0.4
8. Msceltaneu  Equipmnt             6,205.5   2,659.5    8,865.0      1,138.6     488.0    1,626.6         30.0       2.4
Sub-Totat                             30,060.9  36,284.?  66,345.6    5,515.?   6,657.7   12,173.4            54.7      18.1
0. Training
1. over"s                           1,48.3  14,834.7  16,483.0          302.4   2,722.0    3,024.4         90.0      4.5
2. Internal                        19,092.2   8,182.4   27,274.6      3,so3.2   1,501.4    5,004.6         30.0       7.4
3. Research                           486.0     324.0       810.0        89.2      59.4       148.6        40.0      0.2
,..   ;........................................   ..............................   ....................................... .........
Sub-Total                             21,.226.   23,341.1   44,567.6     3,894.8   4,282.8    8,177.6         52.4      12.2
E. Technceat Assistance
1. International Cosutlt.              75.0   1,425.0    1,500.0         13.8     261.S       275.3        95.0      0.4
2. Local Cosultatnts                  206.5       0.0       208.5        38.3       0.0        38.3         0.0      0.1
Sub-Totat                                283.5   1,425.0    1,708.5         52.1     261.5       313.6        83.4       0.5
total INVESTEN t CT                  131,397.9 158,713.8  290,111.7    24,109.7  29,121.8   53,231.5          54.?     79.2
_..........................................   ..............................   ....................................... ......._
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. 0tL4 Vehicles-IDA                   5,278.5   5,278.5   10,557.0        968.S     948.5    1,937.0         50.0       2.9
B. OM  Vehicles-Rsrve                  6,783.7   6,M73.?  13,567.4    1,244.?   1,244.?    2,489.4            50.0      3.7
C. OW  BuilRdings                     12,811.2   1,423.5   14,234.7    2,350.7       261.2    2,611.9         10.0      3.9
D. am EquIpment                        7,990.0   7,990.0   15,980.0    1,466.0   1,46.0    2,932.0            50.0       4.4
e. Locat SalarIas                      5,44.6.        0.0    5,644.6     1,035.7       0.0    1,035.7          0.0       1.5
F. Consmabtes
1. Laboratory        bl es          2,186.6   1,789.1    3,975.7        401.2     328.3      729.5         45.0      1.1-
2. Audio-Val Con ble                1,604.6  1,604.6    3,209.2         294.4     294.4    .58.8    '  50.0          0.9
3. Off ics/Coap. Consumables        3,876.0   2,584.0    6,460.0        711.2     474.1    1,185.3         40.0       1.8
4. AdaptIve RA. Consumbles          1,933.4     828.6    2,762.0        354.8     152.0       506.8        30.0      0.8
Sub-Totat                              9,600.6   6,806.3  16,406.9       1,761.6   1,248.8    3,01m                       . 
................. ................................ ....... ........... .  .. .. ... .. . .. . .. - - -.. -... -........      --       ---    
Totat RECURRENT COSTS                 46,108.6  28,282.0   76,190A t               t I 2     ', 2   C-. 47. 0 36.0
,,,,,,,,,, ........... ......  .... .  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --  ....  .....  .  ....  ...... ............ ......  . ...o... ....  ... ..... 
Total BASELINE CosTs                 179,506.5 186,995.8  366,502.3   32,936.9  34,311.0   67,247.9           51.0    tQo.G
Physical contingencite             14 899 1  i5s520.6   30,419.7      2,733.8   2,847.8    5,581.6         51.0       8.3
P,rice contingencies               28,429.3  25,458.8   53,888.1      4,030.2   3,54.8.3    7,578.5        46.8      11.3
total PROJECTS cosTs                 222,834.9 227,975.2  450,810.1    39,700.9  40,707.1   80,408.0          50.6    119.6
1/20/93



- 86 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4.4
CHINA
Agricultural Support Services Project
Project Cost Sumary by Province
Livestock Component
............................................................................................
'000 Yuan                    '000l                   X Total
.......................    ......               ----   X Foreign  ease
Provnce                Loalt  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    TotaL  Exchan          Costs
................................... ...................................................................._
Base Costs
Jitin                  22,906   22,709   45,615    4,203    4,167    8,370            S0       100
Hobel                   19,244   20,429   39,673    3,531    3,748    7,279           51       100
Henan                  20,423   20,970   41,393    3,747    3,848    7,595            51       100
Hellonf ilang          28,S80   30,598   59,178    5,244    5,614   10,858            52       100
auangxf                 19,828   20,804   40,632    3,638    3,817    7,455           51       100
Slchuan                23,833   25,215   49,048    4,373    4,627    9,000            S1       100
Hunan                  23,144   23,090   46,234    4,247    4,237    8,484            S0       100
SfeJing                 12,442   13,953   26,394    2,283    2,560    4,843           53       100
shanghaI                9,106    9,229   18,335    1,671    1,693    3,364            S0       100
.......................... ......................................... .................... .......................... ........
Totat                 179,506  186,996  366,502   32,937   34,311   67,248            51       100
......................................... 4.    ........................   ................
Costs tInclude Contingencoes
Uiiin                  28,711   27,947   56,6S8    5,088    4,971   10,059            49       120
Nobel                   23,746   24,817   48,563    4,242    4,436    8,678           51       119
Onoen                  25,369   25,613   50,982    4,522    4,57:    9,093            50       120
HofLenj fang           35,142   36,955   72,09?    6,288    6,622   12,910            51       119
duangxl                24,647   25.498   50,145    4,389    4,543    8,932            51       120
Sichuan                30,055   31,128   61,183    5,317    5,532   10,849            51       121
Nunan                  28,450   27,831   56,281    5,096    4,99M   10,091            49       119
BSlJing                 15,618   17,162   32,780    2,T64  . 3,053    5,817           52       120
Shanghai                ;1,097   11,024   22,121    1,995    1,984    3,979           S0       118
Total Costs           222,835  227,973  450,810   39,701   40,707   80,408            51       120
n...........................................................................................
January 19, IM9



-87-
AN=mZ 2
Table 4.5
CHNUA
Algieutturat Support Sefveces
Project Cost Suary
000 Yuan                          0C0 USS                     .Totat
..............................    *------.-.................      X For eign     Eaus
Locat   foreign     total        Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange     Costs
..............................     ............................................ ................................................... ..........
A . Livestock Support ServTce
1. National AhVSC                 6043.2   645.6   12888.8         1108.9  1256.1   2364.9           53.1        9.6
2. SPf Egg Productlon             9401.8    7434.8   1e856.6       17M5.1  1364.2   3089.3           44.2       12.6
3. AnimallForage Genetic RC       2309.4   3060.4    5369.7         423.?   561.5   9U5.3            57.0        4.0
4. Not. Vet. 01eg. Ref. Lab       2798.2   3544.8    6343.1         513.4    650.4   1163.9          55.9        4.7
Sub-totat                            20552.6   20885.6   41438.3       3771.1  3832.2   7603.4            50.4      31.0
8 . duatity Conerot
1. mationl Fed QC                 4226.3   4S.4    9112.8           m.s    896.O   167 n.1           53.6        6.8
2. Nat.81*Prod.& Phorm. QC       10 U8.7   1t030.C   218C9.1       1977.?  2023.9   4001.            540.6      16.3
3. Livest. Proo. Testing Lab      1935.1    2319.7    4254.8        355.1    425.6    78O.?          54.5        3.2
4. Vee. Instru. Testing Lab       1076.9    1256.1    2333.0        197.6   230.5    428.1           53.8        1.7
..............................    ............................................ ........... .............. ..................
Sub-Total                            18017.0   19492.6  37509.6        3305.9  3576.6   6182.5            52.0      28.1
C . Quarant in  Services
1. Infmation Canter               4483.8   4507.4    8991.2         822.7   827.0   1649.8           50.1        6.7
2. Provfnalat Laboratories       12625.   20618.9  33444.5         2353.3  3783.3   6136.6           61.7       25.0
3.  atlian Plant ouarantine       1e65.1    1755.5    3420.6        305.5   322.1    627.6           51.3        2.6
4. Nanaguang APO                  1226.0    1176.4    2402.3        224.9   215.8    440.8           49.0        1.8
S. feadquarters Trainfig          1677.6    4705.8    6383.4        30r.8   863.4   1171.3           73.7        4.8
Sub-Total                            21878.0  32764.0   5464Z.0         4014.3  60i1.?  10026.1           60.0      40.9
o . Proj. Mansesment Support             0.0       0.0       0.0          0.0      0.0      0.0           0.0       0.0
,..;4.          .......            ...........................   ....................
Total 8AELINE cOsTs                  60447.7   73142.2  133589.9       11091.3  13420.6  24511.9           0.0     100.0
Phynieal Contingencies             4916.9    6415.1   11331.9        902.2   1177.1   2079.3          56.6        8.5
Price Contfngencies               10143.1   10574.3   20717.4        1413.4  1429.4   2844.8           50.2      11.6
. _ ........................ . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . . . . . .. .............4.. .. .. .. .. . .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ...
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 75507.7   90131.6  165639.2       13408.9  16027.0  29435.9          54.4     120.1
1/1/1993  13:38
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~**.................;-**........... ..



- 88 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4.6
CHtNA
Agrtculturat Support Services
Sunt ry Accounts Cost Smumry
000 Yrun                                0oo usS                             X Total
_......................             .    .......................-----   X Foreign                Ease
Local   Foreign         Total          LocaL  Forefgn        Total       Exchange         Costs
..............................           ............................................ ............................................. ... ... .........
1. ItVESTMENT COSTS
...................
A. Suildings                              18985.2    12656.8   31642.0            3483.5    2322.3   580S.9                40.0         23.7
E. Vehicles
1. Vehfcles-tA                            40.5       364.1       404.6            7.4       66.8       74.2            90.0          0.3
2. Vehicles-Reserve                       39.0       351.0       390.0            7.2       64.4       71.6            90.0          0.3
....... ........... ... ... ........ ................ ......  .............   ..........................  . ............ 
Sub-Total                                     79.5       715.1       794.6           14.6      131.2      145.8            90.0          0.6
C. Equipment
1. Laboratory Equipment               13081.2    19621.7   32702.9            2400.2    3600.3    6000.5               60.0         24.5
2. Livestock Equipment                  1910.5      1910.5      3821.0          350.6      350.6      701.1             50.0         2.9
3. AgrIcultural Equipnent                  0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0        0.0        0.0              0.0         0.0
4. Trafning  Ext. Equipment              677.8      2711.2      3389.0          124.4      497.5      621.8            80.0          2.5
5. Office Equipment                    3953.4       3953.4      7906.8          n5.4       725.4    1450.8             50.0          5.9
6. Data Processing Equipment             227.8       911.3      1139.1           41.8      167.2      209.0            80.0          0.9
7. Office/Lab. Furnishings                70.0        30.0       100.0           12.8        5.5       18.3            30.0          0.1
8. Adaptive Research Equip.                0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0        0.0        0.0              0.0         0.0
9   Miscellaneous Equipment              714.0       306.0      1020.0          131,0       56.1      187.2            30.0          0.8
. ...............  ...............     . .....  .... ............. ...............  .......................... .............
Sub-Total                                 20634.7    29444.2   50078.9            3786.2    5402.6    9188.8               58.8         37.5
0. Materials                                   0.0         0.0          0.0           0.0        0.0        0.0             0.0          0.0
E. Training
1. Overseas                            1766.1    15894.9    17661.0             324.1   2916.5    3240.6               90.0         13.2
2. Internal                            2662.4       1141.0      3803.5          488.5      209.4      697.9             A0.0         2.8
3. Research                                0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0        0.0             0.0         0.0
-------------- ----------....     ....-. ..............   .......      ..................  .......
Sub-Total                                  4428.5    17035.9    Z1464.5             812.6    3125.9    3938.4              79.4         16.1
F. Technical Assistance
1. InternationaL Consult.                144.1      e73'.9      2&02.0           26.4      502.4      528.8            95.0          2.2
2. Local Consultants                      00.J          0.0      203.!)          36.7        0.0       36.7             0.0          0.1
.... .... .. .. ........ ... ... ...     . ......... I................. ........................... .........._
Sub-Total                                   344.1       2737.9      3082.0           63.1      502.4      565.5            88.8          2.3
................. ... .........             ...... ...................   ............... .....
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                    44472.0    62590.0  107062.0            8160.0  11484.4  19644.4                 58.5        80.1
........ ...... ............    .............................. ....  ........................ ..................   ....................
A.  -
1.                                                                               ^^        70.9.    41.8              50.0          0.2
Su-
{.; ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.....  ..    ............
(~   ZJ    Y 3 (? ...  13358i.9       11091.3  13420.6  24511.9                  0.0       100.0
V916.9      6415.1    11331.9           902.2    1177.1    2079.3               56.6         8.5
10143.1    10574.3    20717.4           1415.4    1429.4    2844.8               50.2        11.6
- ....................  ..................... ....................
75507.7   90131.6  165639.2            13408.9  16027.0  29435.9                 54.4       120.1
-..... -..... .........................................................



_ 89. _
ANEX 2
Sable 5
CHIN
Agricutturel SupM"t SoerVIc
Preoject cost stary
000 Yuan                          000 USS                       X total
........................ ......    .....................-......  X freign        ease
Locat  for*Ign      Total        Local  Foreign    Totat      exchange     Costs
A . Ousrentfne lervmee
1. tnforation Canter              4483.8    4Sa7.4    81.2          822.v    82u.0   1649.8          50.1       16.5
2. Proifnialt Laboratoria        12823.S  20616.9  33444.5         2353.3  3783.3  6136.6            61.7       61.2
3. Oatfan Plent Curantim          1465.1   t755.5    342.6          305.5   322.1   627.6            51.3        6.3
4. Nangsueng APO                  1226.0    1176.4    2402.3        224.9    215.8   440.8           49.0        4.4
5. Hedquarters Traening           1677.6   4705.8    6343.4         30T.6   863.4  1171.3            73.7       11.7
Sub-Totat                            21878.0  32764.0  54642.0         4014.3  6011.? 1t026.1            60.0      100.0
..............................    ...........................   ....................
Total BASELINE COSTS                 21878.0  32?W.0   54642.0         4014.3  6011.?  10026.1           60.0      100.0
Physicat Contingemce               1?01.6   2893.9    4595.5         312.2   531.0   643.2            63.0        8.4
Price Contlngenci.a                3852.9   5085.6    8938.5         528.1   682.4  1210.4             56.4      12.1
,................................             ,................ .......... :.........:
Total PROECTS COSTS                  27432.6  40743.4   68176.0        4854.6      .1   1079.7            59.8     120.5
,...........................................        ................ .................................      ...........
1/13/193 13:51
.   .   ..  ...~ ~    ~        .                                 *



- 90 -
A=X 2
Table 5.1
Agricuttural Support Services
Surary Accounts Cost Sumcry
000 Yuan                          000 US$                      X Total
.............................    ...........................  X foreign          Bace
Local   foreign     Total       Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange      Costs
..............................    ............................................ ............... ..................,................. ......... 
t. INVESTMENT COSTS
...................
A.  uiltdings                       3814.8    2543.2    6338.0        700.0   4U6.6   1166.6           40.0       11.6
B. Vehfiles                            0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0
C. Equipment
t. Laboratory Equipment          6106.4   10209.6   17016.0       1248.9   1873.3   3122.2          60.0      31.1
2. LIvestock Equipment              0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0
3. Agelcultural Equipment           0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0
4. Training U xt. Equipment       223.2     892.8    1116.0         41.0    163.8    204.8          80.0       2.0
S. Oftiee Equipment              3162.6    3162.6   6325.2         580.3   580.3   1160.6           30.0      11.6
6. Data Process0n Equipent          0.        0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0
7. OtticetLeb. Furnishings          0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0           0.0       0.0
8. Adaptive Research Equip.         0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0
9. Misceltgneous Equipment          0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0
Sub-Totat                          10192.2   14265.0   24457.2       1870.1   2617.4  4487.6           58.3      44.8
0. Materials                           0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0        0.0
E. Training
1. overseas                      1188.9   10700.5   11889.4        218.2   1963.4   2181.5          90.0      21.8
2. Internal                      1120.0     480.0    1600.0        205.5     88.1    293.6          30.0       2.9
3. Research                         0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0           0.0       0.0
............... ...._.__. _._....................    ._. ;................ ..............   .............................. 
Sub-Total                           2308.9   11180.5   13489.4        423.7  2051.5  2475.1            82.9      24.?
F. Technicat Assistance
1. International Cnsault.          50.0     950.0    1000.0          9.2    174.3    183.5          95.0       1.8
2. Local Conaultants              200.0       0.0      200.0        36.7      0.0     36.7           0.0       0.4
........ ............. _._._........  ........ ................ ...   ........................___ .... ______
SubrTotet                            250.0     950 .0    1200.0        45.9    174.3    220.2          79 2..2    22
Totat tnESTMENT COSTS              16565.9   28938.7  45504.6        3039.6  s309.8  8349.5            43.6      83.3
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OSM Vehicles                        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0      0.0          0.0        0.0
B  0S  Bu ldidngs                   686.7       76.3     763.0       126.0      14.0    140.0         10.0        1.4
C. 01 Equipment                     3272.5   327n.s   6545.1          600.5   600.5   1200.9           50.0       12.0
0. Local Salaries                    765.3        0.0     765.3       140.4       0.0    140.4          0.0        1.4
e. SPF Egg Production                  0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0
F. Cons4mbles
1. Laboratory Consejibles           0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0           0.0       0.0
2. Audio-Visual Cansumabtes       2S4.2     254.2      308.4        4.6      46.6    93.3           50.0       0.9
3. Office/Cwap. Consumibtes       333.4     222.2    55S.6          61.2     40.8    101.#          40.0       1.0
4. Asptive Res. Conswuables         0:0        0.0       0.0         0.0      0:0       0.0          0.0       00.
.*ub-TrOt4t 76 6.5    1064.0                                          107.8              1 9.2         44.8        1.9
G. Demor6tration Triats                0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0        0.0
Totat RtCURRENT COSTS               5312.1    3825.3   9137.4         974.7   701.9  1676.6            41.9       16.7
~~~~~~~~~~~~. .............................    ........................................... _ .. ..__. ......................... ...... ..... _. _..._
Totat LASELINE COSTS               21878.0  32764.0  54642.0         4014.3  6011.T  10026.1            0.0      140.0
Physicat Contingencies           1701.6    2893.9    4595.5        312.2   531.0   843.2            63.0       8.4
Priee Contingencies              3852.9    5085.6    8938.5        528.1    682.4   1210.4          56.4      12.1
..................... .. ..... ... ....__.......... .... ...... ,    .......................... .........   ................ _...... ....... 
Totat PROJECTS COSTS               27432.6   40743.4   68176.0       4854.6  7225.1  12079.7           59.8      120.5
....       13_51..............................................._,       .._
/1tt11993  13:51



-91-
Table 6
CH.
ACRICTLTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements                 Disbursement
IDA                                                        Profile a/
Fiscal Year/     Semester   Cumulative   Cumulative
Semester         ---.  US$ million ----       0          Yr/Semester  %
Year 1
1st        0
2nd        3
1994                                                     Year 2
1st              8.0.        8.0            7            1st        10
2nd              7.0        15.0           13.           2nd       18
1995                                                     Year 3
Ist             10.0        25.0           22            1st       30
2nd             10.0         35.0          30            2nd       42
1996                                                     Year 4
lst             10.0        45.0           39            1st        54
2nd             12.0         57.0          50            2nd        66
1907                                                     Year S
1st             13.0         70.0.         61            1st        74
2nd             12.0         82.0          71            2nd        78
1998                                                     Year 6
1st              8.0         90.0          78            *lst       86
2nd              8.0         98.0          85            2nd        90
1999                                                     Year 7
6.0       104.0          90             1st       94
2nd              6.0        110.0          96            2nd        98
2000                                                     Year 8
1st              2.0        112.0          97            1st       100
2nd              2.0        114.0          99            2nd        -
2001
1st              1.0        115.0         100              -        -
a/  Disbursement profile for China - all sectors
Completion date:   December 31, 1999
Closing date:   .  December 31, 2000



-92 -                         ANNE"
Page 1 of 5
CHINA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPpRT SERVICES PROJECT
Summary of Training and Education Activities
1.   Implementation of the ASSP will req-uire sustained high quality
management effort in order to bring about the administrative and technical
changes proposed and to ensure that all parts of its geographically widespread
project function smoothly. The extent of the management challenge can be more
easily understood by observing the breadth of geographical and institutional
coverage of the project. In addition to strengthening MOA's management and
technical capacity to provide better support for its numerous services and
reorganizing the DOA and DAH, the project's Crop Services component covers 10
provinces, 13 prefectures, 50 counties and 624 townships. The Livestock
Services component covers 9 provinces, 18 prefectures, 56 counties and 308
townships while the Animal and Plant Quarantine Services component covers a
national center and 18 stations. The Seeds sub component would strengthen 10
provincial, 14 prefectural/municipal and 41 county seed companies. The
project would also provide assistance to six specialized centers associated
with the livestock subsector and a numbet of institutions dealing with
agricultural research.
2.   Achievement of project objectives would depend heavily on the skills of
staff in the institutions responsible for project implementation. The ASSP
supports a comprehensive program of human resource development in order to
build the skills base required and to ensure sustainability of sector
institutions reorganized and strengthened.
3.  This annex provides a summary of human resource activity
supported by the project and is intended to assist those responsible for
project supervision and provide guidance to staff who would implement the
training programs in each major component.
4.    Training and technical assistance program summaries have been prepared,
and placed in the project file, which indicate the range and volume of
education and training to be supported by the project. Included are summaries
for activities which fall into the category of management (MOA strengthening,
DOA and DAH reorganization, project management and management of training and
information services); crop services; livestock and veterinary services
including six specialized centers; seeds; and quarantine services.  The amount
and phasing of technical assistance for training is also presented.
5.  The summaries, divided into sections (labelled A-O), were prepared using
the most recent available data but will need to be updated as project details
are refined and a clearer picture of budget support emerges. The summaries
should be used as a training program planning aid by the PNO and PPMOs.
However, for implementation and management of training, the summary tables
must be supplemented by the detailed cost tables (Annex 2) prepared for each
component by level and by year.
6. Annex 3, in addition to text and component summary cost tables, also
contains, as an attachment ( Attachment 1 ), a description of the in-service



- 93 -                       At  3
Page 2 of 5
education and training plan for ATEC staff. Training managers should use this
guide in planning and implementing training programs in agrotechnology.
Management of Training
7.  The volume of training and its importance to the achievement of project
objectives is sulch that management of the program becomes critical. Issues
include assessment of skill gaps, identification of qualified training
institutions, selection of candidates for training, and planning,
implementing, ane evaluation of the training program.
8.   The project would provide a program of Training Management at two
levels:
(i)  Approximately five persons from the Training Working Group would
attend a 10-12 week overseas course in Training Management which
should commence as soon as possible after project negotiations.
The trainees, on their return, would be expected to assist with the
supervision of the ASSP training component and provide support for
the training coordinators (TCs) at provincial, prefecture and
county levels.
(ii) About 240 training coordinators appointed to take responsibility
for training activities in various project components would also
participate in a Training Management course offered at a number of
locations in China. The Economic Development Institute (EDI) of
the World Bank would assist with the design of an in-country
Training Management course and offer it to approximatelyv 60
national, provincial, prefecture and specialized center TCs in two
batches at selected Chinese academic or management institutions.
The remaining 180 would be trained in early 1994 when their
selection and posting has been confirmed. Training would be
implemented by the institutions which offered the EDI designed
course.
Role of the Training Coordinator.
9.   The TC's job is to ensure that training activities are designed and
implemented by competent people for trainees whose needs have been accurately
identified. Although this seems relatively simple to achieve, considerable
effort is required if the training programs are to have the desired impact.
10. The SAR identifies training categories and indicates numbers of people
to be trained or person months of training allocated and amounts of funding
available but, in most cases, it does not identify individuals to be trained
nor does it assess their skill deficiencies for specific tasks. In order to
provide meaningful training all staff categories should be reassessed to
reflect actual training needs and training programs designed accordingly.
11. In contracting institutions to supply training programs, the TC must go
to negotiations with full information about the trainees including their
educational and work experience profiles, major skill gaps, preferred training
dates and the numbers of candidates to participate. The TC should be able to



-94 -                       AMX^  3
Page 3 of 5
toll the training institution what the desired outcomes of the training
program are expected to be and agree on an evaluation methodology.
12. The TC should keep comprehensive and accurate records of the training
completed and hold regular meetings with senior staff to report on progress of
the program and to make managers aware of the availability of training
vacancies and obtain manager's feedback on the effect of training programs on
staff performance.
Getting Started
13.  The first thing that the TC must do is to establish a training support
group. The TC cannot be expected to manage all aspects of the training
program alone. A training or human resources support group should be created
at all project levels to advise, discuss and assist the TC in all aspects of
managing the training program. It should be clear to project management that
the TC is a coordinator and not a training officer. The TC is a manager of
the training program and his/her job is to see that the best possible training
is provided to staff who need it in an effective and timely manner.
14.    Training managers should impress upon project and unit managers that
the categories of training, the number of person months of training and the
number of individuals to be trained as presented in the SAR are flexible and
can be amended if assessed training needs prove to be different. All training
should be based on assessed need and TCs would have to confirm those needs for
all categories of staff before implementing training projects although,
because of the large number of staff who may require training, skill gap
analysis can be carried out on a sample basis.
15. In implementing training programs, TCs should pay special attentior, to
the following in order to avoid delays:
(a) Speedy appointment of staff to specific positions in project units;
(b) Updating job descriptions to include duties and responsibilities
associated with project objectives.
(c) Skill gap analyses which have to be undertaken and analyzed;
(d) Course design and materials preparation;
(e) Construction of training facilities and procurement of training
equipment;
(f)  Obtainintg managers' agreements to release staff to participate in
training activities;
(g) Identification and assessment of training resource institutions;
(h) Finalizing contracts for the implementation of training programs;
(i) Preparation, testing and finalizing evaluation instruments;
(j) Obtaining funding on time; and



- 95-                         AR  I
Page 4 of 5
(k) Planning and administering trainee logistics (travel,
doc.mentation, money).
16. Planning Training Activities. One of the most time consuming but
necessary part of the TCs job is planning for training. Participants and
observers attend training programs but rarely appreciate the amount of work
which has been undertaken to ensure that the implementation takes place
without problems. Planning for training programs must begin many months
befcre the date of implementation. A good example is planning for overseas
training. Contact with host agencies or institutions overseas must be made up
to one year in advance and a choice of dates for the study tour or course
offered; agreement must be reached on the nature of trainee needs and the
ability and willingness of the host institution to provide the required -
training and/or experience; trainees must get language training, if required;
clearances must be obtained from various authorities, passports and other
travel documents applied for; money released; and transport reserved.
Detailed descriptions of the objective of the study tour or course must be
approved and given to the selected trainee and his/her manager; copies of this
document should also be sent to the host abroad; details of travel plans
including dates and times of departure, arrival and return must be drawn up
and provided to trainees, their managers and to the host agency or
institution.
17. In-country or domestic training, especially if contracted out to an
educational or research institution, also requires considerable preparation,
discussion and communications. The key is to begin preparations soon enough
to enable adjusaients to be made before the training activity begins. Once
the training program is completed, evaluation reports should be shared with
the trainee, trainers and trainees' managers. If the evaluation shows
wveakness in course design or delivery, changes must be made if there is to be
a repeat of the program.
Record Keening
18. TCs at each level should create a recora system which would contain:
(a) The entire training program at their level for the 6 years of
project implementation.
(b) A list of all managers in all parts of the
organization--agrotechnology, livestock, quarantine services,
seeds and the specialist centers.
(c) A work program showing when various interventions are necessary.
For example: When should the TC visit specific managers to discuss
the training needs of their staff; when should a training needs
(skills gap) assessment be carried out; when should the TC obtain a
list of all staff and their profiles 'name, age, education and
training history, assignment, years oI experience); what is the
most appropriate time in the work year to release staff for
training. Which are the potential training resource institutions
in the area? Who in the various work units could be reliable as a
trainer; what budgetary resources are available for trainng?



-96 -
page 5 of 5
The Animal Husbandrv and Veterinary Services Trainini PFraofrai.
19. Design of this project component was undertaken late in the project
preparation process and it was not possible to be as precise about training
needs, trainee numbers and training activity duration as in the case of other
components.
20. The management of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services (AHVS)
training program would involve a considerable amount of discussion with
managers of units in the provinces, municipalities, counties and in the
specialized centers in order to confirm training requirements, identify
specific skill and knowledge gaps and design appropriate training activities.
This means that training activities and allocated person months shown in the
detailed tables in this and other annexes must be considered indicative rather
than final.
21. It can be observed in the training summary tables that a number of
training activities, topics and durations are listed as unspecified or open
and the number of trainees has not been finalized. This would not present a
problem as long as the Training Coordinator works with unit managers to
undertake the process of needs identification.
22. Technical Assistance for Training. The project provides for
international and local technical assistance specifically to support training
activities (section 0 of training program summaries). However, there is a
training aspect to virtually all technical assistance included in the
project and training coordinators should avail themselves of the presence of
technical assistance personnel to obtain inputs for the design and
implementation of training programs.



_ 97 _
Page 1 of 6
AgIICThA1 SM=T SERVICES gm
In-Service Education and Training Plan f&Qorth ATEQ_Staff
1.    The following is a tentative list of in-service education and training
options that will be organized under the ASSP to up-grade the skills and
competencies of different categories of ATEC staff to undertake their newly
assigned duties and responsibilities in the reorganized system. In-service
education programs at the post-graduate, university, 3 year diploma
(agricultural college), and technical secondary [Central Agricultural
Broadcasting and Television School (GABTS)] levels will be designed to up-
grade the o-verall skills and knowledge of the different categories of
extension staff at all levels in the ATEC system. In-service training or
short courses will be organized for the different categories of staff and will
focus on their srecific job responsibilities. The following is a brief
description of these in-service education and training options:
In-Serv_ce Education Programs
2.    M.Sc. DegXee:  Post-graduate education at the M.Sc. degree level will be
provided for selected prefecture and county SHSs in plant protection, soils
and fertilizers, and crop production/horticulture. The program will provide
sufficient resources for three or more staff members from each MATEC and CATEC
to pursue an M.Sc. degree. In some counties, there may be insufficient
qualified staff to undertake post-graduate studies, particularly in the areas
of plant protection and soil and plant nutrition.
3.    The Master's degree fellowship program would include 3 years of
training, involving 12-18 months of course work and 12-18 months of thesis
research. These fellowships should be awarded in the first 2 years of the
project, so that all students would complete their training by the end of the
project. Thesis research for the M.Sc. degree programs could be carried out
either at the Institutes of Plant Protection, Soils and Fertilizers, or Crop
Breeding and Cultivation within the National or Provincial Academies of
Agricultural Sciences (CAAS or PAAS), or at the specific HATEC or CATEC where
the student is assigned. Students would be supervised jointly by a faculty
menber from the University and CAAS or PAAS.
4.    The preferred areas of study for these fellowships wo-ld be in soil
fertility, piant nutrition, all aspects of integrated pest management,
cultural practices, crop variety adaptation (not plant breeding) and cropping
system studies associated with rice, wheat, corn, rapeseed, peanuts, soybean,
cotton and sugarcane. Emphasis in these studies should be on adaptive on-farm
research techniques and technology development. The estimated cost of this
post-graduate degree program would be approximately Y9,000 annually or a total
cost of Y24,000 per student, including travel, room and board, tuition, fees,
and thesis research expenses.



- 98 -
Attachmeal
Page 2 of 6
5.    Post-graduate: This two year post-graduate program would be organized at
Beijing Agricultural University, at the Masters degree level, for the
technical program leaders for each technical sub-division. Also, some
additional, unassigned post-graduate scholarships would be included in the
projeci. budget for other promising technical specialists who could profit from
this type of in-service education; these unassigned funds would become
available in year three or four of the project. The program leaders selected
for this post-graduate training would be the younger, mid-career technical
staff who have the potential to become the heads of these technical units in
the future.
6.    This two year post-graduate program will include about 75% course work
in the individual's specific field of expertise, with the other 25% of the
program being directed to courses in extension methods, training, and
communications. The goal of this program would be that these individuals
become knowledgeable about the process of technology transfer, and skilled in
extension training and communications methods. Estimated cost: Y
15,000/person for the two year course.
7.    Diglomi: This one year post-graduate course would be organized by BAU
for the entire professional staff in the NATEC Program Support Unit, as well
as other extension trainers  at the PATEC, MATEC, and CATEC levels.  These
professional staff members would take two semesters of in-depth course work in
all major subject matter areas of extension, human resource development, and
technology transfer, including such courses as extension methods, training,
communications and management, as well as courses in agricultural development
and rural sociology, and an introductory computer course.
8.    The last three months of this post-graduate diploma course would be
directed independent study related specifically to their particular job
assignments. This independent study might involve field research, additional
course work, specialized training, or directed reading and study in the
library. The final product of this diploma course would be an 'n-depth paper
on their particular area of expertise within this program support area.
Estimated cost: Y 8,000./person.
9.    B.Sc. Degree: In the MATEC and CATEC proposals, resources have been
allocated to upgrade the educational level of selected extension personnel.
At the MATEC and CATEC, primary emphasis has been given to M.Sc. and post-
graduate diplomas, as described above. In addition, at these two system
levels, additional resources have been allocated to up-grade nearly all
younger staff members to the B.Sc. degree level. In particular, staff
members who already hold diplomas from 3 year agricultural colleges can
complete their B.Sc. degrees in approximately two years. These human resource
investments are designed to increase the overall capacity of the ATEC system
to support the field extension staff at the township and village levels.
10.   Agricultural College/CABTS:   At the TATES and village levels, resources
have been provided for selected extension staff members to further up-grade
their educational qualifications. At the TATES level, a limited number of
secondary school graduates would be sent for diploma level training at the 3



- 99 -
Page 3 of 6
year agricultural colleges. Also, resources have been provided at the village
level for farmer technicians to complete their technical secondary diploma In
agricultural extension from the CABTS. The primary role that CABTS plays in
providing in-service education for farmer technicians and other agricultural
support personnel at the village and township level is the primary
justification for the modest equipment support being provided to the CABTS
under the NATEC budget.
JZ-Service Training
11.   IRRLLCIMYI :  Senior level SMSs at the national and provincial level
would undertake 4 months of intensive training in adaptive research
methodology, farming systems research, and the use of computers for the
statistical and economic analyses of on-farm research at the International
Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in the Philippines or the International Maize
antd Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) in Mexico. It would be preferred that
all staff undertaking this training have sufficient English language
capability. It is anticipated, however, that Chinese language interpreters
would be needed to ensure that participants gain the maximum advantage from
the training. Therefore, this short-term training program includes ths cost of
one interpreter accomp&aying each group to IRRI and CIMMYT.
12.   The objective of this training activity at IRRI and/or CIMMYT, plus the
follow-up training activities in each province, will be to improve the on-farm
adaptive research methods and analytical techniques used by SMS at the MATEC
and CATEC levels. At the provincial or MATEC level, it is expected that the
Sl4Ss who have adaptive research responsibilities will concentrate on Farming
Systems Research/Extension (FSR/E) activities.  At the CA!., C level, senior
SMSs for the primary commodities will employ Crop "anagement Research (CMR)
methods and analytical techniques. Therefore, within both the NATEC and each
participating PATEC, the objective will be to develop a training and
backstopping capacity in FSR/E and CMR methodologies. Consequently, the four
staff members in the CMR/FSR division of the NATEC and each PATEC will
undertake a 4 month intensive "train the trainer* snort course at either IRRI
or CIMMYT. Estimated cost: Y52,00O./person.
13.   FSRZCMR Training: Following the training of trainers at IRRI and CIMMYT,
in-country training courses would be held for MATEC and CATEC level SMSs in
each province of the project. These courses would provide training on
adaptive research methodologies, farming systems research and use of computers
for statistical and economic analyses of on-farm research results. The
program would begin with one month of training on the principles and
methodologies of farming systems research, followed by an additional three
months of incremental training, over a full cropping cycle. This in-country
training program would cover planning, implementation and analysis of an
on-farm research program.
14. The four provincial staff, who have undertaken the short-term overseas
training program, would be the lead trainers (two for each course), supported
by FSR/CMR adaptive research specialists from both IRRI and CIMMYT. These



- 100 -
Attachment
Page 4 of 6
international training specialists will help arrange the course objectives and
curriculum, course materials, and then provide the technical expertise and
support for the on-farm research training program. Subject matter
specialists, who are responsible for the on-farm adaptive research program at
each HATEC and CATEC would attend these training courses. All training
materials for these courses would be translated into the Chinese language and
then reproduced in sufficient quantity, prior to course commencement.
Estimated cost: Y 3,000/person, plus IRRI/CIMMYT support costs (described
below).
15. The estimated support cost of institutionalizing this in-country
training capacity for FSR/CMR in each PATEC would be about Y900,000, including
up to 36 pm of technical assistance from IRRI and CIMHYT over a period of two
years at the subsidized rate of Y25,000 per month (travel costs, plus direct
training costs based on indicative costs from IRRI). This cost would include
technical trainiLzg support for four separate IRRI and CIMMYT training courses
being held each year, with two provinces working together on each course.
16.   Computer:  Three-week short courses would be organized at each PATEC to
train key SHSs and other program support personnel, from the PATEC and each
MATE' and CATEC, in the use of computers for database management, statistical
analyses, and word processing. Comparable courses would be organized at the
national level for NATEC and NATSC personnel.  Each course would be limited to
15 participants to provide maximum opportunity for "hands on" training and
experience. The cost of these short courses is estimated to be approximately Y
500/participant for NATEC, NATSC, and PATEC personnel, and about
Y1,500/participant for MATEC and CATEC personnel due to travel and living
costs.
17. Laboratory: Laboratory training would be required for the technical
laboratory staff at each MATEC and CATEC. This course would provide specific
training about the proper use of the new equipment being provided by the
project and on modern methods of soil and plant analysis. The plan is to
contract with the PAAS or the agricultural university in each province to
offer two, 4-week short courses for these MATEC and CATEC laboratory
technicians. The cost for travel, room and board, and training costs is
estimated at Y ,500/trainee.
18. Tgehnical/Admunistratnon: This six month short course will be designed
specifically for the technical unit heads within the NATEC, who currently hold
the senior level administrative positions in the four technical stations. In
addition, some senior level technical/managerial staff in some of the PATECs
may select this training option as appropriate for their needs. This
professional development activity could be equated with an administrative
sabbatical leave and it would cover three major aieas. First, it would
include formal training in extension methods, communications and the process
of technology transfer. The second dimension of the course would cover
specific skill training in extension administration and management. Finally,
the third phase would concentrate on directed independent study in the unit
head's particular technical field.



- 101 -
Page 5 of 6
19.   It is expected that this short course would be organized by Beijing
Agricultural University (BAU), with training in extension methods and
management being organized by the Department of Agricultural Extension. The.
independent study would be directed by a senior professor at MAU, possibly a
faculty member in an academic department or the Center for Integrated
Agricultural Development (CMAD). However, it is expected that much of the
independent study time would be spent at the Chinese Academy of Agricultural
Sciences (CAAS) concentrating on the new or emerging technologies in each unit
head's particular field of expertise. Estimated cost: Y 5,000./person.
20.   Technical/Exton.: This three month short course would be aimed at
the technical specialists in each NATEC agrotechnical unit; also, some PATEC
SMSs might be selected for this type of training course. This short course
would focus on the specific skills .d knowledge that these specialists would
need to know or be able to do to function effectively in their new
agrotechnical subject matter specialist (SMS) positions. The course would
integrate technical training, with "hands on" skill development in extension
communications and methodology.
21.   After an initial orientation session at BAU, during which the goals and
objectives of the short course would be covered, each technical specialist
would spend the next month at CAAS and related research institutions and
universities, working with appropriate scientists in their particular area of
expertise (i.e. maize production, sericulture, IPM). The objective of this
assignment would be to learn as much as possible about new, emerging
technologies in their particular commodity/subject matter area. In addition,
a secondary outcome would be to establish a direct working relationship with
these scientists; a relationship that these technical specialists would
continue to build on through their jobs in the months and years Eollowlng this
training experience.
23.   Following this month of independent study, the technical specialists
would return to BAU with detailed information on at least 2-3 new
technologies, practices, or other relevant skills and knowledge that would be
of direct value and interest to extension field personnel. Then these
specialists would work with the extension/communication staff at BAU to
transform this information into different extension outputs. In addition to
an introductory computer course, they would take classes on technical writing,
where they would be expected to devalop an extension newsletter where they
would describe each of the new technologies o- practices.
24.   Time permitting, these SMSs might begin developing a training manual
that could be used by CATEC subject matter specialists in trainirA the TATES
field staff on a new technology or practice, as well as response to farmers
needs. Also, they would take &a introductory course on producing educatlonal
videos. In this exercise, they would prepare the script and outline the video
material necessary to use this medium in training field extenslon personnel
about a specific skill or new technology. Also, they would take a course on
extension methods traLinng, including the proper use of different A-V
equipment and teaching aids. Estimated cost: Y 3500/person



- 102 -
Page 6 of 6
25.   Video:  It is expected that the indivituals employed fbr the video
production units would already have basic training and skills in the use of
video equipment. The overriding goal of installing a video production
capacity in the NATEC and each of the PATECs is to produce educational videos
that can be used in the in-service training of the extension field staff.
Therefore, the video training short course would concentrate on the particular
skills and methods of producing educational videos for this unique use of
distance education/training. It is expected that the NATEC and PATEC video
production teams would be trained at the same time. This first course would
cover the basic approach and methods of preparing educational videos, and
would be carried out through three, two week intensive short courses located
at central locations around the country (5 teams/training site).
26.   After one year, a one week intensive workshop would be held for the
presentation and poer review of each production team's best tapes. In
addition, advanced video production methods and techniques would be covered
during the second course. Estimated cost: Y2,500./person for the two courses,
plus TA costs for educational video trainers.
27.   Oversgas: An overseas study tour of national extension systems in
several countries (i.e. Japan, the Philippines, and Thailand) would be
organized for the 9 PATEC directors and the NATEC director, plus two deputy
directors. The purpose of the study tour would be to study how agricultural
extension is organized in other countries, to develop a better understanding
about organizing and conducting on-fsrm FSR and to forge a close working
relationship between the NATEC and PATEC directorate staff. Estimated cost: Y
35,000./person.
28.   Also, MATEC and CATEC directors will have the opportunity to observe how
FSR oriented adaptive research is organized and executed at the local level.
Each director will participate in a two week workshop and study tour in
Thailand to observe how FSR oriented adaptive research programs can be
organized by SMSs and the messages integrated into the on-going extension
demonstration program.
29.   Farmer Associations-Tour:  A pilot project will be conducted as part of
ASSP to better understand how to enhance and utilize village level farmer
study groups and township level farmer associations (FAs) in the dissemination
of improved agricultural technology. Farmer associations are commonly used In
many other Asian countries for this purpose,. therefore, a study tour will be
organized to observe the use of these farmer organizations in several other
countries. The study tour will include the FA specialists from the NATEC and
each participating PATEC, and the group would cover two or three countries in
approximately two weeks. Also, a comparable FA study tour is proposed for
livestock extension. Following this study tour, the NATEC will conduct a week
long seminar/workshop to synthesize what had seen learned about FAs during the
study tour and then to use applicable concepts in planning the pilot project
to explore different approaches to organizing FAs. Estimated cost: Y
20,000/person.



AGRICULTURA  SUPPORT SRtVICES PtOJEC
Management Seices and Project Management
TOM      TOM              r.bim  Cod (S$ USO M
Training &ThlmIaa Arjhtauc                 19--I__ -Ij                                 itnim conten min taeonozm
_rron 4Trft  1AslAc       |_ts_t                          am_     m                   4"    t
- -                                                  - gE   
~~~-                                    - . -- --
A. lkuind TA                                        - _ _                                                pd _
L  sd TAi lllbof dbe af_w AIonO  b_d
ApkmflW lsmuh By*= SpodUs              21        9       9                                    Ssvwm Spibus ad 9lbe  urmasla
kbeoeSl s4.                                      3S.A     3     _ A
A. bftl_udTA                            _                                                          D_b -  ,vm .mf OMfo
-                  -     -            -      -     -       A      Ia
A. .Iemadamal  a. Davdsysaal,ahlgDaPua  ad
Sailor AUlsWsal Infosw u lss SS    SS SSSdhI13 A3*  55.0    27Glee
SulobrMshor             IIUI    ii.                    55D   551B  55    55.   55.   55   a. AettbsPO                      dike
Pad   bla samps o        u  
______________sped"___                     0     _3_                                               *dbpujdi*jgys
. =                 =- 



AllX 3
-104 -Table 1
_                 _ X~~~~~m  Page 2 of 2
I ,.            ii. 1 
.1 1       if "lii  i     Ri.
. g    b            '  fi  Sp
rk~~~~~~~ d



AGomcicAL EiTENON TECHNAL AssWrANCz
totSl    totel   _   ,                       rop d cntent and loctla
pperon   ctot   1I92    1S    1994   195 199    1m7
A.           .                                                                                         .. _ s_...._ 
1. 8tml.. Om Spcilst (M)                8       144   55        E      19     IS              - -PAT=   Prepae   r. PI   and Opar. Nels
2. l1eer  oW Spoesilit (IS)              4       74   37       *7       -       -     -       -    AWKCIRt C   Pfepanewr. Pun e  Oper. K_n1l
s. Ae. trainin  Spediolite (ATS)         s       56   3?       19                                  NO-INdbeo, ft  s   Condct a1l gap -al e- aId prepa
4* 13  Ttainin  SpSe.
(travl ceo  aly)                    36       1"4     -       .      82             .       -   PMIt train   Caere (l  stev)
knstetal                                  4.      l   ft       La      La      inL
s. WOL tehil            en
I. Prolet luslnatatic. 
P. Prormat Spoilet                      2         2    2        -       -      -      -       -      II          2 Procrt Spe. to Abet  in ha,ing  Ip
S5upast Spc. for VidoolAY/PriattrAjd4i, Lpim             for
au Lob. gvdvpsat
2. Vid"e _ip/.ntlln.tallstia
Speilit                            20       20    -       10      10       -     .       -    U*TIIP* t   Deeo  Video Prop. Studio   ad  Supowios
Cat. in Pre. for Video and Radio S"uissn
S. 1tanmo Oam Speilist                  18        is    3       9       2       2     2       -   URCIPAtKs    Ibtrk  itlh  Toneto   1Sed  a       e bap  POW&
R"epcate oirg. xodels
4. Apia. Camimai. Spe. a)                S       so    .        -      3       19     -       -    AIPtU   Conduct Video treinin  vorkehopa
II. rustitatiomal DevelcM$ft
1. feaerc  Ou Sp"ialit                d16   16                  9       2      2      -       -      I ATWICe      oat with  lorag   mr   and belp  PAtM
leplict Orgt. models
2. agri. Trainin  Specilist            21        21    3        9       S      1      5       -   U    II ECst   Vogt with   oreri    TS8  aez  bhlp  PYTWa
Roplicat Trning P"l
3. Agric. Ctb i. Sp                     5         5             ,       3      2              -   PMWIPATCa  Work vith Foreto  CS ia Traing  A           cTIP        0     f
S    1btaul                             82             Li             LO 2        9
_                                                 _    _  _ _                                      _ _            FeW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l



total    Totl                  Phel  b       t                      Proed contet ai locatio
Itemalofbjeets                            pore.   cost         296    1997
1. Locl TrSlubn  an Stldy Tar.
1. n.5.. Dape  (3 yens)              $,2,    1,004.0  122      243      243   24t   122              isiftng Aric. Cildv. (&UM)  fha.ti  - adeptie reerch
mtbode tedholy
2. poetrand. Dipim  (2 Yes)          7,0O8     80o.7  96       19i      Its    193   19   6          UJfrow. Agric. Univ.   7   in tehb.  ubject are tnp 2S2
an estesiem iaetodolog
3. Dipleu  In nteustos (I year)      2,77 E39.1  41             81       *1    S0    40              m*1  CaVprebeusiv.  Zfo. an W.  sth4odel3gt.. 7*., Agric.
C-.
4. B.Sc.  egree (3 ye")              4,672     510.1  71       143      143   143    70             ftc. Agric. Uedy.t Tech. Subject cstter
S. tecbldeit. traS g t6 Cs itha)    2S2         38.5  10      28.5               _                  3*DGASe   Spec. Study in toeh. Specialty and Ext. Vgt.
6. Tc.latem. trann  (S soag)           15s      98.2  26        26        -      -      -           3AUICSo   Sp. Study In tech. Flld and Ext. Veth0d
Training
7. Adaptie leasrch (4 montl)         2,240     305.3    -       98       t      97      *                    Spec. Cour   for       lCA=   mS.oe  PSIan  K   t CoR
feu) Ntbhod
S. 1stee. Short Cour  (3 moutha)    1,538      225.1    -       89       89    S9       -           PtE    Spec. Coure for   IC aC             Ext. Spec. an Ext.
)(tb.d 8 gt.
9. Coputer traiI    (I moth             9      146.1    -       83       82      -      .            AEIPAhCo    intro. Crom    an ford  Proc-.. lust  sB
Ngt.ISpremd Sheet
10. Lab-Tech. Cor  (I  on)              327      60.0    -       41       40      -     -            PuSIPUI Spec. course  aPt. rert. Q.c. Procedre
11. Video training (1+1 muth)           122      28.0    -       14       14      -     -              :IMtEC, Spec. Video Trainin  Cours
12. CUS Coure (S yost)               84,052     344.2    -       81       80    s0    so             *gri. Tech. Soc. School Core  for I.T.
13. LnP    Training  (S                 620     113.7  50         -        -      -     -            Englh Lauge  Sdool  Coe for SMSS gotng to  33
14. Seed Diplou  (3 we)e)                24       7.2    -        *      2.4   2.4   2.4             Wt, Sed teting
IS. QC Tecnial Traing (3 montht   )      60       9.6    -        .      3.2   3.2   3.2             am.C Teditol Trining
16. AdSrn. trainng (3 mo)                60       9.6    -        -      3.2   3.2   3.2             MM10, Adn. Staff mangmnot trainig  t
17. Computer tainit (MC)                150      13.8    -      3.4      5.5   3.5   3.4              *C. Cmputer and word proctessn Be
Subtotal                            114.956   4.061.2  416  1.123.9  1.075.3  937.3 420.2                                                                                0  t4



X~~~~~~~~~~TOU                           To"                         =et bIffJ         109        PM"    octo5t   4 locaion
Itsulsobjecto                             "To      coo    ito    lotsiarVooe cootad Oai
onth.  (0o00)
1.   1 1iQs C         (4 Outh.)       54      540    s00    240                                    nil3. Tb. Phlippine) s   Train  the Trainer COWW  tin
labsL methodoing
2. 3*13115T30 Dir. Study Tour
(  uth)                           17     109     I0N       -       -       -     -            Sa     d,  no Pbil4pio. a5  Ju.    ShJR  Vtd,
Pi" org. and va. of Katame St Sotams
s. v*ucgcx3  Dir, stady Tour
(2 weets)                         Ss      59      t0 29                    ,                                         od  in tS I  odr  Ib mat"   Plamng
'yet-
4. tarmer  Me.. Stedy Tor
12 welok)                         is       8       .      U        .       .     .              J r        l         Comparstive stuy of VA. la Asia
Couatrte
S. 33 Vlome (12 oth)                   4       1 00    50    s5         -                                 (TlbM   Plppne.).    Traini    Spec.  in  1U1
4. Tsestim - Omere.                     4       14.J                 14.7                          Japn. tufonatim usetootI
7. Peat _magment                       2        9.2                            _      -douss .ailans   I p..
S. 11n. P         l  ub     - Ov0re"e
(U 12 II,,)                       24      40       -              55                          To be dtImi
9.   ulity Contr.llSaed Tetia
(6 _ioth)                         2      5s       -      2       28                          9 .  USA. Dmme*   q ity eare
10. Sd QC - 0,e        1n(ebI                   S       _       _       S      _      _           A sA
11. ead Ttig (I mob)                     I       4.4     -       -       -      .      -             roe
Subtotal (8te.amt1i  Treinin
sod Stuy TourS)              20     1027.j  489            111.9    6.4
MS. PMet   _       tO   of
1. a         Trainin  ( Smths)       575      105.5  175    175    65                                             S        Cour  for        P     Per    l
2. Proj. 2t. Trai  nI mth)             9       45.5   i5       15.5   i.       _      .              t. Treain   toot.I eao Mgt. Trainig for MIIP   Staff
3. Compater Trning  ( mOt)            00      18.3     -      50      50      _      .             ntro. Trainig   in gord Proca..  Spreadshet, and bta
as"c Ngp.                                                            d1
4. Oere" Stud  Tour (2 -ek)            6.5    47.7  00    10           -      -      -             ora  Project Mgt. in UJ.. Projet                                   p  0
5. Project magaentIlCAT    - Otere. .                                                                                                                                     Cl t
Study our                           4      29.4     -       -       -   29.4      -            Asi   Pre4'ot ?nplamutation                                            I
6. O,.ees Study Tour (2 weel)          J       11                      i t 11                     Ala lProject lu leMetatio                                            o
subtotl-  7TF. 5n7.   5
study Teue                           7S7. 5 27.4   no0    420.s        I 241    p4



AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES EPROJECT
Total   Total   IWhsina by year (wersoulmonths)   Proposed conte  anad
ltem/ subject                          No. of  person  cost   1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997    and locatione
persons moths  ($'000)
I.  Iealll
1. M.Sc. Seed Tech. (3 years.)        a     288    35.2      -    2    2    4    -    -  Agron./Seed Tech.
bejm  AS. Uiv. (MM
2. B.Sc. Agron. (2 years)            85   2,040    233.9     -   20   20   20   1S    5   4gron.1a20
3. Dlploma (1 year)                 167   2,004    245.1     -   So   37   30   30   20  Protneiial A8. Coil.
(a) ge" Testing                   67     804        -    -   20   17   10   10   10
(b) Seet roductton                S0     600        -           1S   10   10   10   10
(c) Seed Processlag               So     600        -    -   IS   10   10   10   10
4. Rztenslnn/Short Course
(a) Seed Testing                 312     311    85.6    _   So   S0   56   56  100  POTSChIUTEC/CAIKC                           o
(b) sed Procesels                756     756   207.9      -  100  100  150  200  206  PATUC/HTAECICATDC
(c) Seed Production              756      756   207.9     -  100  100  150  200  206  PATICIMATECICAIZC
(a) Seed Supply                  908     908   249.7      -  150  1S0   150  200  256  PATEC/IATZICATEC
S. Lags4ubs Trainlng (anglish)       14       84     15.3    -   10    4    ,    *    -  English Langusas Seboo.
I. International Trainia la
1. U.Sc. (Seed Tech.)                 2       24      40    -   12   12    -    -    -    bEc,cmanagement, Seed
Ind. *University of
2. Seed Enterprise Management        10       10      66    -    5    5    -    ,    -  Seed Co. Man.; Special
course to be arranged at
Univ. of Tbailand
3. Quality Control/Seed Testing       2       12      56    -   12    -    -    -    -  Seed lab. get., Quality
Control Systems; Danish
Inst. Seed Testing
0  



Total   Total   Phastun bv Year (nersonlmonths)    Proposed content and
Itemisubject                            go. of  person  cost    1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  199?    and locstions
persons months ($'000)
A.  rim Tecbhnical Assistance
I. Institutional Develomornt
1. quaplty Control                     I        I    1.S      -     I           _           -  Seed teetin  as pert of
quality
controll.ssurance for
the WNC Lab. In UelJins
2. Seed Production                      1       1    18.5      -     1                       -  Seed technolosY.
msagnot sad marestS*8
from national to couatg
3. Kanampnrt PlanaelkAcouatfr4        2        2    37.0      -     I     1    -    _       -  oinancJ m* naemsat--
costing and budgeting
4. Seed Processng                      1       1    18.5      -     I           -     -    -  All spects of eed
proceoeisg technques
from cleaning to
packaging                            -
0
la Pfinal cost of those courses not pet establlahed.1



CNINA
ACRIWLIrA. "M9OT SERVICES PROJCT
Phased Training Cost schedute for tlvestock ond Catr tine Sehcoqponents
Total    Total          Phtaed Cost (W5s 060)
Training or                      Person     cost .........................................
Technical Assistance             Nanths  (USS000)  1993   1994   1995   19V6   1997   1996  Proposed Content
................................ ....... .....................................  ......................................................
A. QUARANTINE SERVICES
I. Overseas trainingStud  tours T
quarantine management                41    246.0  180.0  30.0  36.0                          Plant and animat quarantine    _pnt headquarters
study tours                          92    459.2  69.9   94.8  94.8  99.8  99.8              Tedhnical attachments, several coontries
Subtotat                           133    785.2  249.9  124.8  130.8  99.8  99.8    0.0
It. Oomestic Training
Ptant quarantine                    600    1S1.1           23.9   23.9  23.9   18.3  20.2  In-service training In diagnostic tab techntques
Animal quarantine                   350    64.2            18.3   18.3   9.2   9.2   9.2  tn-servtce training In diagnostic tab techniques
Training management                   2      7.3    7.3
Project ffanagement training        876   SS8.7  89.9  122.0  1S4.1   96.3   96.3
study tours                           4     25.7  2S.7                                       Vlsits to local Institutes
tcChnical training                  220    40.4            4.6    8.3   9.2   9.2   9.2 Varlous technicat topics, In-service training
Subtotal                          2052    806.4  122.9  166.8 204.6  138.5  133.0  38.5
P. tIVESTOCK SUPPORT SERVICES
1. n'mestic training
tintional Center directors          100     18.4            5.5    S.5    3.7   3.7          Senior mwengement training
Disease investigation                75     13.8                   8.3    5.S                courses in disease monitoring; natt epi unit
f fvestock extension                300     55.0   11.0  11.00l 11.0  11.0  11.0             Kati AUC  training program for provinces
teed prodaction                      80     14.7           7.3    3.7   3.7                  Feed qtity control training for nati staff
romixiter management                200    36.7    7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3   7.3            In-service skclls training for AWSC staff
senior management                    10      1.8    0.9    0.9                               _angemmt training for senior   ugers
Project management                   80     14.8    3.7    3.7    3.7   3.7                  In-service training for Center onwaers 
Livestock production managemt       100     18.4            S.S    S.5   3.7   3.7           Prodtlon training for Center staft
tanquage training                    40      7.3    3.7    1.8    1.8                        ESL training for ARINC staff for ohs training
Gerrptasm technology                 32     46.4           SS    9.7  10.6  10.8    9.7  tralning for llatl gene bak center
Ipidemiology                         1S      2.8            0.6    0.6    0.6   0.6    0.6  Training for Kati Epidaeiology unit staff
Laboratory management                40      6.6            1.S    2.2   2.9                 Vet. Instnuent & prodects testing
lnboratory technology               200    33.0             7.3   11.0   14.7                In-service training for vet predwct & Instrment testing
SPF unit training                    10      1.8            1.8                              8PF ea  prodoction technotogy
ntia ity control training            45    30.9            10.7  19.6   0.2    0.2    0.2  QC training for feed. ghmracetliat centers
t1impecifled training               475     80.8    5.5   22.9  22.0  21.1   9.2             teserved for further allocation according to need
Subtotal                          1802   383.2  32.1  93.S  111.9  88.7  46.5  10.5
it. International Tralning                                                                                                                                         A
study tours                          34    215.1  89.9   64.2  48.2                          Tednfical visits to  ealuate nme tedmoglogies 
Short term technical training       1O5   522.9  118.3  255.4  149.2                         Technical attacments In animal health, prmxtion                        | i'
B.Sc program                         24     36.6          36.6               .  
sPF unit traIning                     4     35.7          35.7                               SPF egg proedctton technology                                          0
Vet. pharmaceuticats QC trafning     50    227.5          95.6  109.2  18.2   4.6            Vet. pharmaceutical  C disanostle technology                           F
Stbtotal                           217   1037.9  206.3  487.5  306.6   1.2   4.6    0.0
C. LIVESTOCK FIELO SERVICES
1. Domestic Tratning
Sttdy tours                         521    220.2  49.2  122.9   23.9   11.T   8.1    4.4  Local study tours for onto. prod*ttinaheolth topics
tivestock extension methodology   2832    808.1   16.0  207.3  282.2  142.7  136.3  23.S  Livestock extension training for proviwnei staff
Disease Investigation              2831    835.7  42.0  233.6  246.4  146.5  130.9  36.2  Provlncial epidemIology staff training
cocnputer management                617    110.3   9.5   32.7  35.1  28.8   4.2              CoWputer skill training for pro  and strprov staff
Post graduate training              117    566.6  239.6  269.5  59.4                         Locat 8Sc in oint. prod - health
training management                  77    14.1    2.0   12.1                                Trainng manSero   trairni.
unspecified training               1482    249.0  36.0   48.6  47.7  44.6  42.4   29.7  To be determined according to need



coiA
AGRIaCtIMAL SUPPORT S ICuES PIECT
hissed TraIning cost scbe6zle for Livestock and Quarantine Sabcomponents
Totat    total           Ph_as  Cost CUlS N00)
traluaisg or                         Person     Cost .
T4chnfcal Assistance                 Ibnths  (S10001  1993   1994    995   1996   19?   1996  Prposed Content
.1L ....... ....... ................. ....... .......................... ........................ ......................................... .......... ............_
IECCNICAL ASSIITAIICE
1. PatIey support                         4     73.4   73.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    O.P    0.0
A.  iUTllATIOilL TA
Plant quarantin  speclatist           1     18.3   18.3                                        Technical r*lew of coetabllity of plant quantine low
Wlth Intenitinalty accepted stadds
Animt quarantine specildist           1     18.3   18.3                                        Tedhnicat reviem of compatablilty of anialt luprantine laws
with internatlinally accepted stendbirds
abtotat                              2     36.7   36.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
It. Institutlonal bevelapoant           167    572.4    5.7  522.   220.2   69.S  5.8    3.7
A. IUTIIUAII"UM IA
(a) uawrantine Servlcos
Pa)wt dise  e diagnosticlan           4     73A.           18.3   18.3   18.3   18.3           tolecutlaw  ssy and ELISA dlagntic teclnology for diagnosis
of exotic ptant diseases for qimrantine staff
Animal disease diagncstlelon          4     73.4       -   18.3   18.3   18.3   18.3          Molecular assay and ELISA dlagnostic tethnetogy for diagois
of exotic animal  diseas   for quarantine staff
(b) tivestock Spport Services
Animal breeding                       I     18.3           18.3                               Anil/tipoultry geruptsA  preservatlo  for nett gene bn*
Forage grass evaluatlen               1     18.3           18.3                               Forae plant  e.wplas preservatln for natt gene ba*
Epidmoloelgy                          1     18.3           18.3                               Epidemiotgital survey techniques for natt epidemiolosy unit                       I
Laboratory  _ummnt                    1     18.3                  18.3                        Principtes of laboratory menagueent at AIVS, nm-t vet tab
SPF *eg  production tA                9     18.7            3.1    3.1   3.1    9.4           Pathogen monitoring technlques for SPf lab staff
feed QC training                      3     S5.0           18.3   18.3   18.3                 Feed analysis technfques for matl feed quality control staff
Vet. fisrm  QC traIning               9    165.1          110.1   SS.0                        Oruo  analysis tedhniques for natt vet pbrmaoeutical QC staff
Cc) Livestock field Servimes
Anlmsl productlontheatth              2     36.7           36.7                               Dlagnostic and animal prodectlon techniques for prev AINYCO
iseae investigation                   4     73.4           36.7   36.7                         Feltd disease survey tedhniques for provimcil MVmC staff
feed QC trainIng                      4     73.4           36.7   36.?                        feed sasptin, and analtsis for provinciat staff
nspecifled training                   S     91.7           91.7
Cd) Organizational Review DA/DAB         4     82.6           82.6                               Dept of Anbial Uudiamfr*yProv Al organliatinal revwie
*.  OCAL VA
(a)  uarntine Services
arantine speclalista                 50     18.3    2.2    4.4    4.4    2.2    1.5    3.7  ilagois of exotic plantanlil dlseases for qwrntine staff
fb) Livestock field sevic*s                                                                                                                                                  il
Coqiter programIn                   61     33.6    1.7    8.6   10.8    9.2    3.3           tap eter training, provincial lel, In S4Iport of Info system
Ce) Orzational review DAN                4      3.6    1.8    1.8                                Dept of Animalt Uub dry/ProvA  orgAn im etienal review
, ,F, .. ._ . ................................. .............................................................. *   _  _  .................................. J............................................................... -   t



- 112 -
ANNKX 4
Page 1 of 4
&MICULTURAL SUpPORT SERVCESa PROJECT
StrengthenLng Research-Education-Extension-Farmer LLnkaes
1.    The  project  seeks  to  strengthen  research-education-extension-farmer
linkages through several different project inputs and mechanisms. Some of the
project activities that are designed to strengthen these linkages are described
in this Annex.
Strengthening Adaptive Research Capacity in the ATEC System:
2.    The adaptive research function, that is designed to develop location
specific technology for different commodity, cropping and farming systems, will
be more fully institutionalized and strengthened within the agrotechnical
extension (ATEC) system itself, especially at the prefecture or municipal (MATEC)
and county (CATEC) levels. This adaptive research function will be carried out
by the technical or subject matter specialists (SMSs) within the ATEC system.
These SMSs, in turn, will train and backstop the township agrotechnical extension
station (TATES) staff who will demonstrate these on-farm research findings and
train the farmer technicians and demonstration farmers who will utilize these
technical recommendations at the village level. Therefore, the adaptive research
function will become the primary responsibility of the ATEC system.
3.    This adaptive research capacity will be strengthened at the MATEC and CATEC
levels by establishing a farming systems research (FSR)/crop management research
(CMR) training capacity in each PATEC.   In each of the ten participating
provinces, 4 FSR/CMR training specialists from each PATEC will be trained at the
International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) and then they will be fully equipped
to carry out this training role within the province.   It is noted that the
initial plan was for one-half of these training specialists to be trained at the
International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMKYT), but due to its
discontinuation of CMR adaptive research training, all FSR/CMR training will be
conducted at IRRI. Therefore, the second short course will cater to the needs
of those participants who come from provinces where maize and wheat are the
primary crops.
Research-Extension Linkages:
4.    To strength the research-extension linkage between the provincial academy
of agricultural sciences (PAAS) and the PATEC, one adaptive research specialist
from each PAAS will be selected and trained at IRRI along the side of the PATEC
trainers. It is expected that these adaptive research specialists from each PAAS
will become part of the provincial FSR/CHR training team upon their return from
the Philippines. Also, this provincial FSR/CMR training team will coordinate and
backstop this newly organized and strengthened adaptive research capacity at the
MATEC and CATEC levels.
5.    A total of 54 specialists (5/province, plus 4 additional SNSs from the
NATEC) will be trained as FSR/CHR trainers during two special short courses at
IRRI, starting in July, 1993. A senior level IRRI training specialist will



- 113 -
ANNE 
Page 2 of 4
participate in the "skill gap analysis" that is tentatively scheduled for
October-November, 1992 to further 4efine the curriculum for these two special
short courses. To provide administrative orientation and support for these new
FSR/CMR training and adaptive research activities, the directors of each PATEC
will undertake a study tour of farming system research/extension (FSR/E) programs
in Thailand aud the Philippines, as well as to study adaptive research/extension
programs in Japan. Also, the directors of all participating MATECs and CATECs
will undertake two weeks study tours of FSR/E programs in Thailand, concentrating
or- rice and maize based farming systems as appropriate for each of the four
different study tours.
6.    To firmly establish FSR/CMR training capacity in each PATEC, starting in
early 1994 and at its own expense, IRRI will commit about 36 pm of technical
assistance to these provincial trainers as they conduct their first course or two
in each province. The project will only pay for the travel expenses of these
IRRI's training specialists who will rotate between the different provinces.
Also, the project will fund two experienced, adaptive research specialists from
the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS) and two senior, adaptive
research specialists from the NATEC to become post-graduate research fellows at
IRRI for 12 months. These four "fellows" will work along side the IRRI training
team during both of the two, special four month training courses that will be
held for these PATEC/PAAS/NATEC trainers at IRRI headquarters.
7.   These four training specialists (fellows) will have access to all of IRRI's
FSR/CKR training materials and they will be expected to select, adapt, and then
translate all of these training materials into Chinese. In addition, steps will
be taken to access CIMMYT's FSR/CMR training materials that are specific to maize
and wheat production.   Once all of these materiais have been modified and
translated, they will be duplicated or produced in the new extension
communications support unit that is being established within the new NATEC.
Then, these four IRRI follows, plus the four additional SMSs from the NATEC who
will receive IRRI training, will return home to create the central support unit
within the CAAS and the NATEC for adaptive research training throughout the
country. Together, they will form the apex unit to link the NATEC and CAAS to
IRRI and the other international agricultural research centers (IARCs) to further
enhance FSR/CMR research methodology and the development of new FSR/CHR training
materials.
Research-Education-Extensign Linkages:
8.    At the national level, all 68 technical specialists in the new NATEC will
undergo a minimum of three months of in-service training that will be organized
and managed by Beijing Agricultural University (BAU) and that will involve
directed independent study under the guidance of senior scientists at the CAAS.
The goal is to create a direct working relationship between these national level
SMSs and the senior scientific and teaching staff at CAAS and BAU, respectively.
When these SMS complete their different in-service training courses they should
be fully conversant with the latest technical research and findings for their
area of specialization and, through this experience, it is expected that most
SMSs will establish an on-going working relationship with these senior scientists
at the CAAS and BAU. Comparable programs will be organized at the provincial



- 114 -
level.
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
9.    The project will use several other mechanism to strengthen research-
education-extension linkages. For example, considerable emphasis is being given
to M Sc degree training at the national, provincial, prefectural or municipal,
and county levels of the ATEC system. In addition to up-grading the skills and
knowledge of the most promising SMSs at each level, these post-graduate degree
programs will be designed to include course work at the (provincial) agricultural
university (PAU) and thesis research on an adaptive research topic that will be
jointly supervised by PAAS and PAU scientific staff. Again, the goal is to both
strengthen adaptive research capacity within the ATEC system and to build strong
working relationships between ATEC SMSs and the scientific staff at research
institutions and agricultural universities at all levels.
10. Another mechanism to strengthen research-education-extension linkages is
by appointing PAAS and PAU scientists to "standing" advisory panels or technical
committees that will be established by each PATEC, MATEC, and CATEC in the
project area. It is expected that these carefully selected advisory committee
members will alert the ATEC system about promising new technologies, they will
help coordinate the applied research work of the PAAS and PAAU in each project
area, and they will help guide and assess the adaptive research program of each
participating NATEC and CATEC. These research and university personnel will also
serve as part of the feedback system on farmer problems to the PAAS and PAU in
each province. A comparable panel will be established at the national level
between the CAAS, national agricultural universities, such as the BAU. and the
Central Agricultural Broadcasting and Television School (CABTS).
Farmer-Extension-Research Linkages:
11. The project is giving particular emphasis to the organization of farmer
associations (FAs) in both the crop and livestock sectors.   These farmer
organizations are already springing up throughout the country, but with varying
degrees of success. The project will fund a series of activities, including a
study of FAs in China (already underway), a study tour of FAs in other Asian
countries, a national FA workshop, and pilot projects to develop and test the
most appropriate methodology and models for establishing FAs throughout the
project area and country.
12. As the ATEC system takes the leadership for establishing commodity specific
and comprehensive FAs throughout the country, these farmer organizations will
begin to function as an effective feedback system to both research and extension.
In the project area, the CATECs and TATES will establish advisory committees and
panels for farmers to have a direct role in program planning and development.
Leaders of these FAs will be represented on these general advisory committees and
commodity specific panels to provide direct input into the formulation of
adaptive research programs and in guiding at-. evaluating extension programs.
Also, it is expected that these FAs will develop a close working relationship
with the county level Science and Technology Commissions that fund research-
extension projects that are proposed by each CATEC. Through these different
types of interaction, farmers can have a direct impact on formulating adaptive
research-extension priorities and programs.



- 115 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
QCntract Ressarch:
13.   In each province, the ATEC system will have a budget for contract research
and for the development of training materials and modules. Each year, the ATEC
system will identify one or more key research priorities and issue an request for
proposals  (RFP)  from  the  PAAS  and  the  PAU.    The  purpose  of  these
research/training funds is to draw research attention to key production problems
that limit crop productivity in the province. In effect, extension will begin
to create a "demand" for specific types of problem oriented research on the part
of the PAU and PAAS.   LikewLse, when the PAAS or PAU has a promising new
technology, the PATEC will be able to contract with the appropriate institution
to develop training materials that will enhance the in-service training of the
extension field staff about that new technology.



- 116 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5
AGRIMULTURA SUPORT SERVICES PRQLEC
Farmer Associations and Village Economic Cooperatves
I. The Present Status ogf Farmers Organizations in China
A. Farmer Study Groups and Associations
1.    Information provided by the Science and Technology Association indicates
that there are approximately 103,000 farmer study groups and associations (FAs)
throughout China with a total membership of about 3.0 million. There are four
major types of FAs in China; each type is described briefly below:
2.    Sgecial technology type:  these FAs devote most of their time to the study
of production technology for a specific crop or enterprise. Indigenous experts
and specialized farm households are central to this type of organization.
Members exchange experiences among themselves about different production
practices on an ad hoc basis. For example, some paddy rice study groups conduct
training for their members, multiply better varieties, and carry out high
yielding demonstrations; others may only have regular monthly meetings to receive
training and discuss technical practices.
3.    Technical service tyge: this type of FA provides technical assistance and
related services to their members before, during and after the productioa of a
specific crop, livestock or poultry enterprise. Specifically, these associations
arrange for farmers to gain access to credit, production inputs, and marketing
services; also they may arrange for farmers to receive training on new production
technology.
4.    Business management type:  FAs of this type provide many types of direct
services to farmers, including input supply, provision of credit, processing of
agricultural products, and provision of marketing services. This type generally
moves rapidly to become an enterprise and farmer members subscribe as
shareholders of these businesses.   An example of this type would be the
watermelon study association in Xincheng County in Hubei Province; it has seed
multiplication farms in several provinces, with six vehicles and fixed assets
totaling over Y300,000.
5.    Vertically integrated tMpe:  this is the most advanced type of FA and most
are vertically integrated enterprises. For example, the cattle raising FA in
Pengjiazhuang Township of Xinle County in Hubei Province regularly fattens about
300 calves, hires 90 workers, and has an abattoir and storage facilities. Also,
it sends salesmen to Beijing, Shanghai, Lanzhou and other big cities to market
animals and negotiate contracts; it has an annual production value of about Y20.0
million.



- 117 -
ANNE 
Page 2 of 5
6.    FAs have grown rapidly over the past decade as farmers seek to increase
farm income, on one hand, and to build a more prosperous rural economy, on the
other. Farmers recognize that improved technical knowledge can increase their
productivity and, through cooperative enterprises, they can generate addiZional
off-farm income to improve the well being of the farm household.
B. Village Economic Cooperatives
7.    Throughout the country there are village economic cooperatives which
parallel the village counsel in carrying out economic activities within each
village.   These organizations can be traced back to when the production
responsibility system was initiated. Subsequently, in 1983, the State Council
advocated the establishment of village eeonomic cooperatives under the existing
collective principle for economic devel: *ment. However, it was not until 1987,
after farmers had developed confidence 4a the production responsibility system,
that they recognized the need for cooperative organization. Currently, there are
1.89 million cooperatives on record in 740,000 villages across the country.
8.    In January 1991, the State Council once again re-emphasized the importance
of setting up rural economic cooperatives. Because farmland is collectively
owned, a primary function of the village cooperative is to manage the farmland
within the area of the village and to maintain it as a production resource.
Other functions include maintenance of production facilities, such as irrigation
systems, and carrying out joint activities such as pest control and land
preparation. Also, some village economic cooperatives help farmers obtain farm
inputs and assist with the marketing of tarm products. In a number of cases,
these economic cooperatives have developed village enterprises to utilize excess
labor within the village.
9.    According to information provided by the Department of Rural Cooperative
Economy in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), rural cooperative organizations can
be classified into three types.  First, there are the production management
types,  which manage farmland and maintain irrigation facilities.   These
cooperatives are organized by farmers and account for 60% of all rural
cooperatives. Second, the service type of cooperative organizations assists in
input supply and product marketing, as well as in the operation of farm
machlinery. This type accounts for 33% of all village cooperatives. Third, there
are other types of farmer study groups and associations that differ from the
farmer associations described earlier and account for about 6-7% of all the
village economic cooperative organizations.
10.   In rural China, there are other types of farmer organizations such as the
Farmers Cooperative Foundation. These organizations have residual funds passed
along from the savings of the previous production teams and from other sources.
These funds are channeled through either the farmer study groups or the economic
cooperatives for production purposes and/or the promotion of village enterprises.
Other rural organizations, such as the supply and marketing corporations or
credit cooperatives, are under the supervision and guidance of the Ninistries of
Commerce and Finance, respectively.



- 118 -
ANNE -5
Page 3 of 5
II. Sua6grting Institutions
A. Science and Technologp Association
11.   The Chinese Science and Technology Association (CSTA) was established in
1949 with two organizations; one was called the National Science Popularization
Association and the other was known as the Chinese Science and Technology Workers
Federation. In 1958, these two organizations were merged and the present name
adopted. The main purpose of the CSTA is for science and technology exchange,
and its popularization. There are 159 different oational societies under the
Science  and  Technology  Association  representing  different  scientific
fields/disciplines, which operate at the national and lower levels.  At the
township and village level,  the association ls known as the Science and
Technology Popularization Association (STPA) which, in turn, organizes farmer
study groups and associations (FAs).
12.   The CSTA is a people's organization that is designed to encourage the use
of science and technology to increase productivity across many fields, including
agriculture. In each township, the deputy chief of agriculture is responsible
for the township science and technology program for the agricultural sector.
There is usually one worker assigned to work with the deputy chief to organize
FAs throughout the township. Normally, a township STPA committee is organized
with the deputy township chief as its chair and leading persons in the township
serve as committee members to promote these farmer study groups and associations.
Beginning in 1980, the CSTA began conducting training programs for farmers. In
addition, they began evaluating and then certifying farmer technicians (FTs) and
assistant technicians, who were judged to be technically competent to advise
farmers. In some areas, the extension system assists in the establishment of
these FAs, but in most counties and townships, extension personnel are not active
in organizing farmers into FAs.
III. Rationale and Basic Considerations
13.   Farmer associations offer considerable potential ln increasing agricultural
productivity and rural household incomes by rapidly disseminating improved
technology, and by creating farm related enterprises that can utilize excess
household labor and, thereby, increase household income. To date, most PAs have
developed In a somewhat ad hoc manner, depending in large part on local
leadership. While the CSTA has provided guidance and a general organizational
framework under which FAs can develop, the STPAs lack the human and
organizational resources to provide much assistance in helping farmers establish
and operate their own FAs. While many extension personnel belong to professional
associations under the STAs, the extension system itself has not played an active
role in helping to organize FAs nor in using them to disseminate new technology
and train farmers.
14.   It appears that FAs could facilitate the work of extension and be an
important mechanism to increase the technical and managerial skills of farmers.
Also, FAs can serve as an excellent feedback system to extension regarding the
usefulness of new technologies and problems that need research attention. If FAs
can be developed throughout the country, this would be an important step forward
in creating a demand driven extension system.



- 119 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of S
IV.  ProDosed Activitees
15.   Under both the agrotechnlcal extension and livestock services components
of the Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP), it is proposed that
extension become active in the development and use of FAs in technology
dissemination, farmer training and enterprise development. To determine how
extension can best help develop and support FAs at the village and township
levels, it is proposed that a three step procedure be followed. The first step
would involve a study of existing FAs in China to determine which types of FAs
seem to be most effective in carrying out different objectives. The second step
would be to carefully examine farmer organizations in other Asian countries to
determine how extension and farmer organizations work together for the benefit
of farm households. Following a national workshop (para. 20), the third step
would be to develop pilot projects in 6 provinces, that would involve training
crops and livestock extension personnel at the township and village levels, to
enable extension to systematically organize FAs to achieve particular objectives
based on local preference.
16.   These three major tasks will be organized by the General Station of Rural
Cooperative Economic Management (GSRCEM) in the Department of Rural Cooperative
Economy and $183,500 has been allocated for these proposed activities (the study
of FAs in China has already been started in anticipation of retroactive
financing).   In carrying out these activities, the GSRCEM will collaborate
directly with the Farmer Association Specialists to be appointed in the new
National Agrotechnical Extension Center (NATEC), as well as with counterpart
personnel in the Department of Animal Husbandry (DAH). Each of these planned
activities are described in Working Paper 1 and summarized below.
A. Study of Farmer Associations in China
17.   Immediately following appraisal, the GSRCEM was commissioned to carry out
studies of FAs in different parts of the country. The provinces selected for
these studies will be among those that are participating in the agrotechnical
extension and livestock components of ASSP. These studies will be geographically
distributed across the country, so that a representative overview of the current
trends, status, and characteristics of FAs can be determined. In addition, each
study would examine similarities and differences among FAs, across different
livestock, cash, and food crop enterprises, as well as for other types of FAs.
B. Study Tours of Farmer Or;anizations in Selected Asian Countries
18.   Following the workshop (para. 20), selected individuals from the national
and provincial level, representing both livestock and crop extension, would be
selected to participate in one of two study tours in selected Asian countries.
These study tours would focus on the role of FAs in technology transfer, input
supply, and marketing; also, they would examine the role of extension in
developing and supporting FAs. It is expected that crop and livestock extension
personnel, from both the national level and each participating province, would
participate in these study tours. In addition, the four principal investigators
from the GSRCEM will participate in these study tours, sin_e they would
eventually be responsible for developing training materials and assisting in
training workshops for provincial and lower level extension personnel.



- 120 -
Page 5 of 5
19.   About 24 extension specialists would partiLipate in these study tours,
therefore, it i8 suggested that they go in two groups of approximately 12 persons
each, plus interpreters. By breaking up into two groups, each group will be more
manageable and they can go to different countries, thereby, increasing their
coverage of different FA experiences. Some possible countries that they might
visit would include Japan, Malaysia, and India. Following this study tour, a
more formal set of policy guidelines would be developed by the NATEC, with
appropriate input from the participating provinces. Then, training materials
would be developed and workshops conducted for livestock and agrotechnical
extension personnel in the pilot project areas.
C. National Workshop on Farmer Associations:
20.   After data collection and analysis has been completed, the principal
investigators in addition to FA specialists from NATEC and the DAH will conduct
a five day workshop at the MOA. Participants for the workshop would be officials
from the Department of Agriculture (DOA), DAH, CSTA, as well as counterpart
personnel from the provincial level. During the first day of the workshop, the
four principal investigators would present their findings, and discuss the
current status and trends of FAs in their respective provinces.   During the
second day, the observations and results will be discussed and summarized in
terms of what is applicable in China.   The remainder of the workshop will
concentrate on developing policy and operational guidelines that will be
subsequently tested through the pilot projects to the further development of FAs
across the country.
21.   Another outcome of the National Workshop would be the establishment of an
d hoc national advisory committee on farmer associations.  This committee would
include representatives from the national CSTA, the DOA and DAH from the MOA, the
State Council, and other governmental agencies. This advisory committee would
be established to give poliey guidance in implementing the pilot projects. It
would be expected to develop guidelines and procedures for the systematic
development of FAs in the pilot areas.   It is assumed that the principal
investigators from the GSRCEM, as well as FA specialists from the new NATEC and
the DAH would assist the committee in developing these guidelines and procedures,
and then assist in developing the training materials and conducting the training
workshops in selected pilot project areas.
D. Pilot Project to Organize Farmer Study Groups and Associations
22.   Following the analysis of FAs in selected provinces and the study tour of
farmer organizations in Asia, and the National Workshop, the details of the pilot
project to directly involve extension in the organization of FAs will be
finalized with the help of the National Advisory Committee. It is expected that
this pilot project will use systematic procedures to organize FAs at the township
and village level of selected counties in six participating provinces. It is
expected that the types of FAs to be established in the six pllot project sites
may differ somewhat, therefore, different approaches may be needed. In most
cases, however, the emphasis will be on training the extension personnel at the
county, township, and village level to help get farmers interested and organized
into FAs that will be helpful in achieving there objectives.



- 121 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
CHIN
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Computing Services and Management Information Systems
A. Information Management Rexnonsibilities
Department of Agriculture
1.    The Information Division of the national Department of Agriculture
(DOA) was established in 1981. The division has seven technical staff
specializing in information distribution and feedback, and the management of
the information system. They normally only interact with provincial level
units, through whom they make contact down to county and township levels. The
information flow from the lower levels takes place through two sources--the
regular flow of information to the division is through the provincial and
county administration units of the Bureau of Agriculture and the indirect flow
of information is through the information units of the production divisions of
agriculture at each level. The division estimates that the two sources
provide equal shares of the agricultural information received at national
level. They also estimate that staff involved in the information collection,
aggregation and communication total 195,300 at all levels, including 80,000
locations, and with 380,000 households providing household information.
2.    The Information Divisions' reporting responsibilities are to the
Director of the DOA who decides what is to be brought to the attention of the
appropriate Vice Minister (for policy action) or to the relevant department
(if it is an operational matter). Information provided to the Director of DOA
comprises regular reports on crop status and forecasts, and irregular reports
on rural problems such as crop failures, inadequate material supply, lack of
markets, etc. As information travels up from the lower levels of the system,
decisions makers at each level can take action wherever necessary.
The Denartment of Animal Husbandry
3.    The Department of Animal Husbandry (DAH) at the national level prepares
proforma for distribution to provinces and through them to the counties. The
counties collect these data and forward them to the provinces. Reporting from
the counties and provinces takes place quarterly; meetings are held to discuss
annual programs with representatives from the higher level. This general
reporting covers livestock disease, scope of veterinary activities, livestock
health status and impact of drugs and medicines on disease. When there are
outbreaks of disease of economic importance these are reported immediately to
the next higher level by telephone for advice and appropriate action.



- 122 -
Page 2 of 5
The Ouarantine Service
4.    The National Animal and Plant Quarantine Service (NAPQS) has its own
Information division with responsibility for collecting and storing data on:
a. The laws and regulations of different countries with whom China trades
animal and plant products.
b. Internationally known diseases and diseases recorded in China with
data on the location, number of animals affected, etc.
c. Technical information for distribution to technicians.
5.    The NAPQS has 115 microcomputers spread throughout the country in their
quarantine stations. The service intends to link these decentralized units to
the head office by installing additional computer equipment, as specified
below, in their headquarters. These plans to upgrade the information systems
of the NAPQS will be supported under the project.
The Information Center
6.    The Information Center was established in 1987 with the responsibility
of developing a system which would "use the techniques of computer, data
communications and methods of systems engineering to collect, process and
transfer information on agriculture, livestock and fisheries and provide a
basis for decision-making at various levels of government' and supply
"services for pre-production, during production, and post production.'
7.    The Information Center has established a computer center in the MOA
building equipped with hardware and software worth approximately US$ 1
million. At present, the Information Center has 43 staff, including 3 senior
engineers, 10 engineers and 30 technicians.
B. Proposed Strategv
hulysis
8.    The MOA Information Center is one of the technical agencies in the
Ministry that has the resources to design and implement computer based systems
and to provide associated training and maintenance assistance. The project
will strengthen computer services and management information systems for those
departments in the MOA that are associated with the project. In addition, the
Information Center will provide technical assistance support and auxiliary
services in the development, training and maintenance of management
information systems for those same agencies.



_ 123 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
Strategy
9.    To meet the computing and MIS needs of the project, technical
assistance, hardware, and software will be provided to the DAH, DOA, DEER,
NAPQS, Information Center and other MOA agencies associated with the project.
In addition, the training requirements for all project participants in the use
of micro-computers, as well as other computer oriented training needs,
including the Information Center, will be determined and provided by the
project. Finally, an Information Working Committee has been established to
provide direction and guidance for all the computer related activities to be
undertaken under this project. The member6hip includes representatives from
the Information Center and the DOA, DAH, and NAPQS.
C. Present Comguter Resources
10.   Present central computer resources include a minicomputer (DEC VAX
8250), a server (DEC VAX 3100) and a work station (Micro VAX II) which form a
local area cluster in the Information Center (IC). There is also a PBX (CBX
8000 II) with 800 local extensions. There are 29 microcomputers and 85
professional staff members using, or qualified to use, computers in the
existing central stations that will be reorganized to make up the National
Technical Extension Center (NATEC), the National Agrotechnical Service Center
(NATSC), and the Administration Center and in the Animal Husbandry and
Veterinary Service Center (AHVSC). The computing resources of National Animal
and Plant Quarantine Service (NAPQS) were described above.
D. Systems AgDroach
11.   The Information Working Group (chaired by the Chief Engineer in charge
of the Information Center and consisting of all of the aforementioned
organizational components) has been appointed and has developed an effective
proposal in strengthening computing and information services for the
participating agencies. Under this proposal, the assignment of
responsibilities has been set up an computing/information systems master plan,
using a three tier concept, in which:
Tier 1--The Information Center is responsible for central hardware and
software standard setting, for central database design, to provide "in
house" technical assistance, and to set training standards for DOA, DAR,
NAPQS. In addition, the IC would continue to serve as the data
processor for MOA. Finally, the IC would set overall, general computing
standards for "agricultural information processing" at the province and
lower levels.
Tier-2--The Computer Services Unit serving NATEC and NATSC would
be responsible for administering the local area networks to be
installed in support of these two unified agencies. This unit
would assist in the installation of hardware and software for
these two agencies, provide centralized training services for
general and statistical software, carry out systems diagnostics, monitor



- 124 -
AMnE 6
Page 4 of 5
systems performance, and plan for future development of the NATEC/NATSC
systems support.
TeL3- -The subordinate organizational units in the NATEC and
NATSC would use, develop, and analyze information and data using
microcomputers (and general and specialized software) that will be
connected to the 2 local area networks (LAN). All of these
facilities, including a fiber optic telephone system, will be
located in the new NATSC headquarters building to be provided by
the project.
.12.   In order to properly support the new organizational designs for NATEC,
NATSC, and Administration, as well as AHVSC and NAPQS, the Information Working
Grouw' recommended the following additional computer resources. Key elements
of the proposed enhancements to the information systems are shown Table 1. A
detailed budget for enhancing the computing capacity of the Information Center
is included in Table 2.
Table 1:
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED ADDITIONAL COMPUTER RESOURCES
_   sgencx   Comnuter        Micros_    Telephone LAW  lEn
IC            VAX 6610/4200    1 work                   yes
station
NATEC/NATSC
& ADNIN        4200             65          700 lines* yes      1
AHVSC          4200             25          *           yes     1
NAPQS          4200             10 VDT/                 yes
4200 (2)         3 servers
in two ports     10 micros
DEER                            10 micros                yes
*   A new telephone system is to'be shared by these
agencies.



- 125 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 5
Table 2:
COSTS OF ENHANCEHEWTS TO THE INFOR MATION SYSTEM
ESTIMATED BUDGET FOR THE MINISTRY
INFORMATION CENTER COMPUTED SYSTEM
J  -:. - : .3/^...tY...   * Co-t*.:
Computer:
add cluster node              VAX 6610               1            228,000
RAM                           64 MB                  1             86,000
Disk controller               KDM70                  1             30,300
parallel interface            CISCD                  1             47,000
hard disk                     RA92                   1             35,000
..tape driver                  TU81..... 1                          37,700
parallel disk controller      HSC40                  2             96,000
Workstation:                              _1                         60,000
Software:                                                            80,000
b__~~g



AMICUURAL SuPw  SEVIeS PUICT
KEn Uoultorina Indicators
Agricultural Wananoment and Infotmatlon Sste
SiR    1993    1993   1994    1994   1995        1"S    1996    M96
Project input indlcators                          Unlt                Target Planned  Actual Planned  Actual Planned  Actual Pla_ned  Actual
lInormation lalnnin
Adopt coneept                                     do.
Develop functional spee.                         doe.
Contie infomatio  mater planin                    rpt
Plea database deVelopment                         rpt
Ple  infomatio  processing OW& training           rpt
Annal update of Information system mseter plan    doe.
Eardware & Software Acauialtion
linaljie snd i8sUe procurement document.          4oe.
Prepare procurement decision matrix               do.
Prepare for plosed lnstallation                   dec.
Prepar siltes for inetellation                    doe.
Initiate Installation                             rpt
Technical Aslsitane & Tralnina
I. Agriultural Info=aCtlon
Selct consultants & Institutions              dec./concracts
functional Spec. Consultants                  doe.J
(forei8n and local)                         contracts
Information System Planning Consultants       doe.J 
(forelgn & local)                           contracts                                                                                 Elm
Database Consultants (foreSin & local)        doc.1contracte
Applications tralning                         contracts
Operating system training                     contracts
Database training                             contracts
II. JnbutzlFnxrn
Selet consultents                            doe./coutnaet
Senior Advisor (foreign)                      doe./contract
Adivisor (local)                              dec. leonroot
Project Management Specialist (forelgn)       doe./coneract
Maiagemeat Specialist (local)                 doe. IAoncact



AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SIRVICES PROECT
Let MouItorinn Indicators
ARrotechnlcal Ustenon Centers
SAR    I993    1993   1994    1994   1995    1995   1996    1996
Project lipt idicators                           Unit     Target Planed  Actual Pland  Actual Planned  Actual Planed  Actual
gm,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
facltie att                                      n./dt
OrVgenatnle & stats plane                        rpt
Operation" _as els                               rpt
lleorgni:aeip conpiet d                          qivt/dgem
conetone "                                       m
laeilltle ompleted                               no.lIdate 
Vidlequip I./eutracte signd                       pt
Vidile,i dalwered                                no.
Trag  equip. CllJeontrcts signed                 apt
Traig ep p. pkga delavered                       no.
Prsiting equip. ICcoitraetp  ne                  apt
Video eqaip. ICvered   ce sigedr
Vido  qip. deAvre                                no.
lab equp. lcllcnrat es*i_ne                      rpt                                            
lab eqip. pkg* dallverd                          to.                                                                                   a 
Fpihinge--contacts signd                                                                                                                   rppt
Inniure deii,erod                               no.                                                          



ueanBLU 8oet smE. nwT
WAX lloitornia Iniaentor.
Anrotechaical Ixtenmion Centers
BAR    1993     1993    1994      1994    1995     1995    19m      1996
Project input iadicatore                            Uit       Target Plannd  Actual Plamed  Actual Planned  Actual Planed  Actul
3uainEnd TrainIne
Tning puma cawlet*d                                 sptldate
N.s: dr   erolled                                   so.
He.f  d:88e  empleted                              no.
.S8c. dope. snolled                                 no.
U.S. degree cempleted                               n0.
Poet-adte ca mleted                                  o.
Kxteimie diplom  enllged         .no.                                                                                                                0
Itxtenan  dlplomu completed                         no.
A4tic. ollegolld                                    no.
Agte. college empleted                             an.
CAMt enrolle                                        no.
CAS  emplated                                      so.
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



0m
lAatrteebucl Ixteasio  ca"nta
SA     3993    1993   1994  1994   1995    3995   3195    1299
Project                                                    Targt Licatog  Ult*  Stgt Plased  Actmal Plead  Actal Planned  Actual Pla_nd  Actual
ItuiCIIJI tlatsg ealpted                           .
raelaN Adaptive e. complet .ed
TecholAdM. training complted                        .
Tab.lht. ttaimis comleted 
Labeeet.q traltn _1 cmpleted
Cop ter ftrann  .Ampted                      -w.
Vdotratafte  comleted                          lo.
Kxeoi"a  shart eage Completed                     s..
_-~.. s_  __4&
Entm"." etady tek  a2. 4dte
ftteoi bub.   tome                                "o.ldete
ernerm  Asseos.tudy test                          a.dt
2othr Pt lstinnt
ft study esutleetd                                 pt
NatAete rA sume                                   date
Pulot proJeet. en"aw                              s..
eatnet res. (ith IPA&SI/U                         aa.ltpp
Cautreet ttahiin  usa.                            a.. type
I.g



laetr Wltorla. lnducatore
Apreotechiteol Exstense,ou Contorn
IRa   1993    1993   1994    1994    199         399    1996    1996
system porfocman     lcadetoe unit                 Unit     taget Pland  Actual Planned  Actual Plannd   Actual Planed  Actual
hl.astiv tbee*care
On-lam  M  trialeyT. (TIC)                         notp
On-ftm CM1 t:ialelyt. (CATSC)                      no.typ.
pg"Si A^ctivitie
On-f.m dmostretme                                    .
Isstur field daes
vauet Mraining eres 
Tamer *tudy groups sstebfhdlyr.                      .Ityp. 
BOll amples ptocesed  bT)                         ao.
Uoiero-utrlant  ample. ("TO)                        e..
Plant dlsepstie lab ample.                         no.
Fertilizer s*mples (PATIC)                        De.
l.stlelde ample. (PATIC)                           no.
fadWMm tiet   Aide
PebItetiost sbulletin.  leaflets                  no. cuplee
Publlcqtlens  ftet sheets                          oa./copies
TrwaLg videos produced                             No./mlautes
to-lervice Tralalne Curmses
CeurseJsledhope                      .o./le.gthltypu
Pattic. days of traiaialyr.                       no.
othr 8ste s UtUts
now IAs establisbdlyr.                             no.Itpe
N progems eet, to.oaras



ACRlcUL!RA  SUfOT  SUESc ?IJCT
1to UIiiteclnstndieatpre
AiCotechol oteneten Coeotee
"a1   1993    1993   1994        1994   t995      199S   399      I99t
Ptodtmctl licatere                                 Unit     Targot Planned  Actal Pleaned  Actual PlFaned  ActuaL IPland  Actal
moet yi.l'                                         ts
Mhet pweutS                                        tome
vain yie 
net"                                               to"
glee                                               ten.
Olisee yild                                        tis                                                                                          I
Olseede peduetlen                                 tone
Cotte  yield                                       tibs
Cotten proedctin                                   to"
Supa yield                                        tiu                                                                                             :
|Suga ptodttiia                                    tee



pIOjet iaew Indicators                           Uit       ? Target Planned  Actual Planed  Actual Pland  Actusl hued  Actual
rgauisatiem   *tft planu                         pt
Opera:efue manUa                                 I?
OeueguUete                                       p
fa,"iLtie completed                              m.dt
woice    _eiotna                             w4Ft                                                                                 . I
taMales lC61otvoen aigmed                        opt
WebGIS. delivered                                nio.
lab. equip. lClloettaet  sis1                     Mpt.
Lab. equip deliver                              mn. pek
feed praceselg *"it-.liC                        &pt.
seed promsins euip. deli"eed                     me. a".
Shert-e.re ezteu e
Deed testing eall                                  e.\
Seed teetlg cempleted                            no.
Seed pressing enrolled                           no.
Seed proaleaeig  omplted                         so.
*eed v    uctia entoUIbed                        us .
S"d preeltia  eampleted                          MD.
Seed supply entale .d AD
Beed supply completed                            w.                                                             -(w



grs
1A   89 3    199    1994    1994   1"5    sIs 19"
lPoject espat iaiate.                            atin   Tgast Flemed  Actual Pleaed  Aetuel Pleased  Acuat Pleasd  Actl
bLeisl dloam  eaqiletd                           mield
3.Ue. degree eDwelled                            me:
3.3..   " eated              as.
.see. mtwpl   me awl                             M
*wh_ _sepi    o. O"so                             o
3.. sp. sea,,.U.d
3.3.. dnatal seqise                              as.i
golity complted                                  a..to
3. 3. er.U.                                  as
tA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Seed ear en.le cmpued.                           *O*ltd 
qele  ..er  e.rlld                                 .
Qilt   sdt _. _apee                              as.
good lpredausa  tolled                          "ao.
QUlateaeSs man.S a. *le
Se       11ed pretag comted                      so.
eA8oeo eraialag nrolled                          s0.
gA  trtta     mpleted                        'as.



cff
Iny fiMftor_R Indicator.
1993           1994             1995            1996
Oatput Indicators                   unit     ptesent   Planned Actul Planed Actua  Pla-ed Actual Planed Actual
pregroleat I_ndleatore
seed eatexprice mt. entolUd       no.
quty contro enrolled              no.
Seed poceseln  enroled            no.
whet                              tos
lies                             tone
Cor                               tons
Ollse.d.                          tons
Cotton                           tons
Sed  roduced by See Co.
_                                    OD tons
Ruce                             tons
corn                             tOns
Oilseeds                          tons
Cotton                            tons
Seed Sameiee -Tested
ibeat                             no./kg
Rui.ee                            no.1kg
Con                               o.1kg
OLLe"Sed                          no./kg
Cotton                            no:Ikg
sefil  (technical &      )
county                            go.
ToWnhip                           no.
Village                          no.



AaRICULTURAL SUPPOR' suRIvcis PROJECT
TeY ionitorint Indicators
Livestock and Quarantine Components
Project input indicators               Unit      taet  YLanncPae a                  ctua Planneal'ucruaj
Preurolect IdAicators
Extension - Tra1ning courses           no. type
Diag. labs - Samples tested             no. Itype
- lane tvsits               no. Itype
aLty control  Feed samples             no. ltype
rroducion - PIgs marketed              no.
Poultry marketed          no.
Rminants marketed         no.
organization DuiusN                     report
Organization and staff plan             report
Operations manmal                       report
ReorganiLation completed                reportidate
Civll Works
Contract signed                        data
Constructlon                           sq. a
Facilities completed                   no. /dte
Vebleles ICalcontraets signed              rt
Vebleles dellee                        no.Mrate 
Lab. equlp. prow. ICBcntacts signed d te rt
iLab. eupprow. delle                   no.ld-to
date/report
rlning equip prov. ICB delivered       date/report
oequlp. pro. ICa
cotentracts psovn  delivered           no. darm
xatl e    QC                           date/report
National & qe cainter equip.no. /date
delivered                             O  dt
BslnlAN" eqtlp.
NaCB/c rBtet  8_gne                  date/report
Rati0nal hEYS equlp. delivered         no. /date
Fustsmne cttacsi*gned             report
Furnishings delivered                  no. date
Xducatio- -ad Tralina
Traing baxu oa enrolle                 no.d/date
Trs4"4ng  _  oDpleted        rportidtetef 
In-service Education                                                                                                                I!
Postgraduate degree courses enrolled    no. date
Postgraduate degree courses completed   no. /date



Livestock and Ouarantine Components (cont'd)
SAR           9319                             9519
Project input indicators               Unlt      target  piannec   tual  Eliaoneo ACuaJ  rlfleG  ActuaL  Varnea Actual
la-service Train4ina
Livestock extension completed          no. /date
Extension ethodolog complated          no. Idte
Disease investigation completed        no. /date
Cie rstems  *t,empleted                no. /date
husb. completed                      no. date
Peed quality control completed         no./Idste
Vet. jpberm. quality control
completed                            no. date
Peed mill QC staff trasnina completed   no. tste
Vet. drug QO treinin      eted         no. Idat
Audio-visual training completed        no. tdate
CASh trai ting cmApleted mo. tdate
St   hboursD technical complete       Dno.  at
PA study tour completed                no. Iate
Technicral attaciments completed       no. Idate
Potgralduate trainingS enrolled        no. Idate
Postgrad  te training completed        no. Idate
Adentive Research
On-fam. tria"ls   r              n4:o./t p
Integrated cropk,a.vestock produtio    no. A
On-fare dem trati                      no:. type
lawor trainin   ouses                  no typ
lamer field days                       no.Ltype
lazmr study group                      So.type
no.-tye
Samples referred to other labs         no. type
la*m visits made                       no. typ
1l.1t disease investigatios made       no. type
Otber Indlcatoss
NAW  lab diagnoses wad                 no.
ved sample rejections                  no.
NWl Vet. Lob daguosne and referrals  typelreport
Livestock Production Indicator
EA?QS anldallplant rejections -
quarter Y       mrai                 nocause
Livestocklpoultry MOlti     der        tcu
Llvestock     ty disease Incideuce     no. :t
Plg potu 10n/asted                     no.   ce
Poultty productlo mearketd 4no. price
Small ruminant productt  ma_rketed     no. price 
Large ruminant productionlmarketed     no. price 



Cfftu~~~~~~~~~~~~
AOIICILTIUL SUPT SEMIC  PROJICT
o  Vo ori  Iniaorg
livotok  amonent
199M                 1994                  1995                19
output indiator.                     unit    Preget         Plaeneed    Ata       lzd        Ata Planned    Actual   Planned    Actual pew
so"-awmal reection. (pleat)            I
gemi-anumal .oj..tia.. (animia)        I
To" qualty rejected                    2
Veteclmirya lab repolrt feedback     nko.
Veatewiuez  dreg rejection.            I
YbOsley YWAcIfl d0co. Prodced        Oni.
Labortatoy speeiuma procsed           so.
piglet  emorality                      2
,8ct mortlty                           I
Cal mortality                          I
an prodactiom of layers               so.
hpi  per a    arketed                  0 no.
Artificil Inemnstion                    .
n 8cez~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Rev MonitorStn Indicator.
Women In Develokaent
SAR     1993    1993     1994    1994     1995    1995      1996    1996
Unit Target Planed Actual Planned Actual Planned Actual Planned Actual
Atrotechnical iteneion
In-service education     No.
In-service training      No.
International training go.
staff recruitment        No.
Seeds
In-service education     No.
In-service training      No.
International training No.
Staff recruitment        No.
Livestock and Ouarantine
In-service education     No.
In-service training      No.
International tratining   No.                                                                                0
Staff recruitment        No.                                                                                Is'



- 139 -
ANNE 
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
AGRICVIIURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Sunervision Plan
The Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) will support production
of food grains, oil crops, cotton and livestock through improvement of the
agricultural support services which cater to the needs of the farmers--
agricultural extension, applied research, animal production, veterinary
services, regulatory services, and management services. In order to ensure
smooth implementation of the project, the Project Management Office (PMO) has
set up a project supervision, monitoring, and evaluation procedure within the
overall project management system. The PNO will supervise the project
periodically based on the needs of the project. The proposed work plan is as
follows:
Aasic objective of the sunervision work
1.    Overall supervision will review  ey monitoring indicators of major
components in order to assess progre. achieved, sum up experiences, identify
problems and suggest solutions.
2.    Another objective of supervision is to monitor the technical aspects of
project implementation. In accordance with progress of project
implementation, the PMO will assist project units to complete their key
project tasks on schedule.
4.    Supervision is also needed in resolving major problems, and to
facilitate cooperation among the ministries, Bank and project units at all
levels, in order to ensure smooth project implementation.
Kae content of suDervision
5.    When the project becomes effective, the central PMO will, together with
the Bank organize a launch workshop for key project staff covering the areas
of supervision planning, procurement, finance, monitoring, evaluation and
audit, in order to carry out the project implementation smoothly.
6.    During the project implementation period, overall supervision for the
project will be undertaken according to the requirements specified in the
credit agreement, appraisal report, local approved feasibility study report,
and design of the project. The scope of the supervision will include all
project components, and problems identified should be reviewed and analyzed.
7.    When the project implementation reaches about the midway point, it may
be necessary to adjust the project plans and make necessary adjustments based
on the findings of the midterm review.
8.    Requirements for preparing the project completion report, summation of
project experiences, and evaluation of project implementation would be
initiated towards the end of the project completion date.



140 -
Page 2 of 4
Pgggsed method for gsaervision:
9.   The Leading Group of ASSP and the central P1O will be responcible for
project supervision and organizing the PIUs (crops, seeds, livestock,
quarantine), and PMOs at the various levels (provincial,
uunicipal/prefectural, county) to participate in this work. The central PMO
will undertake independent supervision or jointly with the Bank. The
supervision team would invite the staff from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
other relevant organizations concerned to participate in the supervision.
10.  Supervision would generally be carried out twice a year.  Frequency
would be increased or reduced according to the requirements of the project.
11.  Prior to the start of each supervision, the central PMO would prepare
details of the supervision plan--schedule, location, team composition, and
main supervision objectives. The PNOs at all levels would prepare progress
reports and supporting documents covering all aspects of project
Implementation (physical, flnancial, disbursment, procurement, etc,). At the
same time project staff would also complete data and information required for
monitoring and evaluation b-sed on format agreed with the Bank. Each
provincial PMO would consolidate all reports (Chinese and English), relevant
forms, charts, etc., three weeks before the scheduled supervision and submit
them to the central PO.
12.   The supervision work would generally conform to the following
guidelines--briefings by provincial project staff on progress of project,
visit to selected project sites, discussion and resolution of project issues,
farmer interviews, holding seminars, analyzing information/data collected by
the project monitoring and evaluation.
13.   Project issues/major problems should be brought to the attention of the
provincial and central PMOs as early as possible, and the Bank should be
consulted regarding resolution of the issues/major problems. The central PMO
together with the provincial PMO will be responsible for ensuring that
recommended corrective action is taken by the concerned unit. Recommended
actions should be followed up by the next supervision mission.
14.   The supervision teams have the right to review the accounts and
receipts of PROs at all levels, and all project organizations are expected to
give full cooperation and support to the supervision mission.
15.   During the review of progress of project works in six of the project
provinces, key project staff from the other six provinces will be invited to
join in the supervision activities. This would enable the staff to benefit
from the free exchange of Ideas/experiences in project implementation, and
avoid repetition of mistakes in the execution of the project.
16.   On completion of the supervision work, the supervision team will
prepare a full project supervision report. The first part of the report
briefly describes: (a) project's development objectives, and (b) its main
components. This is followed by an implementation summary on the
progress/performance of: physical works, investment, procurement, training and
technical assistance, studies, project management, availability of funds,
audits and accounts, actions previously recommended/agreed, actions taken,
current project status and major problems, and further actlons recommended to



-141-
Page 3 of 4
be taken. The second part of the report would include: detailed account of
project execution supported by tables for key monitoring indicators, training
and technical assistance, and procurement, The supervision reports would be
submitted to MOA. The central PMO would consolidated the provincial reports
and summarize the main findings prior to forwarding it to the Bank.
17. During the project implementation period, it may be necessary to adjust
the average unit cost, percentage of disbursement, procurement plan, and
reallocation of IDA credit. The central PMO would undertake a careful review
before making recommendations to the Bank. For major adjustments the central
PMO should first consult IDA on the action to be taken.
The organization of supervision work:
18. The supervision work will be carried out by project management units at
all levels with the Bank joining the supervision at least once a year.
19. The supervision work will be organized by the PRO, with the active
participation of the PIUs. PIUs will supervise project implementation of
provinces, and in turn the PPMOs will be responsible for lower level
supervision.
20. The PMOs at all levels will make necessary preparation for supervision
according to the guidelines provided by the supervision teams. In addition to
the assessing the items listed in the key monitoring indicators (including
those for the monitoring and evaluation systems), special issues should also
be highlighted. The planning for mid-term review will be organized by the
central PRO.
21. Each PMO would be responsible for advising the lower level PROs
regarding the prepax-ation work needed for supervision. This would provide a
line of communication and enable problems to be solved in a timely manner.
Provincial and municipal PMOs will undertake supervision work within their own
provinces and make frequent. visits to project sites to check on the progress
of the project. Important problems which require consultation with higher
level PMOs should be channeled through each appropriate level, in order to
resolve problems in a timely manner.
22. The supervision work would be carried out by the existing management
system and where necessary draw on the experienced staff of the technical
sectors. This applies also to planning and implementing the monitoring and
evaluation work for the project. Proposed dates, activity, expected skill
requirement and staff input for supervision are shown in the table below.



- 142 -
Page 4 of 4
The schedule for supervision work:
rposed                                   Imacted Skill             Staff boput
Dotes           Activity                  Requlremmt               (staff-meek)
aotyr)
0319      Proset Launch _SrAho           ProureAnt, Financial 
Rewier procureent,            Mangemet. K & I End
ftatcial ianaemet,            Auditing Specialists.
roporting, M & S. Nd
auditing.
10193     Sunervision Mission            Agriculturalist, goonamist       12
Two supervLaton team          Livestock Specalistt
will visit six provinces      Veterinarian,  snageeet/
to revieV crops, livestock    Infomaton and TratitnS
regulatory,  -nstemntl        Specialists.
Information services, *ad
M S E baseline survys.
04194     SUVOU&SiVon MisOn              Ecenomist, lxtenionlApplied      10
Two supervision teams         Research Specalist, Seed
vill visit the other siX       Specialist, Anima1/Plant
provinces to review           Quarantine Specialist.
extension, applied research,
and 3PM program, t seeds
end animlplaant quarantine
services.
11194     Sunervision Mission           Agriculturalist, Livestock        s0
Two supervision teams vwll   SpeLalistIVaterlarian,
revlew progress of six       Management lulormatton
provinces supervlsed In       Specialist, TrainIng
October 1993, special         Specialist.
attention will be given
to livestock, managementl
information services, and
veterinary epidemiology
program.
08195     Sunervsilon Mission           Eonomist, Livestock Spec          8
Two supervision teas         AgroheMicall/Feed Quality
vill sriew progress of        Specialist.
of asrochemicals and feed
quality control labs., and
SPF faoility in relevant
Provinces.
and SPF facility.
05196     Sumeris ion Mission           Economist, Agriculturalist,       15
Review teasm (one each        Livestock Specialist, Seed
for the major cemponents)    Specialist, Anisal/Plant
will be organised to carry   Quaratine Specialist.
out mid-ter review and
agree on changes and follow
up actions.
1997-     Supervision Mission           To be determined according
1999      Based on needs of project    to the needs of project.
but at least oan supervsn.
/year, last mission to
dlscuss PCR with borrower.
Notes Central and provincial PHOWI1PUs will jointly carry out the supervLsions.
here feasible *sme of the IDA and local supervisions may be combined.



- 143 -
Page 1 of 3
CHI
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Commercialized Agricultural Services:
A Pilot Project for Cost Recovery of ATEC Services
1.        There are alternative means of shifting the cost of extension
services to farmers, including (1) direct fee for service, (2) contract
extension, and (3) adding the cost of advisory services to the cost of
purchased inputs. The first alternative is generally impractical for small
farm agriculture, due to size of operations and ability to pay. However, this
approach is beginning to be used in some specialized, large scale, commercial
production enterprises in China. For example, some specialized households are
organizing into farmer associations (i.e. cattle fattening and watermelon
associations) where part or full time technical specialists are being directly
employed to advise on production practices and to solve technical problems.
2.        Contract extension, as discussed in the Working Paper on
Agrotechnical Extension (in project files), appears on the surface to be an
effective means of increasing productivity and production, creating agent
motivation (extension receives 20S of revenue generated from production above
the target, of which 50% goes to the extension personnel) and recovering part
of extension's recurrent costs (i.e. the other 50%). However under closer
examination, contract extension is largely a means of rationing scarce
production inputs (especially high quality pesticides and fertilizer) to those
farmers who agree to an extension contract. As noted in the Working Paper,
many farmers repeat the same contract, year after year without modification,
u8gesting little technology transfer vaiue after the first year. Therefore,
this method of recovering part of extension's operational costs will only be
functional while high quality production inputs are in short supply (note:
quality control of fertilizer and pesticides is being addressed under ASSP).
In addition, a negative aspect of contract extension is that extension
personnel tend to concentrate on the "contract farmers", while largely
ignoring the non-contract farmers (the vast majority). Also, under this
system, contract farmers have limited managerial control over their production
decisions, especially where they agree to a full package contract.
3.        The most common method of cost recovery for specific technical
advisory services in China (and in the private sector elsewhere) is to include
the cost of these services in the purchase price of production inputs (e.g.
fertilizer, agro-chemicals and other inputs sold through TATES).  Therefore,
the cost of technical advisory services to farmers can be recovered either
through a small "mark-up" on the cost of a purchased input (e.g. vaccinations
and artificial insemination services in the case of livestock) or through the
difference between the wholesale and retail price of purchased inputs, in the
case of fertilizer and pesticides. While this method already works reasonably
well in those TATES that are directed by a competent manager, it is less
applicable at the county and higher level of the ATEC system where extension
cannot and should not sell inputs directly to farmers (or only on a very
modest scale).



- 144
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
4.        If the ATEC system were more centrally funded (i.e. if more
operational costs were coming from the provincial or prefectural level), then
these upper levels of the system might be able to command a certain percentage
of the profits generated by expanded commercial activities at the township or
retail level. However, since each level of government provides most of the
recurrent funding for extension operations at each respective level, and since
TATES buy most of their inputs directly from wholesalers, these upper levels
of the ATEC system are effectively excluded from this potential source of
operating funds. Furthermore, since nearly all of the direct, face to fas.;e,
farmer training and extension work gets done at the township and village
levels, it is important that TATES have full access to these operating funds
so they can expand and maintain an effective field extension program.
5.        One serious factor that must be considered, by tieing the cost of
advisory services directly to the sale of production inputs, is the potential
conflict of interest that may be created between the extension message as a
"public good" and the need to increase sales and profits from these commercial
activities. For example, the promotion of pesticides by TATES to increase
extension's profits could be in direct conflict with integrated pest
management (IPM) approaches to plant protection. This conflict of interest
may already be distorting the plant protection measures being recommended to
farmers; the result may be negative environmental and safety consequences, as
well as increased production costs.
6.        Fertilizer is in short supply throughout much of China and, in
general, fertilizer is not blended, packaged, and sold to farmers in
combinations that are appropriate for specific crops or that are based on
adaptive research findings. The provision of correctly formulated compound
fertilizer appears to be one area where CATECs could successfully engage in a
commercial activity, without encountering a serious conflict of interest with
the technology being recommended. Actually, such an activity could be
complementary to extension's message and, at the same time, provide a very
useful service to farmers. In the process, extension could generate a
significant part of their recurrent operating budget from the profits of this
commercial activity. In general, CATECs should not get directly involved in
retailing fertilizer, but should function as a wholesale supplier of compound
fertilizer to the TATES. Such a commercial operation could help both the
CATEC and the TATES generate more operating funds to support expanded adaptive
research and demonstration programs and, at the same time, provide farmers
with a correctly formulated production input that would increase their
productivity and profits.
Pilot Project:
7.        Approximately 26 CATECs will obtain loans from the Agricultural
Bank of China (ABC) to establish or expand fertilizer blending plants and ther.
to operate them as independent commercial activities. These plants will
produce compound fertilizer formulated to meet the requirements of specific
commodities grown in each county, based on-farm research results. The primary
objective of this pilot project will be to generate recurrent funds to
supplement the annual program budget of participating CATECs. The project



- 145 -
A=9
Page 3 of 3
will provide a limited amount of elemental fertilizer, up to a value of $
36,700 or Y 200,000/CATEC, as an incentive to pursue these commercialized
agricultural services (CAS) and to create a revolving fund.
8.        CATECs would be expected to agree that they would (1) largely
wholesale their products through TATES, (2) use the net profit to help fund
their direct operating costs, (3) formulate compound fertilizer and other
inputs based on the needs of specific crops in the different agro-ecological
zones of the county as determined through on-farm adaptive research, (4) keep
the management of this commercial operation separate from on-going adaptive
research and extension activities, and (5) limit the size (not exceeding
10,000 t/year) of the fertilizer mixing operation to avoid direct competition
with the Supply and Marketing Corporation (SMC).
9.        It was agreed that the PNO would contact the Chemical Industry to
obtain the technical and equipment specifications for blending plants or it
will arrange for local TA, through the Chemical Industry, to have appropriate
engineering plans developed. All participating CATECs will be required to
follow these plans and specifications, and to follow national quality control
standards and precedures. In addition, resources will be allocated to the UAS
unit in the reorganized NATEC to undertake an evaluation of thls pilot
project. If successful, then this unit will produce an extension publication
that,will specify all of the essential details and procedures needed to
establish this type of CAS activity in other CATECs.



- 146 -
AN=_ 1Q
Page 1 of 24
AGRICULTURAL SVPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Extension Organization and Management Specialist (EONS)
JLSation: Beijing, but with most time to be spent in the first province to be
reorganized under the project.
Duration:  8 person months, with about 6 person months (pm) being required in
year one (divided between 3 different assignments), and with an additional two
months being scheduled during years two and three of the project for follow-up
work. Note: the local EONS consultant would be needed for 12 pm in year one
to complete this assignment and then the local EOMS should be available for at
least two months during each of the following three years to provide necessary
back-up support in completing the O&M related tasks associated with this
assignment.
Oualifications: The foreign EOMS consultant should have a PhD degree or its
equivalent in agricultural extension or a related field, and have extensive
experience in the organization and management of agricultural extension
systems. The consultant should have at least ten years of experience working
in national or provincial extension organizations, preferably with some
experience in Asia.
Duties: The foreign EOMS, in collaboration with his/her local counterpart,
would be expected to carry out several tasks as part of tilis TA assignment to
assist with the reorganization of the Provincial Agrotechnical Extension
Center (PATEC), Municipal Agrotechnical Extension Centers (MATECs), County
Agrotechnical Extension Centers (CATECs) and Township Agrotechnical Extension
Stations (TATES) in each of the ten participating provinces. These duties
will include: (1) specifying the major functions and tasks to be completed at
each level of the Agrotechnical Extension Center (ATEC) system; (2) finalizing
the organizational structure for each system level, including the formal
linkages that will integrate the functions and activities between the
different levels of the ATEC system, and with the research institutes,
agricultural colleges and/or universities, the CABTS, and with farmers and
their farmer associations; and then to (3) develop detailed job descriptions
for all major categories of professional, technical, and administrative
personnel at each level in the system.
The second major TA task would be to prepare an operations manual for
each level of the ATEC system, from the national to the township level, that
would describe how each operational unit would function and relate to the
other units in the system. These five manuals will outline the basic
operational procedures to be followed at each system level. They will be used
by each extension director and his/her senior management staff as they
initiate operations under the new organizational arrangements. These
organization and management tasks would be completed through three different
missions in year one, separated by about 3-4 months. Two 1 month follow-up
missions are scheduled in years two and three of the project to solve any
problems that may arise in implementing this ATEC system reorganization.



- 147 -
Page 2 of 24
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Research Oreanization and Manageent Snecialist (ROMS)
Location: Beijing, but with most tinre to be spent in the first two provinces
to be reorganized under the project.
Duration: 4 person months (pm) for the foreign ROMS (divided into two
assignments and with about 5 weeks of work in his/her home office). The local
ROMS would be needed for 12 pm during year one and for about two additional
months during the second and third years of the project.
Oualifigations: The foreign consultant should have a PhD degree or its
equivalent in agronomy or a related field, and have extensive experience in
the organization and management of on-farm adaptive research and/or farming
systems rosearch/extension(FSR/E). The foreign consultant should have at
least ten years of experience carrying out this type of research or in
directing this type of on-farm adaptive research program, preferably with some
experience in Asia. The local ROMS should have a similar background, with not
less than an M.Sc. degree in agronomy or a related field and with some
experience in conducting or managing on-farm adaptive research.
Duties: The foreign ROXS will be expected to assist in carrying out the same
basic tasks, as identified in the terms of reference (TOR) for the EOMS, to
help reorganize the ATEC system during year one of the project. During this
assignment, the foreign (and local) ROMS, working with the foreign EOMS and
ATS, and their local counterparts, will initiate the reorganization work in
the first province. The ROMS will be expected to give close attention to the
adaptive research and testing functions of the reorganized ATEC system and
will be responsible for writing the job descriptions for the subject matter
specialist (SES) and other technical positions in the agro-technical and
testing units. Also, the ROMS will be expected to assist the ATS in
identifying the specific adaptive research skills and techniques that the
various categories of SMSs will require to carry out their farming systems
research (FSR) or crop management research (CMR) programs, as well as the
testing procedures that different laboratory specialists/technicians will
require. This assignment is expected to take approximately 8 weeks to
complete.
During the second assignment, five operations manuals will be prepared
for each level of the ATEC system. The ROMS would be expected to prepare a
detailed outline and draft of those sections of the operations manual that
deal with the technical and testing units of the ATEC system. This task will
require another 2 months to complete, including a second trip to China to
conduct workshops on the use of these operations manuals.



- 148 -
Page 3 of 24
AGRICULTUtAL SUPPORT EESRVCES PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Agricultural Trainingf Specialist (ATSI
Location: Beijing. but with most time to be spent in the first province to be
reorganized under the project.
Duration: 3 pm for the foreign ATS (divided into two assignments), and 12 pm
for the local ATS during year one, with an additional 3 pm/year in years two,
three and four of the project.
Oualifications: The foreign consultant should have a PhD degree or its
equivalent in agricultural education or a related field, and have extensive
experience in designing, organizing anC conducting in-service training
programs for agricultural extension and/or adaptive research personnel. The
foreign consultant should be familiar with the basic duties of extension
personnel, including both field and management positions, as well as the
responsibilities of subject matter specialists (SMSs) in adaptive research and
(laboratory) testing positions. The local ATS should have at least an M.Sc.
degree in agricultural and extension education, and, ideally, might be the
(potential) training coordinator for the project related training that would
be conducted at Beijing Agricultural University (BAU).
Duties: The foreign ATS will be expected to work with his/her local ATS
counterpart to carry out two major assignments during the initial phase of
this TA assignment. The first task will be to conduct a "skill gap analysis'
for all major categories of personnel in one provincial ATEC system. The
output of this skill gap analysis or needs assessment would be a list of job
related skills and competencies (i.e. the skill gaps or deficiencies), for
each category of personnel, that would need to be developed or strengthened
through different types of in-service education programs and training courses.
Then, this information would be used by the ATS team in developing an overall
training plan for that model province. This plan would include the total
numbers and type of ATEC staff to be trained from each project unit, plus an
inventory of the different types of training inputs (i.e. degree programs,
short course, etc.) that would be required. Also, a general schedule or
outline would be included to show how these programs or courses should be
sequenced.
Next, the local ATS would work with the PATEC training specialists in
the other nine provinces to carry out similar skill gap analyses in their
systems. Once each province has developed a draft training plan, then the
foreign ATS would return for approximately one month to review these
provincial plans and then to aggregate these plans in the process of
developing an overall training plan for the entire project.



- 149 -
&JU-
Page 4 of 24
aIm
AM2IULTJA  SPOTSERVICdEg MROEC
Tenms Id Refesiren
Xn*tltuti Ia OgEnisAation Sneeial4t"
1.   During Bank appraisal of the Agricultural Support Services Project,
proposals were introduced for the reorganization of the existing central and
provincial animal husbandry civic service system. This reorganization could
impact on the implementatiou of ASSP activities. and could also serve to
complement planned ASSP service activities. The opportunity has therefore
availed Itself to undertake an organizational review to assist the Department
of Animal Husbandry in its efforts to reorganize, and to provide
reorganizational guidance to provincial/municipal Bureaus of Animal Husbandry.
The review would be an external one, undertaken by internationally recruited
specialists with knowledge of the Chinese livestock services system, in
collaboration with a local counterpart with similar expertise.
2     The -Terrn of Reference for the position of Institutional Organization
Specialist apply to both the inter-nationally and locally corsultant:
Locatign: The field study would cover 8 working days each in the provinces of
Henan and Heilongj iang, followed by I working month in Beij ing.
2MX&~tgn: The entire study would take a maximum of 8 weeks; 2 weeks field
travel, 4 weeks in Beijing; and 2 weeks for report writing at home base.
flIifni caf ions:  The candidate would have received post-graduate training and
proven experience in civil service organization, with special emphasis on
personnel management, skills gap evaluation, and the determination of
functional and objectives-oriented task allocation in agricultural
institutions. The candidate would have carried out similar organizational
work in China. Knowledge of agricultural organizations, and specifically of
livestock services infrastructure, would be an asset. The candidate would be
fluent In the spoken and written English; the Chinese counterpart candidate
would also be well versed in spoken and written English and Chinese, and in
translating one language into another.
Duies.: The consultant would develop, based on visits to sub-provincial,
provincial and central animal husbandry infrastructure levels, a model for the
functional reorganization of the system, in line with government objectives
(ie. emphasis on more services and less administration). He/she will
collaborate with the Livestock Services Organization and Management Specialist
in developing and completing the Review. The consultant will specifically:
i.   Review existiny baseline inoUzmation prepared by the study
provinces and the central government,



- 150 -
A 0
Page 5 of 24
{i. Evaluate the human resource base at all administrative levels in
terms of: existing (present situation) and required (post-
reorganization) resources, including work unit objectives; number
of staff; staff qualifications; administrative and field programs,
iLL. Determine existing and required lines of communication between the
administrative levels to promote the effectiveaess of service
delivery and made recommendations for further improvement,
iv. Evaluate the major nhynical resources at hand at each level, and
those required under reorganization, in terms of: major office and
communications equipment, administrative and service support and
make recommendations for further improvement,
V.   Evaluate the functional infrastructure required under
reorganization, in line with promulgated service improvement at
all levels, such as the potential for cost recovery for livestock
services,
vi    Prepare a new organizational model with outlines of job
descri1ti2n1 based on the four main infrastructure groups:
administration, animal production, animal health, and support
services.



- 151 -
AM1
Page 6 of 24
CHIN
AIRICULTUrAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Terms of Roference
Livestock Organization And Management Snecialist
ntroduction.
1.     During Bank appraisal of the Agricultural Support Services Project,
proposals were introduced for the reorganization of the existing central and
provincial animal husbandry civic service system. This reorganization could
impact on the implementation of ASSP activities, and could also serve to
complement planned ASSP service activities. The opportunity therefore has
availed itself to undertake an organizational review to assist the Department
of Animal Husbandry in its efforts to reorganize, and to provide
reorganizational guidance to provincial/municipal Bureaus of Animal Husbandry.
The review would be an external one, undertaken by internationally recruited
specialists with knowledge of the Chinese livestock services system, in
collaboration with a counterpart consultant with similar expertise.
2.    The Terms of Reference for the position of Institutional Organization
Specialist apply to both the internationally and locally recruited consultant:
Locatin: The review study would cover 16 working days in the provinces of
Henan and Heiloagjiang, and 1 working month in Beijing.
Durati n: The entire study would take a maximum of 8 weeks; 2 weeks field
travel, 4 weeks in Beijing; and 2 weeks for report writing at home base.
Oualifications:  The foreign consultant should have a post graduate degree in
animal science, and have extensive experience in all aspects of livestock
organization and management. The consultant should have at least ten years of
experience working in national or provincial livestock service system,
preferably with some experience in Asia. The candidate would be fluent in the
spoken and written English; the Chinese counterpart candidate would also be
well versed in spoken and written English and Chinese, and in translating one
language into another.
Taiks: The consultant will, together with his/her Chinese counterpart,
i.    Review with Institutional Organization Specialist the exixting
base line information prepared by the provinces and central
government,
ii.   Identify the existing livestock services infrastructure at all
provincial levels and at the central government level, including
existing Divisions, Departments and Offices, and livestock
services programs for administrative, animal production and animal
health, and support services,



- 152 -
AMEXC 10
Page 7 of 24
iii.  Determine, together with the Institutional Organization
Specialists, the functional  sts and lob a1ifleations
necessary to activate a reorganized livestock services
infrastructure at all levels,
iv.   Develop, in line with government objectives toward a more service-
responsive system, proposals for a xrgaLzaLd .n stractare
under which animal production, animal health, administration and
support services are represented in an *Xriat {&La.balance,
v.    Assist the Institutional Organization Specialists in preparing
outlines for the ,Mooed new job fntions and lob descrtntions,
vi.   Prepare a review LXart within the allotted time, outlining
proposals for the reorganization if the animal husbandry services
system.



- 153 -                         ANEEX 10
Page 8 of 24
CHIN
AGRICULTUIAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Agricultural Communications Sgecialist (ACS)
Locatio: Beijing, but some time would be spent in the participating provinces
conducting training courses and follow-up workshops.
Durati  : The consultant would be needed for two pm in year two of the project
(after the video equipment has been installed), and for one pm in year three,
approximately one year after the initial training course. A local video
specialist would work with the consultant in carrying out the different
workshops in two or three selected locations throughout the country.
Oualifications: The consultant should have at least a Masters degree or its
equivalent in agricultural communications, and have extensive and up-to-date
experience in producing "educational" videos for use in agricultural training
courses and/or distance education. The consultant would be assisted by a
local video specialist, possibly someone from the Agricultural Film Studio or
the Central Agricultural Broadcast and Television School (CABTS).
Duties: The ACS would be expected to carry out two major activities under this
assignment. First, the ACS would conduct three, intensive two week workshops
for the 15 video production teams that -ill be establish under this project.
This training would not occur until after all of the necessary video equipment
has arrived and been installed. Each training course would involve five teams
or 15 people/course to give maximum opportunity for "hands on" instruction.
It is assumed that all of the electronic technicians hired for these video
teams will already be knowledgeable about and skilled in the use of video
production equipment, including editing procedures. The goal of this training
input is to concentrate on developing educational videos for use in extension
staff development programs.
One year following the initial training course, the ACS would return to
conduct three, one-week workshops with each group of video production teams.
During these workshops, each team would present 3 or 4 of their best videos
for peer review by their colleagues. The ACS would participate in this review
process, making specific suggestions as to how each of the videos could be
improved. In addition, advanced video production skills would be taught.



- 154 -
a=1
Page 9 of 24
CIA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Senior Advisor
Location and Duration
Beijing with occasional field travel; 18 months over 6 years (year
1: 2 months beginning of year, 1 month end of year; year 2: 1 month at middle
of year, 2 months at end of year; home office support : 1 month over life of
project; years 3-6: to be scheduled according to project needs). A Senior
Advisory Group (SAG) staffed by advisors (24 pm of local consultants) will
provide support to the Director of the PMO and the Senior Advisor.
Ouslifications and Experience
The Senior Advisor would have a post graduate degree in public
administration or business management or equivalent and at least 10 years
senior experience with project management or management consulting with
knowledge or familiarity of agricultural institutions. Asian experience would
be desirable. Knowledge and experience with management information systems
and computer hardware and software would also be desirable.
ResRonsibilities
The Senior Advisor would be a member of a Senior Advisory Group that
would report to the Director of the central PMO. The Group would provide
broad policy advice, assist with implementation problems of the Agricultural
Support Services Project (ASSP), provide advice for the design of necessary
internal systems, and provide guidance in the management aspects of the ASSP.
As part of his initial duties, the Senior Advisor would provide assistance in
the design and installation of the project monitoring system. Specifically,
the Senior Advisor would have the following responsibilities:
1.  Assist in the preparation and installation of the
project monitoring system.
2.  Assist the PMO in project implementation and the
solving of implementation problems.
3.  Provide guidance in solving technical assistance
program problems.
4.  Assist the design and training teams in implementing
their programs and preparing necessary program
modifications.
5.  Conduct training courses and workshops for the PMO,
the PIU's and the provincial organizations in project
management, problem solving and in other areas as the
needs become apparent.



- 155 -
AMM-z:10
Page 10 of 24
6. Provide guidance in organizing and managing teams of
local consultants that ar employed by the ASSP.
7. Organlize and assist In the management of the project
supervision requirements of the Bank.
8.  Assist in organizing and establishing a project
preparation organization for the MOA.



- 156 -
A= 1
Page 11 of 24
CHXNA
AGRIMULTURLM SUPPORT SERVIESs PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Prolect Manafement SDecialist (PHS)
Locatign ad DuAtion
Beijing with occasional field visits; 2 months year 1. Local
consultants will assist the PMS; 4 months year 1, 1 month year 2.
Cualifications and Experience
The PMS would have a post-graduate degree in Information
Systems/Decision Sciences, or Business Administration or Agricultural
Economics (supplemented with information systems training) and at least 10
years experience in project preparation, or project implementation and
management. The PMS would be experienced in planning project implementation
priorities and in project monitoring and related project management systems.
The PMS would be knowledgeable in the use of computer and quantitative
techniques in project monitoring and management systems.
&2&nRLnlblities
The PMS would assist the P10 in the design of the project monitoring
system. Two local Chinese consultants would join the team, assist in the
initial design, and in training and systems installation. Additional follow-
up assistance that becomes necessary will be carried out by the Chinese
consultants.  The team would undertake the following initial assignment:
1.   Review the ASSP and related monitoring requirements
for both headquarters and field.
2.   Draw up implementation schedules for the project. The
schedules would detail the monitoring system
components and sub-components and then breakdown the
activities required for each with a timetable for
implementation. Provincial officials would also
participate in this exercise.
3.   Design and test a prototype of the computer based
monitoring system.
The PM$ would then complete his assignment and the Senior Advisory
Group, PM0, and local consultants would take responsibility for the following:
4.   Conduct training classes for ASSP project
participants, both headquarters and field.
S.   Install the project monitoring system.
6.   Provldo follow-up assistance as necessary.



- 157 -
AMNE  10
Page 12 of 24
AGRICULTURL SUPPORT SERVICES PRJ ECT
Terms of 4eference
Senior Agricultural Information Svstems Siecialist
Location and Duration
Five and one-half person months (pm) on-site in Beijing spread over
12 months (trip one, 3 pm; trip two, 2.5 pm). Trips should be scheduled for
months 3 and 18 after project commencement. A local consultant will be needed
to provide assistance for approximately five pm.
Oualifications and Exoerience
A post-graduate degree or equivalent in agricultural economics, with
an emphasis in computer systems, and at least 10 years of experience in
designing agricultural information systems used by ministries of agriculture.
The specialist should be able to design computing systems, including local
area networks (LANs), and have significant experience in training systems
managers/analysts who are involved in agricultural information systems
planning and execution. The specialist should also have experience and
knowledge in working with mini-computers similar to the systems currently
operated by the Information Center. It would be desirable if the specialist
would have similar experience in other Asian ministries of agriculture.
Resnonsibilities
The agricultural information systems specialist would be responsible
for assisting ASS?, and the participating departments and units (DOA, DAH,
NAPQS, and the Information Center), in strengthening computing services to
support the data processing and information management needs of the MOA.
Responsibilities would include:
(1) Assist in developing functional and technical specifications
for new hardware and software to be procured under this project. Much of this
work will be in designing the local area networks (LAN) for installation in
the new NATESC and AHVSC building, and in designing the systems for the NAPQS
and for the PNO for ASSP. These functional and technical specifications will
describe what each system will be designed to do (its functions) and the
technical, training, and maintenance requirements that vendors will be
expected to address in biding on the computer hardware and software systems
for each department or unit. This specification and review process will take
1.5 pm of foreign and 2 pm of local technical assistance to complete.
(2) Once the new NATESC and AHVSC building has been constructed and
wired for telephone and LANs, and the computer hardware has been procured and
installed, the agricultural information specialist would return for une and
one-half months to help train the computer support managers in operating the
new systems. This would be a period of trouble shooting and getting these new
systems operating smoothly. This second assignment would require 1.5 pm of
foreign and 2 pm of local tecbnical assistance.



- 158 -
Page 13 of 24
AGRIULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Plant Ouarantine Rejulator= Seciallist
1IntroSton,. The National Animal and Plant Quarantine Service (WY) has
redrafted its 1955 Quarantine Laws, and the new draft has become effective on
April, 1992. The Quarantine component has a specific objective to assist the
National Animal and Plant Quarantine Service (NAPQS) to modernize its
regulatory and technical operations and to bring these in closer harmony with
internationally accepted norms. China is not a signatory of many of the
international agencies governing international regulatory protocols, although
it has signed bilateral quarantine agreements with nearly 60 countries. The
terms of reference for consultants are as follows:-
Location: Beijing NAPQS headquarters with possible day trips to nearly NAPQS
stations.
Duratio:  One person-month each, for local and internationally recruited
consultant.
Oualifications: The foreign consultant shall have a veterinary degree with
post-graduate training in epidemiology, disease investigation, or a related
science. The local consultant shall have training of similar and equivalent
training. Each consultant shall have at least 10 years of proven experience
in senior positions in a national quarantine service, and shall be thoroughly
familiar with the legal, technical and managerial aspects of quarantine. Both
consultants shall be fluent in spoken and written English.
Duties: The consultants shall:
Collaborate closely in their work and report directly to the
Director, or his appointed proxy, in all matters pertaining to their work.
They will prepare a report on their findings, to be approved by the NAPQS
Project Management Office, and by the Bank.Review the main pre- and post-April
1992 quarantine laws pertaining to plant quarantine to gain an understanding
of any changes made. The review should cover primarily technical, but also
those legal aspects not consistent with internationally accepted quarantine
law.  Make recommendations for the amendment of those technical and legal
regulations not consistent with international norms, and draft appropriate
amendments for consideration and follow-up by NAPQS. Deliver, at the end of
the assignment, a workshop for senior NAPQS personnel to present the review
findings and to discuss amendments.Prepare, in China, a brief but concise
report summarizing findings and recommendations. The NAPQS shall. provide the
necessary office facilities, office staff and translators, and WL11 provide
ground transportation during the course of the assignment.



- 159 -
AEX10
Page 14 of 24
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT S!RVICES PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Animal Ouarantine Regula;orv SRecialist
gJo tign, The National Animal and Plant Quarantine Service (NAPQS) has
redrafted its 1955 Quarantine Laws, and the new draft has become effective on
April, 1992. The Quarantine component has a specific objective to assist the
NAPQS to modernize its regulatory and technical operations and to bring these
in closer harmony with internationally accepted norms. China is not a
signatory of many of the international agencies governing international
regulatory protocols, although it has signed bilateral quarantine agreements
with nearly 60 countries. The terms of reference for consultants are as
follows:-
Locatio: Beijing NAPQS headquarters with possible day trips to nearly NAPQS
stations.
Duratio : One person-month each, for local and internationally recruited
consultant.
OutalifigatLgns:  The foreign consultant shall have a veterinary degree with
post-graduate training in epidemiology, disease investigation, or a related
science. The local consultant shall have training of similar and equivalent
training. Each consultant shall have at least 10 years of proven experience
in senior positions in a national quarantine service, and shall be thoroughly
familiar with the legal, technical and managerial aspects of quarantine. Both
consultants shall be fluent in spoken and written English.
Duties: The consultants shall:
Collaborate closely in their work and report directly to the
Director, or his appointed proxy, in all matters pertaining to their work.
They will prepare a report on their findings, to be approved by the NAPQS
Project Management Office, and by the Bank. Review the main pre- and post-
April 1992 quarantine laws pertaining to animal quarantine to gain an
understanding of any changes made. The review should cover primarily
technical, but also those legal aspects not consistent with internationally
accepted quarantine law. Make recommendations for the amendment oZ those
technical and legal regulations not consistent with international norms, and
draft appropriate amendments for consideration and follow-up by NAPQS.
Deliver, at the end of the assignment, a workshop for senior NAPQS personnel
to present the review findings and to discuss amendments. Prepare, in China,
a brief but concise report summarizing findings and recommendations. The
NAPQS shall provide the necessary office facilities, office staff and
translators, and will provide ground transportation during the course of the
assignment.



- 160 -                       ANNEX 10
Page 15 of 24
CHINA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Livestock Geneticist,
National Animal and Plant Genetic Resource Center
Bagkground: The Animal and Plant Genetic Resources Center (hereafter called
the Center") is a facility established under the Project for the collection,
preservation and dissemination of indigenous plant and animal germ plasm. The
Center, which is under the technical administration of the Chinese Academy of
Agricultural Sciences' Livestock Research Institute, is also responsible for
developing national breed improvement strategies and breed improvement
monitoring systems. The Center requires an internationally recruited
consultant to assist Center staff in developing its programs and priorities,
and to assist in the technical aspects of establishing the Center's animal
germ plasm program.
Location: Beijing, with limited local travel.
Duration: One person-month.
Oualifications: The candidate would have a post graduate degree in animal
breeding and at least 10 years of experience, of which at least 5 years at a
senior technical level, in institutionalized livestock breed improvement
programs, in particular related to small and large ruminants, poultry and
pigs. Previous experience in China or Asia would be an asset. Experience in
the management of a similar institution, in research methodology, germ plasm
preservation, and in national breeding program development would be essential.
puties: The consultant shall:
Collaborate closely with Center staff and report directly to its
Director, or his appointed designate, in all matters pertaining to his/her
work. He/she will prepare a report on his/her findings, to be approved by the
Center's Project Management Office, and by the Bank.Review an existing, or
prepare, in collaboration with the Director, a needs assessment plan for the
Center's activities, based on already prepared work plans. Evaluate the
equipment and facilities provided under the project, review work progress to
date, and assist Center staff, where necessary, in setting work priorities
based on a preliminary needs assessment plan. Train laboratory and other
relevant staff in the necessary germ plasm preservation techniques, and
prepare notes on laboratory techniques for future reference. Review all breed
improvement programs under development at the Center and provide input to
rationalize the Center's resources at the maximum in relation to field needs,
research findings, and breed improvement initiatives. The Center will provide
the required office support, translators, and ground transportation.



- 161 -                      AN=  10
Page 16 of 24
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Terms of Referenge
Plant Geneticist
National Animal and Plant Genetic Resource Cnter
haGkrgo.aud: The Animal and Plant Genetic Resources Center (hereafter called
the Center") is a facility established under the Project for the collection,
preservation and dissemination of indigenous plant and animal germ plasm. The
Center, which is under the technical administration of the Chinese Academy of
Agricultural Sciences' Agricultural Research Institute, is also responsible
for developing national breed improvement strategies and breed imrtovement
monitoring systems. The Center requires an internationally recrue.ted
consultant to assist Center staff in developing its programs and priorities,
and to assist in the technical aspects of establishing the Center's plant germ
plasm program.
Location: Beijing, with limited local travel.
Duratio: One person-month.
uliufLatitions:  The candidate would have a post graduate degree in forage
plant breeding and at least 10 years of experience, of which at least 5 years
at a senior technical level, in institutionalized plant improvement programs,
in particular related to small and large ruminants, poultry and pigs.
Previous experience in China or Asia would be an asset. Experience in the
management of a similar institution, in research methodology, germ plasm
preservation, and in national breeding program development would be essential.
Duties: The consultant shall:
Collaborate closely with Center staff and report directly to its
Director, or his appointed designate, in all matters pertaining to his/her
work. He/she will prepare a report on his/her findings, to be approved by the
Center's Project Management Office, and by the Bank. Review an existing, or
prepare, in collaboration with the Director, a needs assessment plan for the
Center's forage plant breeding activities, based on already prepared work
plans.Evaluate the equipment and facilities provided under the Project, review
work progress to date, and assist Center staff, where necessary, in setting
work priorities based on a preliminary needs assessment plan. Train
laboratory and other relevant staff in the necessary forage plant germ plasm
preservation techniques and seed production, testing and breeding programs,
and prepare notes on laboratory techniques for future reference. Review all
forage plant improvement programs under development at the Center and provide
input to rationalize the Center's resources at the maximum in relation to
field needs, research findings, and breed improvement initiatives. The Center
will provide the required office support, translators, and ground
transportation.



- 162 -
Page 17 of 24
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Term. of Reference
EnidemiolojELst
National Veterinary DiaRnostic Reference Laboratory
Background: The National Veterinary Diagnostic Reference Center (hereafter
called the Center) is located at the campus of Beijing Agricultural University
(BAU) in Beijing, and is under the technical administration of the BAU, with
Project administration under the Center's Project Management Office, headed by
the Dean of the BAU Veterinary Faculty. The Center was established through
the Agricultural Support Services Project to provide reference diagnostic
services to the provincial veterinary laboratories, utilizing its own and BAU
resources.  A National Epidemiology Unit (NEU) is attached to the Center to
develop and provide national disease survey and forecasting services; the
consultant would be attached to this Unit.
Location: Beijing, with limited travel to adjacent provinces.
Duration: One person-month.
Oualificatifons: The candidate would hold a degree in veterinary medicine with
a post-graduate degree in the epidemiology of farm animal diseases. He/she
would have at least 10 years experience in the practical application of
disease investigation programs in developing countries. Previous experience
in China or Asia would be a considerable asset. The candidate would be fluent
in spoken and written English.
Duties: The consultant shall:
Assist the NEU staff in developing the training program in disease
investigation scheduled at the national and participating provincial
levels.Introduce disease investigation programs capable of basic
national/regional disease monitoring, forecasting and information feed back.
Establish liaison with other Ministry of Agriculture agencies involved in
livestock disease control or reporting, and identify the necessary linkages
between these units and the NEU.Provide basic training to NEU and provincial
staff in the form of workshops, and identify staff for future overseas
training; familiarize NEU staff with basic disease monitoring methods using
computerized software. Visit one or more provinces developing their own
disease monitoring programs and assist in setting training programs, work
plans, and other relevant matters. Develop a basic manual, using existing,
pre-collected literature and documentation, to support the NEU's operational
programs. The Center would provide the necessary office support, translators
and ground transportation.



- 163 -                       ANNELX I
Page 18 of 24
CHINLA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Laboratory Manasement Specialist
Introduction: This position is common to the following sub-components:
a)  National Veterinary Diagnostic Reference Laboratory;
b)   China National Center for Quality Standards and Technology of
Feeds; and
c)  National Center for Quality Control of Veterinary
Pharmaceutical Bio-products (optional)
Locatin: Beijing.
Duration: One person-month.
Gualifications: The candidate would have a degree in laboratory management
with at least 10 years of experience in the management and development of
laboratory services; personnel management; quality control, and (partially)
self-financed laboratory services. At least 5 years would have been spent
laboratories located in developing countries, preferably in China or Asia.
Duties: The consultant shall:-
Collaborate closely with laboratory staff and report directly to its
Director, or his appointed designate, in all matters pertaining to his/her
work. He/she will prepare a report on his/her findings, to be approved by the
laboratory's Project Management Office, and by the Bank. Evaluate, in
collaboration with the laboratory head, available physical and human
resources, and review/develop the in-service training program consistent with
the Agricultural Support Services Project developed training objectives.
Provide guidance in the development of routine laboratory quality control
programs for all testing protocols.Review personnel duties and devise, with
the laboratory head, work plans to further upgrade laboratory output.
Evaluate how existing/new cost recovery plans for laboratory services can be
developed, including revolving funds to augment operating budgets.



164
ANEX 10
Page 19 of 24
CHIN
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SE CES PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Pharmaceuticals Assay Specialist
Immunologlst
Recombinant DNA Specialist
National Control Center for Veterinary Pharmaceuticals and
Bio-proxduct
Introduction: The above-listed specialists are required for assignments at
the National Control Center for Veterinary Pharmaceuticals (hereafter called
the Center) and Bio-products, located in Beijing.
Locatio: Beijing.
Duratign: Two person-months each.
*3ualifications:  Each of the three consultants would have post-graduate
degrees related to their areas of expertise, with at east 10 years of proven
experience in diagnostic/assay work in a major laboratory setting. Exposure
to, or assistance in, developing the testing protocols in a newly established
laboratory would be an asset. Prior experience in China or Asia would be
useftl but not essential.
Duties: The consultants shall:
Evaluate existing testing/assay protocols and develop additional
testing procedures (related to their specialty) to augment regulatory testing
procedures. Provide bench training to laboratory staff and develop protocol
manuals for the new tests/assays. Provide workshops or "vet lab" training
sessions for laboratory staff from other units, where appropriate. Evaluate
and establish the necessary quality control procedures in their fields of
expertise. Evaluate the physical resources required for new procedures,
including consumables, and required budgets.Evaluate the feasibility of cost-
recovered testing by establishing realistic fees for new testing/assay
procedures. The Center shall be responsible for office support, translators
and ground transportation.



- 165 -
ANX10
Page 20 of 24
CHNA
Terms of Reference
Plant and Animal Dlsease nDafnostic Specialists
National Animal and Plant Ouarantine Service
Introxductin: The National Animal and Plant Quarantine Service (NAPQS), under
the Project, requires diagnostic specialists in plant and animal diseases to
train NAPQS provincial headquarters staff in a variety of new and existing
testing procedures. Training would also cover quarantine management and
laboratory management. The specific areas of expertise which will be required
have not as yet been identified, and will depend to a considerable extent on
the areas of expertise acquired by trainees returned from overseas' training.
LocatLi: Beijing NAPQS headquarters, with limited travel to nearly NAPQS
sub-stations.
DatL   :
1. Plant Ouarantine: 5 person-months total between 1994 and 1998,
of which: 1 p.m. in 199A; 2 p.m. in 1995; 1 p.m. each in 1996
and 1997.
2. AnL.al Ouarantlne: 5 person-months total between 1994 and 1998,
of which: 1 p.m. in 1994; 2 p.m. in 1995; 1 p.m. in 1996; 1
p.m. in 1998.



- 166 -                      ANNEX AQ
Page 21 of 24
CHIM
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Manaaement. Finance, and Accounting Snecialist
Location. Beijing and selected provinces
ration.  2 mn-months
Qalificatios. The specialist shall have extensive experience in the finan-
cial management of commercial seed companise in developing countries. The
specialist will be either a financial director or senior accountant with 15-20
years of experience in the commercial seed trade, a large proportion of this
time in developing countries. Formal accountancy qualifications would be
beneficial but not essential.
Duties. Under the direction of the Director of the National Seed Station, the
specialist would review the procedures that are currently operating in the
seed producing companies included in the project. The specialist would
instruct the financial managers of the seed companies in the methods of cur-
rent financial management. Instruction would also be given in the use of all
the improved technological aids to financial management. In conjunction with
the senior financial managers, the specialist would design the operating sys-
tems for the future of the seed companies.



- 167 -                      AM    10
Page 22 of 24
AGRICULTVRAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECS
Terms of Reference
Oualitv Control Snecialist
Location. Beijing
Duration. 1 man-month
QOalifications. The specialist shall be an experienced seed analyst with at
least 10 years of experience working in developing countries training seed
maalysts and developing seed testing laboratories that are intended to monitor
the quality of seed produced during the development phase of a new seed indus-
try. Academic qualifications in seed technology and/or agronomy would be
beneficial but actual field experience is more important.
Duties. Under the direction of the Director of the National Seed Station, the
specialist shallt review the proposed seed testing facilities that are
included in the project; organize a training course for senior analysts which
vould concentrate on seed laboratory development and subsequent establishment
of quality control systems and the future training of personnels selection of
two candidates for further extensive overseas training; and assist, where
possible, preparation for the new equipment and in the laboratory design.



- 168 -                      AM   lO
Page 23 of 24
AGRICllSlllA  8SUPR  S        PllJzC
Toms  gf lef ernc
Seed Production SMeciallst
Location. leij in
RmaKstica. 1 man-month
hialificatons. The speclast shall have a forml qulification in agronomy
and/or seed technology and should have 15 year. of eperience vith seed pro-
duction of a wide range of crop species In developing countries. Previous
experience in China would be boeficial.
Duties. Under the diroction of the Director of the National Seed Station, the
specialist shalls design and conduct a training course for senior personnel
at the county oeed company level. This course shall contain the basic princi-
ples of seed production but vill concentrate on the commrcial operation of
seed production, i.eo., contracting, purchainSg, transporting, the oconomices of
seed processing and marketing of seed. The csadidates would be expected to
develop a knowledge of the financial management of a seed company in conjunc-
tion with the company accountants and financial usnager.



- 169 -                      ANN-EX 10
Page 24 of 24
CH1I&
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Seed Processina Snacaliest
ocation. Beijing
Durat4in. 1 man-month
Oualifications. The specialist shall be a seed processing engineer with
extensive experience in the design and operation of seed processing
facilities. Basic academic qualifications are desirable but not essential.
Ten-fifteen years of experience in seed processing technology and wide expo-
sure to different crop species, particularly those grown in China. Previous
developing country experience is necessary and training experience in China
would be beneficial.
Duties. Under the direction of the Director of the National Seed Station, the
specialist shall: review the proposed facilities for seed processing that are
included in the projects review the technical specifications of all seed pro-
ceossing machinery being manufactured in China; design and conduct a training
course for the senior seed processing technicians who will be working in the
project. This training course is to include the design of the proposed seed
processing facilities; assist in tender preparation for the construction and
purchase of the new equipments and be prepared for a follow-up visit, if nec-
essary, to assist with problems of installation and operation.



Cuuia
AGRliCULTUAL SlPPORT SE1VICER PRIOJEC
Yield ad inremmtat llet ketun
Per lectero
.   , ........................................................................................... ............ ........................, 
With Project
Without Project              Potential                  Tech. Oev.         Incrsentalt a
Yield  Not lRtum   NI/Day   YTield Net Return  R/Day   Yield met Return wR/Day PotentialTech 0ev.
..........................................................................................................................
Mise                6.1      3,041      10.1      6.5    3,313     11.0      6.8    3,403    11.3       m        362
Msat                3.5      2,311      12.8      4.0    2,723     14.7      4.5    3,140      16.5     412      829
"aize               3.9      1,432       7.2      4.5    1,622      7.9      5.0    1,745      8.3      19       31s
Cotton              0.6      2,787       7.1      0.9    4,340     11.0      1.2    6,062    15.2   1,553   3,275
Soban               1.1      1,166      13.0      1.S    1,713     18.0      1.7    1,985      19.8     547      819
Psmets              1.6      2,130       7.8      2.0    2,919    10.6       2.8    4,670    16.7       789   2,540
Rapeseed            1.0        83?       5.6      1.5    1,166      r.8      2.0    1,359      9.1      329      S22
SW"et Potatoes      3.5        611       5.1      4.5    1,124      8.6      5.6    1,394      10.0     513      783
Sichume
Rnie                6.9      3,592      12.0      7.4    3.790     13.0      7.7    3,912    13.0       198      320
Wheat               2.9      1,294       7.2      3.S    1,617      8.7      3.7    1,717      9.0      323      423
Mizte               3.7      1,S46       7.7     4.5    1,953       9.S      S.0    2,234     10.6      407      688
Cotton              0.7      3,244       8.3      1.0    4.877     12.3      1.2    S,985     15.0   1,633    2,741
Soyb3an             1.7      2.533      28.1      2.0    2,970    31.3       2.2    3.288    32.9       437      755
Pemets              1.8      2,463       9.1      2.3    3,5S3     12.9      2.5    3,928    14.1   1,090    1,465
Rapeseed            1.S      1,728       6.9      1.8    2,068      8.1      2.2    2,601    10.0       340      873
swet Potatoes       3.5        S99       5.0     4.5    1,114       8.6      5.6    1,381      9.9      51S      782
RICe                6.3      2,6S9       8.9     6.7    2,7d7       9.0      7.0    2,892      9.6      128      233 
wheat               2.8      1,345       7.s     3.1    1,534       8.3      3.3    1,638      8.6      189      293
Maftize             3.2        9a5       4.9     3.7    1,133       5.5      4.0    1,241      S.9      148      256
Cotten              0.7      3,282       8.4      1.0    4.925    12.5       1.2    6,038    1S.1   1,643   2,7561
Saybaon             1.2      1,251      13.9      1.S    1,627    17.1       1.7    1,893    18.9       376      642
Peenuts             1.2      1,270       4.7     2.5    3,924    14.3        3.0    4,894    17.5   2,654   3,624
RePeSeed            1.2      1,334       5.3      1.6    1,826      T.2      2.0    2.328      9.0      492      994
Sxeet Potatoes      3.5        599       5.0     4.5    1,114       8.6      5.6    1,381      9.9      S1S      782
Rice                2.0        40S       1.3     3.0    1,125       4.0      4.5    1,985      6.6      720   1,580
Usemt               2.2        787       4.4      3.0    1,296      7.0      4.0    1,998    10.5       509   1,211
Malze               2.1        569       2.8      3.5    1,170      5.7      4.5    1,666      7.9      601    1, 07
Cotten             OS       2,232       5.7     0.8    3,774       9.6      1.2    6,11S    15.3   1,S42   3,883                  oo
Soybemn             1.0      1,163      12.9      1.S    1,928      4.5      2.0    2,712    27.1       76S   1,549                *
Peenuts             1.2      1,321       4.9      1.6    2,135      7.8      2.5    4,095    14.6       814   2,774
Rapeseed            1.0        83?       5.6      1.S    1,166      7.8      1.8    1,068      7.1      329      231                     -
Sweet Potatoes      3.5        688       5.7     4.S    1,124       8.6      5.6    1,394     10.0      436      7Q                 .
Rice                6.0      2,792       9.3     6.6    3,064    10.0        7.0    3,25    10.8       272      458
'Whoet              1.4        196       1.1      1.8      483      2.6      2.2       716     3.8      287      S20
Raite               1.3        268       1.3      2.0      678      3.3      2.5       996     4.7      410      728
Cotton              1.1      5,678      14.6      1.3    6,696    17.0       1.5    7,849    19.6   1,018    2.171
Sbanybm             1.2      1,640      18.2      1.5    2,097    22.1       1.7    2,428    24.3       457      7e8
Pesuts              1.8      2,395       8.9     2.3    3,S02      12.7      2.9    4,659    16.6   1,107   2,264
Rapeseed            0.9        855       3.4      1.3    1,347      S.3      1.S    1,592      6.1      492      737
Sweet Potatoes      3.S        616       S.1     4.5    1,074       8.3      5.6    1,381      9.9      458.    765
Jiasu
Rice                6.2      3,658      12.2      7.0    3,673    12.0       7.4    3,767    12.6        1S      109
heet                3.4      1,63S       9.1     3.8    1,656    10.0        4.3    2,183    11.S       221      548
Maize               5.5      2,835      14.2      5.8    2,865     14.0      6.0    2,939     14.0       30      10t
Cotten              0.9      4,438      11.4      1.2    6,084     1S.4      1.5    7,843    19.6   1,646   3,40S



Soybeun              2.0      3,055      33.9      2.3    3,533    37.2        2.5    3.840    33.4        478      7SS
gapeseed             1.7      1,9"6       7.9      1.9    2,153       8.4      21      2,611      9.3      167      425
sweet fotatoes       3.S        S49      S.       4.S     1,114      8.6      5.6     1,381      9.9      515      182
Beijing
Rice                 6.6      3,317      11.1      7.0    3.671       2.0      7.3     3,S99    12.7       354      482
lmest                4.6      2,699      15.0      5.0    3,029      16.4      5.2     3.1S6     16.6      330      4ST
Nftle                S.2      2,000      10.6      S.S    2,106      10.3      5.7    2,131      10.1      106      131
Cotton               1.0      S,213      13.4      1.3    6,690      16.9      I.S    7.65 ?      9.6   1,4 7    2,644
Soybean              2.3      3.748      41.6      2.6    4,29B    4S.2        2.8    4,622    46.2        SS0      874
3qpaesed             1.8      1,979      13.2      2.4    2,407      16.0      2.6     2,161     16.6      428      112
Sweet Potatoes       3.5        611       5.1      4.5     1,124      8.6      5.6     1,394     10.0      5        7
8lte                 6.7      3997       13.3      7.2    4.416      15.0      7.5    4.579    15.3        419    S2
Ubeat                3.4      1,634       e.M      3.8    1I8m1      10.2      4.0     2.001     10.S      247      367
maite                6.0      2,015      10.1      6.7    2152       10.S      7.0     2,225     10.6      137      210
Cotten               0.7      3.426       8.8      0.9    4.340      11.0      1.2    6.062      15.2      914    2.636
Sobeaus              2.S      3,S46      39.4      2.9    4,110    44.0        3.0     4,304    43.0       632      758
apeseed              1.6      1.494      11.3      2.0     1,840    12.3       2.3     1'790     11.9      U46      96                            
u_et Potatoe        3.S         6t8       5.7      4.S     1,124      8.6      5.      1.394    10.0      436       706
Usonsing
Iice                 6.3      3,114      10.4      7.6    3,10      12.0      7.6    3.817    12.7        636      703
S_et                 2.4      1.02        S.$      2.8     1,32W      ?.2      3.0     1,435      7A       275      383
msIae                5.2      1,?79       8.9    S5.      1I'M9       9.1      5.8     1,934      9.2       91      155
Cotton               0.8      3,67        9.9      1.1    5,540      14.0      1.2    6,025      15.1   1.        2,1SA
sqkIiem              1.2      1,6X4    10.4        1.6    2.32M      24.5      1.6    2,627      26.3     672      913
R"Peses              1.2      1,283       S.1      1.S     1.409      6.3      1.7    I'm50       7.1      326      S6r
tweet "otatoes       3.S        S99       S.0      4.S     1,114      8.6      S.6     1.381     9.9      51S      782
Sw-
tice                 4.S      2,194       7.3      S.0    2.311       8.0      S.S     2,623     1.7       *n      429
Sbeat                1.0          9       0.0      1.S       352      1.9      1.8       S19      2.7      343    s5
Sails                2.3        923       4.6      3.0     1,312      6.4      3.S     1,626      7.7     389      703               i to
S"qb  n              0.8        S48       6.1      1.2       983     10.3      1.4     I'0       1O2.0    43S      SS 655Ob
S_et fotatoes        3.S        599       5.0      4.5     1.114      8.6      S.6     1.381     9.9      515      782                1d1
Rice                 3.3      2,366       7.9      4.2    2,617       9.0      4.5     2,7so     9.2      251      38o
Shiet                2.2        780       4.3      2.S       929      S.0      2.7    1,042      S.S      149      262              lb
mail.                3.2        m         3.9      4.0    1,010       4.9      4.5    I.16m       5.5     238      392
Sw$beaa              1.3      1,137      12.6      17      1.626     17.1      a.0    1.91       t9.7     469      834
ap_oed               0.8        700       2.8      1.2     1.1a       4.S      1.S     1.Sl     s.8      438      air
Sweet Potatoes       3.5        S99       5.0      4.S     1.112      8.6     5.2      1'192     6.5      513      593
..... .......kial _ed ,slaAetlmm aibe see   the project  ies..
Notes Detailed calowletlon asn boe am la tbe project Mate.



UllU
Alflnl13A  swm  savicus paoc
inerentat Prodbtion and Net Incem by doptlen lete
incrnstal it l1t Project                InrmntM  with projet
Aditlon late                           Cutrent Rate              (tax)                  20)                     251X)                 (253)
1          168~~"                  Zs                     33                     45                     s0                     so
Peal.   1 Incme        Ped.   I I|am          Prod.   1I IANcN       Prod.   I Incau        Pro.   a I             Pre.   I   1ncom
(iTn)      flow        (TWO       T00         (Taio       T'        (Iton)      V00        (Ton       TVO          (ion) vt 'O
~~~~~~..T"bMAG,.................................................. ..................................... -------
A. Potent SlEwtln  tedetg
mica          1,379,734    842,359      I4.94    210,5"9      42,W9       2,6    620,m           379.062    689,867    421U180    689,80       421,160
U1eot           597.072    249,137    149.26        72,204    206,975    101,196    268,62       130,112    298,S36    144.569    290,SM       144.69
pll.a           500,643    1S2.469     125,213      3.117    175.sm        53,364    22s,379      ",611     250.422      16,23S   20.422       76,235
SeW Potatoes     11,3S4      43,899     17.63       10,91S     24,974      IS,36S     32,109      19.55      15.677      21,950     3s.67       21,"0
Cotten          126,409    62,061       31,602     163,01S     4,243    228,221       56,"4      29M,427     63,205    326.031      63,20      326.031
apeseed         331,47    363,543       2,872      9",6      11I020    134,240    149.169    1n,54          16S,1U     191.M      t6S,74      tn.m
so$,en          364,522    SO1,051      91,131     125,263    127.6      1t7S,36      164.03S    22s.413    132.261    250,S26    162,261    25OS26
Pemal            137m        29,480      3,428       7.3J7      4,7W9      10,3161     6.,1       13,26       6,6S6      14,740      6,316      14.740
it.ot                     2693."9                  m2,.seo              1,012,900              1,302.6                1,447.T00              1,447,600
ineantal Int_                                                             289,400                51S,600                723S80                 73,580
Adptlen late                           Owmren Sate         ltdneat wIthout Poject            Inwemmt.at with Prolect
(22)                   (2X1                  (117)                  (27)
x             111                      1                      3                      5                     20                     J0
Prod. I  tnem          Prod.   I             Income                  Pro.   a Incom         Pro.  t  Imam          Pred.  t  t
(1io)       1S'        (ien)      iTom       iTen)       T'0         (in        t'000       (Ton       t'000       dim)       P6
~~~~~..Dwo               ............................................... .................................................................. 
RICO           1,663,     1,2,07        1,8         12,302     SO,StS      36.906     24.t9t      6t.5      3M3,7    -2,041    566,147    369,03
umt             921,970    64,10?        9,220       6,4t      27,f69      19,44      46,099      32,446     14,394    12".621     276,591     194,432
oaiae            099,360    363,216      6,94        3,63      Z6,         10,6       44,969      1,61    179,686        7 n2,6    269,614    106,9"
mt Potatoes    117,340       67,766      1,173         618      3,S20       2,033      S,667       3,386     23,46       135S52     3S,202      20,328
Cotten          245,48    3,074,227      2,4ss      10,742      7,365      32,227     12,274      53,711     49,097    214,8S       73.646    322.266
S_ped           469,fS      55,571       4,700 5M56            14,099      16,17      23,496      27,29       3,994    131,74      140,990    167,571
SWAMf           467,368     124,32       4,:64       7,243     14,622      21,730     24,369      36,216     97,478    144.866      46,216    237,29
Feale            19,196      42U,06        192         425        S7       1t,27         940       2,125      3,63        6,S0      5,759      12,52
Total                     4,708,                    47,0                  141,26                 23S,446                941,765              1,412,67
IncreINtalt Ino                                                            964,178               168,357                64,61               11,36,S81
lA*ptlIn ste by diff et asacl
.....................................                      gnrmetat  zwA                     Inreomntal with Project
Present                     Project           Scrlo  I               Scenario 11            Seerle  fi
Prod.                  Pod.   I It            Pr.   U1 iom           Prod.   U inca.e       Prod.   a Inca
(TM)                   (Ton)      Y'Uos      (Tin)      vTeoo        (ion)      T0100       (Ton)      T000
...........--,--.-    -    .................................................................                                               ......
RICe                                ,5098,000                 533,422    331,732     m.071    440,57Z  1,026,631    67,221   t,tf5,OU         790,242            H
Wiet                                 2,979,06                 236,634    120.641     314.781    162,S17    482,930    274,190   S5,12Y    339,001                 .
Raise                                 3,763,000               202,276      64,261    270,348      66,772    430,298    14u8a       520,236    U1S,t99
mat Potatoes                           337,000                 28,494     21,397      37,916      23,143     59,145      3S,S02     70.019      42.278
Cotton                                 161,000                 S,1606    260,446      69,15S     347,t39    112,302    540,816      136,051    68,29
Repeseie                               442,000                 130,119    150,997    172,668    200,S23    259,73?    303,46    306,734    3S9,343
So)an                                  461,000                142,204    197,098      681,404    261,669    279,739    395,391    328,477    467,8
Peuts                                   49,000                  S,315      11,593      7,130      35,39t     10,69       23,241     32,61S      27,492
tietl mta In     wit Project                                            1,154,167              1,537,746              2,38616                2,8S9,676
incremental....... .....n................. with 4.-P-^^*                                          *-*^--     4      --** **-^-*o t  **-*363,576  1,234,637  3,705,509



- 173 -
ANNEX 11
Table 3
A8CULTUMAL SuOT SVICU PUOCT
Liestok Coeneflt
Imrntal ResAts by Pama
...........  ......0....... 0.00  .......  ot _._..._....o.......*^__osv^*
Fura
wfthit       Vf th    Icretatl
Preset  Projet    Pruject  Reducton            Z.
........... I..........                       ..........          .......
Cattte
4ortaltty rate CZ)           20.0        18.6        17.4        C1.2)   -6.451
Meat Offt*ke CZ)             12.0        12.9        14.6         1.7   13.18J
Market Weight (k/h )    330.0           332.1       33.6          3.5     0.99X
filk Yfeld (kg/had)       2,700.0    2,85S.0    3,038.0         203.0     7.16
Mortity rate Cl)             2S.0        23.S        20.3        C3.2) -13.42=
0fftake rate Cl)             58.0         8.9        76.3         7.4    10.74X
Poultry
or-tality rate cX)           25.0        24.0        22.7        C1.3)  -5.4X
Dressed meat per bfrd Ckg)    1.6         1.7         1.7         0.0     0.001
fins por toyer Ckg)          10.0        11.1        11.9         0.8     7.21X
Sheep/ots
Mortalfty rate CX)           20.0        18.6        17.2        C1.4)   -7.531
Offtake rate CX)           .122.0       128.4       134.8         6.4    4.981
Lfveveight (kg)              37.5        38.8        40.1         1.3    3.35X
=..........               . .....        ....  ..     ....._.......



- 174 -
ANNEX 11
Table 4
CHINA
AGRICULTRAL  JP T SIRICES PROJECT
Livestock Compoent
Iniserntal Pr*eJtton wd Not Irnm    by Adoptfon Rate
................................................................................
Incrmtotl
Current        lfthout                With Project
Rate      Project    ceeario I  Scnrio II Scafo III
.....................  ......... ................................. 
1"         II%          n7           432
Adoption rate                  23X          37          4JX          64X          SOX
....................... &...... .................
Deef                           1S            9          1S           31           46
ItLk                           30           11          20           33           S3
Poultry                        33           14          26           43           60
Eggs                           30           17          30           50           64
Pig                            20           20          36           59           73
Sheep/oats                     12            9          16           26           44
Average                      23           13          24           40           S7
Total adoption rote                      37           48           66           80
Project Incremantal                                   11           27           43'
=...............................................................................
Totat Production              Incremental Production C'000 t)
To  rcutoz................    ............................... IslPouc1n'0 t
.               a .
Beef                          230          305          73          164          293
Milk 4L                                     51           6           14           28
Pouttry                        52           n5          20           48           77
Eggs                          428          589         123          312          444
Pig                           717          93M         174          424          576
Sheep,oa?,s           .        44           51           5           13           26
Total                        1S15        2005          403          995         1444
Icome' (mil Yuan)                                    Not Incr ntal I r
. ........... ..............................                             .......................
Beet                                       173         173          424          674
Ri tk                                       13          11           26           51
Pouttry                                     59          51          122          194
lggp                                       152         116          295          420
Pig                                        291         m            568          77
Sheeploats                                  30          24           57          118
Total Incomr   (ofl Yuan)                719         607        1,492        2,230
........ ......................................................................
Sourcs: DetafLed calculato  cam         be fowm  in the Project Files.



Iii      991   f$91        91?      9f1       9)        13       3        90       93   z3             01       01        13Ua,3lS)1
01       01       01        01       01       0U        01       01       0l       01        0l        0.       01        01       UI5)WJ"    11pi
9        9        b   '9             9        9         9        9          9 t9             9         9        9         9           4 1ii@flU
mt   uSs           m,    81*9 Sll?'1            0*      6$0'$   9091       09*1    00'$   JEt   <l*9             99                       ft mJ  pa 
.,- ***..b.* *.****................... .............-.                                                       - .-...   . .    ......  -... ..   .... .. ...... ~..-
m      A@se    ^J           560                dt       _.'    _w~     _8h   9930  A"p.$    na8                    w     ~
**o-*         .*-* O* u*we.****w***..vv---o~                                                       -nn****-w*ww                  ...n.o@*o **~*
mud  wuio  isimaj
WO     SIU     LoW     I IL1DU
* TkW                                - S  -



- 176 -
ANNE 11
Table 6
CN1NA
lawde  Prices fet Prfncipat Preigta uW trIp4
(1992 cet     Pricm)
.............................................................................................................................................
Cotten   Niea  Pseee           lapeed
Wt.   Ceam        tfnrt   Paddy   lb  to u         /     ure    TSP    OF o       f    Perk  Paitty  am"t
Ibt tradaStm nN                               X        X       X       a      X       x        N      1      N      X       X       X       N
1992 P ioes
...........
lUrd Harket PricesVuSt)                 in      I1I   1,420     294    nA    I4        317    150    125    154   2.420   I390   1,950   2,700
Oc"am Frlght:(USt)                      45       22              44     t       8        a      34     34     34     no       so     30      1n
oCfiFM Shaghai Omit)                   220        9   1.35      n0    m        219    m2    184    15         la   2.170  1,8n        1.6I0   2,825
CI1JFB Shahi (Yntt di                1,199      48   7,439   1,363  1,       1.196   1,591  1.00      867  1,025  11,82? 10,021   6,99   15,39
Pert Chargs  Nd
DOestribugors   ain of               133       a      69      1      139    132       us    11S    103    117   109    9           84   1,411
Tratprt-Port to Whoa"a(a ef/            so       50      50      50     so      50      S0      so     50     50      S0      S0      50      so
Hitt to Uh l.aaie  sf         12      12       12      12     12.    12       12     12      12     12      29     2t      29       29
ax Factory Prfic                     1,393      335   6,63   1572  1,069   1,000   1,362  1,180  1.031  1,3  10,5S  9,022   8,07   13,90?
Proceesing Adjus tmr                                            7T                                                    502    a5       n5x     m
Preesig Costs                                            60      so                                                 2n0    140       300     250
Byproductvau                            70 1o     s      60      55     44      44       a       a      0      0
Hiltt gat Value                       1,463     368   6,683   1,105  1,109   1,040   1,362  1.180  1,031  1.203   ,07   5,724   5,740  7r39
Tr rt- Pam to mil h/                     7        7       7       7      7       7        7      r      7      7      1?      17      1r      17
eenceic Fr   ate Price               1,470     341   6,676   1,095  1,102   1,8      1.35   1,173  1,024  1*196  5,062  5707   5,742   7,.32
200 Prices
X-wtd Hewket Peice:sUSS/t) e/          160      105   1,713    2V      230    245      318    16      134    176   2.4r1   1900   1.9fO  1t663
oee Freigh:(us/t)                       52      25       63      51     29      29      29     39      39      o    2a8      so      345     n25
1/10  Sh*ahi (UsnSt)                   212     s8   1,5'4       297    2       216     289    25    1in    215   2a.84  1,85o   1,605   1,7
ciF/POs Shanghai CYwn/: 4/           1,154     434   8,524   1,616  1,097   1,179   1,576  1,118    943  1.112  11,90010,08    8,747  9,7S4
port Cha  ad
oistrbae    '  artn @                129      M4 792          170    124    131      167    126    110   n11   1,09       932      S12    902
Traspert-Pt to whoelsert f/             50      50       S0      50     so      50      5e     50      50     so      so     50      50       50
- itt toih*eetee               12      1 12    12       12     12      12      l2     12     12     12      29    2a        29      29
an Fsterry Price                        964     W9   7,671   1,4       912    91    1.348  1,305  1,1t5  1,364  10,75  9,71   7,856  10,72
Precei  AdIjuamngt                                              71                                                    50s    6n       ns      $5S
Preeaing Costs                                           60      50                                                  2W     140     300      n0
By-productvetue                         70       13      60      55     40      40       0       0      0      0
mitt gate Value                      1,034     32    7,671   1,299    952   1,026   1,3A  1,305  1,115  1,364   5,113  5.156   5,592  5,649
Trenpt- Fer to  itt h/                   r        7       7       r      7       7       7       7      7      7      17    1        17      17
Icenouic    rungte Price             1,041     31S   7,64   1,292    945   1,019   1,341  1.298  1.122  1.357   s.095  S.?n    s,5         5,6p
.............................................. . .............................................................. ..........................
s/ gesd an wwtd S*  C         ity Price  rcu, Auut3  1992, adjusted to 1992  etent prtes.
b/ _ese  an projcted price of penu oll ai cet, assaling that a ten of wtis ted
. Opanu ytel 0.25 ten ofe  lt d  0.45tcn of  ot.
at Reseed assed  to atct 30 pralus an rwt arkt priee oer eWa
d/ Inhing. rate of 15.45 * S31.*
e  Port charge  of Y251t plus 9x dietributer#o 1rin.
Ii Sisttnce from ImtSeIes to pet ie atllictetY 500 h  free the PrOejt ae  to Shang    pert by rail at Y0.025t/b adjusted by 4.0 Cf.
g/ gestuwe frm  14t to Wholeatlers Is Ic         roimuty 50 kg by ree  at 1.OV2t/k   I adjusted by CF of 1.15.
h/ Ofstance free fat to milt is 30  In  average by rad at 1.02Vk, adjusted by CF of 1.15.



- 177 -
AN_ 11
Tabl&  7
AUIWLTURAL 5902  SERVICES POECT
Fam model -  1~  Preve I/
.............................................. .............. ......................................... .................................    
Future-Withot Project            futmproved existing Tech.S/         Futur..Teduwlogical Ow.
..............................................................................................  ...........................................................................................
Other      Total               Other      Tta                 Othe        Tota
Gre ins 31 Crop 4/                barmi     Crops               Grbain      rep
Ae  (mu) 2/                     7.0        1.7        8.7       7.4        2.5        9.9      7.4        2.S         9.9
crop vatue                    93I.S      350.9    1,282.4  1,125.3        52.5   1,678.8  1,258.2       634.0    1,892.2
Byprodwct Vatue                69.5        4.9       74.4      80.7        8.3       89.0    89.4         9.5        98.9
Antml Raising 6/                                    882.0                         2,205.0                         8,820.0
ars    Value (Yuan) 7/      1,001.1      33.8    2,238.   1,207.0        50.9   3,M.8  1,347.6          643.6   10,811.1
opeating costs v/
.--...  ......
LJnd Preopaatfon               62.5        4.7       67.2      66.9        5.2       72.1    64.4         5.2        69.6
eed                            53.8        5.2       59.0      41.0       10.3       51.3    41.0        10.3        51.3
organic M~re                   79.2       14.5       93.7      65.5       22.0       87.5    65.5        22.0        87.5
ferttlzers                    143.9       22.2       66.1    194.6        46.6      241.2   218.3        51.7       270.0
Pesticides                     27.5       11.0       38.5      25.3       13.        41.5     28.3       13.2        41.5
Itrrfation Veto?               15.0        1.3       16.3      15.4        2.3       17.7    15.4         2.3        17.7
Taxes 8/                       10.6        5.8       16.4      13.7        a.9       22.7    17.8        10.6        28.4
Aniamt Prod. Costs 9/                               762.6                         1,589.7                         ,660.4
Other Costs                    18.7        3.7       22.4      28.4        6.0       34.4     66.2        6.8        33.0
Ttal Costs                    411.2       68.4    1,242.2    453.8       114.5   2,158.1   476.9        122.1     6,259.4
Net Value of Production       589.9      287.4       77.3      5.2       446.4   1,814.7   80.7    S21.5    4,551.7
Famfly Labor
.Crop (p.ronday)             19          25        135       117         37        153      118        3v          156
-Livestock (p.d) 10/                                 1                              46                              183
Return per Person day                                 5.8                             9.1                            13.4
Per Capita Icome I/                                   237                             490                            1230
= . ..................................................................................................
1/ A typical hosehold has 3.? fmilt site. 2.1 wtive labor for  and 453 wokdays ailablo.
/ totat allotated w8  Is3.5 m   for whih 3  u for rice, 3 fr iheat, I m tfrw zae, a   .   s for cotton ni rapss.e,
.7 as forsoyben   Cropping inteity inde  Is 248.
3/ Grains are,rice, whut, maize,   u          nd sset  potato..
4/ Other crop  are cotto.                      i
S/ Area prodLcing malzs, rapese  d       s       t 18      to 1.4 mu w    I a  t       vely.
6/ Pig productiont 2 pigs without project; S pigs an  20 pigs with project respectvly.
7/ Se detailed calsulatiens In project files.
8/ tam tax rof productleou
9/ Includes grin feed other fed, ovehed ad leses.
10/ Labor for plgss I v5pios/dy.
1I/ Based on 3.7 persm  poP fadity.



- 178 -
ANE 11
Table 8
CNIuA
AGRILUL          3   11SIVicas PROJECT
Farm Modet Anayfsi
Incrmmtot  1a1me Vlth Te Project (Yua)
.................... .... ..............................................
Intemontol with Project
Prwinces                         FutUre-lithout ProJect         Isproved-Existinf Trecdtogy          Technoloweal Daveletmnt
................................................................................................................ .............................................. .....................
NV        lVO         PC         MV        R/O          PC           IIV       R/D          PC
Hunmn                            87.3         5.8      237.0      037.4         3.3      253.0      3,674.4         7.6      993.0
Uecjfng                        1,350.8        9.8      436.0   1,090.4          2.2      351.0      7,782.6         6.2   2,510.0
neotongjiang                  3,659.5         6.4       832.0   3,937.1         3.5      89S.0    17,257.1         16.3   3,922.0
Gumnd                           1022.6        5.8      209.0      496.8         1.1      101.0      1,189.3         2.4      242.0
Sichuan                        1,211.9        7.3      328.0      703.9         1.1      190.0      1,478.5         1.9      399.0
lanm                             709.7        3.0      169.0   1,875.4          3.9      447.0      5,619.7         9.2   1,338.0
Nobel                          1,435.4        6.6      359.0   1,357.5          6.2      339.0      5,196.6        12.0   1,299.0
Shaanxi                        1,485.4        5.3      362.3   1,556.3          2.6      379.6      4,739.2         6.5   1,155.9
Fhanghal                       1,291.6        9.8      430.5       538.3        1.5      179.5      2,491.4         1.1      830.5
Lioening                       1,370.6        6.0      370.4   1,838.2          3.0      496.9      4,711.8         6.3   1,273.5
Jiangwu                        1,696.6        8.9      486.7   1,048.7          0.8      2M9.7      2,208.2         2.1      630.9
... ... .__.__ ._.__.......................... .. .._.__._........... . ... ... .... .. .. ... ...... ...... ...... ........... ._.._._.. ._.._................._... ....
Souree:  Ftam moel for each province an be fsa   In project fites.
Motess  lb      ot Value of Product1on
* Retun Per Person Dy
PC  *Pe  Capita Irom



- 179 -
ANNE 11
Table 9
COIA
ACRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Rent ond Cost Recovery
........................... ................... ................. ................... .... 
Scenario I    Scenario It      Scenario IIt
.......... ............................_..........  _..........
('000 Yuan)
At full Oevelopnent
Incremental Income a/                         990,600        2,727,000       3,936,000
Less
Imputed Value, Famfly Labor b/                 393,393          869,961       1,093,752
loputed Valued, Management Services c/           99,060         m,700           393,600
lIsputed Return to Own Capital di               49,530          136,350         196,800
Allowance for Risk/Uncertainty c/                 9,060         2n,700          393,600
Subtotal                                    641,043       1,551,711       2.077,752
Equals:
Project Rent                                   349,5S7       1,175,289       1,858,248
ProJect Charges
-Taxes from Crop Productfon ef                  19,179          61,731          85,275
-Taxes from Lfvestock Productfin f/             36,420          89,520         133,800
Totat Charges                                 SS,599         151,251         219,075
Rent Recovery Index S/                              15.9X           12.9X            11.8X
During ProJect's Life h/
Project Rent                                   863,474       3,551,639       4,995,682
ProJect Charges
ProeT                                          213,7S8         581,S04         842,262
Rent Recovery Index (X) g/                          24.8X           16.4X            16.9X
Project Costs it                                 819,993         819,993         819,993
Cost Recovery Index J/                              26.1X           70.9X           102.73
........... ....................................._.............
S/ Based on incremental Incomes of fmrn faomties In the farm model analysis, before
deducting project charges and debt service.
b/ Based on incremental labor vatued at 803 of market wage.
cl Ten Percent of 1ncremental income.
dV Five percent of incrementat incem.
e1 Based an 5X of net income.
t/ Based on 6X of net Income.
gJ Project charges as a percentage of proJect rent.
h/ Exprmed as present vatues over 20-year project ltfe, discounted at 123.
I/ Total project costs, excludfng recurrent costs whIch will be generated from service fees.
J/ Project charges as a percent of project costs.



- 180 AIRM 11
rab-le rO-
Ulm
AMVAIN%
........... . . . . .... . ..
sot  at=                           "is*          catm                       POW%M                             POUM
UMV W" maw" ItAft                        AVOM %'4iM AUM VSUW AMNM VSIW AMMM V69M ANAM WM Aso" %gue
"Wtlkiarw tw 00
an             4.8           1.4           1.3           1.1          1.2           1.8           4.9           Si
Prf" 11               in                                         06          AIM           I'm          I'M           1.40
Praman voun            v                                  at            qu          61m           2.06                       low           1,610
typpeawn wtim         If                    20             78            '17a                                                   Is             a
TOW    vatow           T                   SAM          I'an            on                                       "A                        14610
tivift
Lw%d Pr%wwf on       ft  IrAm                In      I    In       I     a       1 119         1     9      I m
Seaft-flaft NW44 tt goe                        a  m m              0 a soM                   In  Inm Su                                      va
-Nwmd v          go               20   In                    SO    m        4      a
oname xw#oo    ft"  Taw    6A  132  6A   02  6.6  IU  &6  tU  &A = &A  IS:  6A                                                         IT  %a
??we stwon            we  TS/M                                                                                    30
fani t t ter
to T.W"  An  146  4w   U6  an   U6  3w  In                              a 0M                61  an a   la*  34
WM                    kg IrAAM  In  I"                      7p  looUm Me  IN  ft a10
Peso"                 kg  IJum          0      0            a      0      a      a      aa
kgT             m      n  m          ra  ISOnm n"O0us  39  be  so                                                        a
t      aid"         sw-v                1    U       1     n       a     n       s VA          I    n       a    13%                         in
"fefe"              orw                 Iu    0 so
Irmoacian W~          u                                    30            nIs                                      IS             a
aaw                                                         3T                         anu                                      a             70
smotmi                                                    =6                          mAn                      1.151           00            M
LM             m                         IaLm                                       an            61
Vvd    nom   m so  too  6m  no I:fTG                                           VDm no                      In
lt-      w  xwdw                             V.S          M             1.3          14.6          M2            4.9           3.4           9.1
6.6          1.8           2.0           1.3          1.5           2.3           1.3           44
Prfeo It              T/t                          so            06          60m           I.m          loco                          6"
Poodus  VoLue          T                                I'm           Im            Tm           24            4,4"
wvw."m V"ua            v                                  m              aTs                                      it
fmi V4440              v                  4a"           1,20          I'm           ?Am          I'm           4*SSt         1,06          Zm
SW elfam      so  VAN            I 171        I    m        1     61      1 119        1      0      1 im          I     9       I    "O
Savo-Ndn xvwqd at   90                  a      I   log    70       a      a     W      l1a    60                 40       6           "a   VI
-Nvtw I Zf      V4                a     is                   AS    las      a     a
arvmfe xwwe           tm  U"    6A  I32  6A M   6.6M 6.6  02  6A  IU  6.6  UR  6.6                                                     17  W4
Tram gtewm                                           a      0      a      a      a     aSP                        3P
Fortf line
Afwr-WcwAmWft kg TiQu  m m   40  U6  "O  in  tu  iss 0 a 0 04w   U&  72  as
Ufto                  ko TAft  In  In  144  so  IGO  som m m 0 n "  "a  so  tse  ta
Jo   T.M"        10    13    80    60    111    St   100    75    $0    30    10    3B    SO    3Ba
Phomobsto             kit  MM=    490   In    m            is    30      so   no    73   an         so m          43   no       n      so     n
tmoe"gfda           tprw                1    24      1     so      a     n       I VA         I     n       1     40      1     40      I us
Fwqieidm*           SPW                 1    36      a     so -                                             1     40                           a
temostion W~          LE                     44            30            IS           30      1a                  a              0             a
0~                                            13           43                                       36            26            31
I'm            m             m           ltuia          m           I'm             so            M
Sot     M      10    US M           3,9 6.6"     95 .2.00?   VI3"I               II'an
ald       300                  m             611         1.145mAm                                          tu    Soo
matur" pw Na-dup                                          U             S.;          17.4         ILI           U.?                          ILS
Owel I
Yfetd                                 7.8          U             LS            1.5           I.?          LIP           Ij            SA
Price I/                                           660           06          6,=           I'M          I'M                           440
4.004        I'm           1.740         9.m          XAN           $,SW          1.112
8"r**"n vatue          v                     304           In            33            10                        116            311
&.312        l.m           I'm           V'm           R.W          V.m           20144         Lm
gooo-Um W#Wd V  go                      0 0  "O   la   a 014 a de 0 m do    6                                                         430  VD
Nyin d 31       go               IS    as              .    45    m        I     a
a ftm"    I"                                 6Am   6.6 ta  6.6 132 &A  at" m &Am   U40
9temn                                          .4     0      a      0      a     a
Fwtitiaw
kV  IJAAM    so    170   So         M      An     US   450   113        a      e      a      4 40        US   WC    316
um                    ke TAft    us ma mamMma=6L m96 in"
to  T.                 a      a             a      60   140    73    70    13   Us    75    70            it             a
r =pi                 kg              Soo M        350     U    XM       73   304    08   X=        90   "O    $A       =       SO    WS    32
ift""Oidat          softy               1    36      1     30      a     U       I VA         1     39      1     as      1    -40    I.S    m
ftVWdn              lprw                                    so                                              I"
lemsetion usew        Ls                                   so            Is            311    a     19      0     IS
0~                                            61                         is            isvIt                                    36            70
ewnmi                                      I.w             on           in          Im             so          1,00            m           I'm
mg nocum                                   &W             TT&           9"                        1.4=         4'm           1             1*331
am                                                               m310                         No           VA M
m   "a  we  v$  as 40 I.Sw                                   no  so
Ascum pw No del                             U.9           3.4           4.?          ".6           V.3                                       9.9
keaftt
St Prfom bood m M1~   omp"w of qwn,-                     md n 6- Pp4em ommetted to 0~  to "OL
& pmen per kg 40 jamolvArw ago* 4m ?I." ftp Flow. V.? top Wwa, TIJ ke w4ftemo ".v fw MM04 UJ W ropmooft wd ZU fw pwam.
I/ Priem VW to OF " omft am TSJ fbr PW ow V" ow mix*.



- 181 -
ANNEX 11
Table 11
CNtNA
MRICLTURAL SUPPOlT SERVICES PROJECT
Stundard Converston Factors
Finncial  ECoPWiIc         Unit   ConwsiOf
Comodity                      Pfice I/   Price                   Factor
................ ....................................  _..........
Econroic Prfce  sed on Domtic Costs
....... .............. ........
Labor
Unskitlled                       1.920       1,264 YuanYear       0.66
Semi'skllitd/Technicfan          2,533      3,828  Yuan/Year      1.51
Electricity                            11         55   eN/OWll       5.00
Coal                                   45         99  Yuan/Ton       2.20
Transport
Rail                                 3         10  Fen/ton km     4.00
Road                                20         23  Fenton km      1.15
Economlc Prfce Based on Inteatonfal Prfce  /
~~~~~,,,,,..............................
Petrotla Products
Fuel ofl 3/                        155        4U6   Yudn/ton      3.01
Itrosee                            700       1,195  Yuan/ton      1.71
Oiesel                             660       1.211  Yuan/ton      1.83
Gaoline                            801      1,349  Yuanton        1.68
Stel                                  a70      2,042  Yuan/ton       2.35
Cowent                                 90        340  Yuan/ton       3.78
ifeb1r                                636        634  YuaVton        1.00
forefin Exchange Rate                5.45       5.90  Yuan/USS       1.08
1/ Financal prices for bsic cwl1odities correspond to the lou tier of State
Fixed Prices. Naket price  wre 2 to 3 times 1fgher than that price.
2/ Eclosre  prices ae calculated on the basis of bwdar price converted at
the shadow exchne rate of Y5.9/uss.
3/ Includs spcial tax of Y70/ton for we as fuel.



M aAil1RAL SUP3T IENVCES POC
crep    -*
asuts of Economic A Ysis
........................................ ...........................................................................................................
baia   Cats a  we itO    P1         n               P3         14         P15        PY6       PV7        PI8        P19       P1O        PIlI
.................................... ................................................ _p .............................
................
hi dlies                      66,045    180,093      2,410
Veicles                       1,3        65,22       1,130                                      11,334    45,622      1,1m
EWpmnt                        17,248    102,561      8,911        40                                      17,2A   1t02,S61      8,911         40
fterials                      5I838       2,574                   708
Trainins                      15,346     8,185       1,982        796       44         203      1,982        798        4         203       1,9I2
locftiesl Aistat-lA            S,66       1,128        51U        390       390        390
Loal Cuwultmt                    705        180        1400                  S          100       100        100        100       100         100
6tatl. inwestnt east.   122,181    361,043          15,081      2,456       934        693     13,416    83,768    101,236    9,21S         2,S42.
Recurret costs
............... 
0 E Vehicles                     556      4,430      7,730      7,84S     7,892      7,904      7,904      7,904      7,904    7,9W         7,901
OUN NutIddls                       9        851      2,694      2,719      2,719      2,719     2,719      2,719      2,719     2,719       2,719
0a  Ecpapmnt                     472      4,M        6,731       221       7,27       7.279     7,279      7,279      7,279    7,29         7,279
Local SlarEies                   941      1199       1,249      1,307      1,346      1,346     1,346      1,346      1,346     1,346       1,346
Caenubles                      1,046      8,46       8,628      8,68     2      8,482  8.402    8,682      8.682      8,68      8,682       8,682
S  total Recu t cot            3,0e      19,710    27,001      27V7.      27,918    27.930     27.930    27,930    27,930   27,930         27,930
Physical Cmntig ies           11,143     30,790      2,559      1,433      1,132      1.068     3,308      8.936      0,s53    2,972        2,438 
Total Invest & Roe Costs    136,347   411,S43      44,642      31,663     29,985    29,691    44,653    120,634    142,739    40,116       32,910            co
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,........................................................................................................................ ......._  :.....
Incrmmtdt  _erfits 1/              0    42,170    81,340    126,510    168,680    210,850    253,020   29S,190    337,360  379,530    421,700
net nevRm                   (136,347) (369,373)   39,698    94,847    138,695    181,59   208,367    17i4,SS6    194,621   339,414    388,790
WV                           83,474
to3                            29.071
Redwine Salfit by              53.51
Ibt Adjusted Senffit.       (136,347)  (391,829)   (S,213)   27,480    48,873       68181      73n634     17,367    14,97    137,314      164,2
WV                               143
ER at 121                      12.003
................................................................... ....................... ..,...........................    0|t C.|
Intrremtal Beneits 21             4    12,090    224,180   336,270   48,360    S60,4SO   672,540    784,630   896,7    1,008,810   1,120,900          a 0
Net Revenme                 (136,347) (299,453)   179,S38    304,607   418,375    S30,759   627,887   663,996    753,981  948,694   1,087,990         a-X
WV                         3,551,439 
. 3                              46 O.201S 
...................................................................................................................................................
Imremntal Nef Its 3/              0    149,650    299,300   448,950   S98,600    78,250   897,900  1,047,5SO  1,197,200 1,346,850   1,496,500         t
let Revow                   (136,347) (261,893)  2S4,658   417,287   568,61S    718,559   853,247   926,916  1,054,461 1,306,734   1,463,590
Ely                        4,99S,602
Int                           84.S2
.................... .............................................  ,...  _..................................
otest Detai ed calculatiorn  can be found In Project Fles.
1U met ltsfmntsl benefits at  ear II vould be 1421.7 PA iton, for scamaio 1.
2/ net Insrementl beits at year 11 would be 11,120.9 million, for Senario It.
3/N at incremental beneits at Vear 11 wuld be 11,496.S millIon, for Sc_nrio Ill.



Pn12      n13        PT14       P"IS       P116      PY17       Pyle      P119       PM2
11.334    65,622      1,130
17,248   102561      8,911        460
798       444        203      1.S42       743        427        203       203        203
100       100        100        100       100        100        100       100        100
* -.. --.-.......................,..............                     ...............
696       S44    11,637    67,264        1.973    17.775    102.66S     9.21S        764
7,904     7,904      7,904      7,904     7,904      7,9K       7,904     ?,904      7,904
2,719     2,79      2,719      2,719     2.719      2.719      2,n9      2,719      2,719
7.279     7,279      7.279      7,279     7,279      7.279      7,279     7,279      7.279
1,346     1.346      1,346      1.346     1.346      1.346      1.346     1.346      1.34A
8,682      682        ,682      6,682     8,662      8.662       662      8,682      8,682
....................................................................................................
27.930    27.930    27,930    27,930    27,930    27.930    27.930    27,930         27,930
2,306     2,278      3,16S      7,61S     2,392      3.656    10.464      2,972      2,295
31.134    30,752    42,733    102.09    32,295    49,361   141,256    40,116    30.989
421,700   421.700   421.700   421,700   421,700    421,700   421,700   421,700   421,700                                                         t
390,S66   390,948   318,967   318,691   389,40S   372.339   280,442   381,S84   390,711
166,011    166,393   154.412    94,336   164,850   147.784    5,5806   157,029    166,156
................................................................. .................................................  SF 
1,109,766  1,2090,4    ,071,1672 0 1,0120,90  1,120,900  1,1.90    1.12     1,080,900  1,129.910                                'a
....................................................................................................
1,496,50 1,496,SOD 1,496,500 1.491,500 1,496,500 1,496,SOO 1,496,S00 1,496,SOO 1,496,500
1,466,366  1,466,748  1,453,767  1,393,691 1,46,2    1,447,139  1,3SS,   1,456,34  1,466,511
...................................................................................................



CHINA
AGRI CULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Livestock Coapo_nt
Results of Economic nalysis
.......................................................................................................................
Economic Costs &  wenefits    Pyn        PTZ      PT3     PT4      PTS     PY6     PYT     PYS      PY9     PYIO   PYI1
................................... .................................. _..................
tnrestment Costs
................
Buitdings                     126,S36  135,626    1,137        0       0       0
Vehicles                       18,189   23,267    3.095        0       0       0  18,189  23.267   3,095
EquIpment                      20,803   90,616      S80      178     170     164                  20,803  90,616      580
Training                        6,651   11,766   1O,7D0   6,986   3,384   1,545   1,545   1,54S   1,545   1,545   1,545
Internationat TA                    0    2,004    1,475     289      138      91
Local Conouttant                   42      113      116       74      25      40
Subtotat Investent Costs    17 ,220 263,392   17,101   7,526   3,717   1,840  19,734  24,812  25,443  92,161   2,125
Recurrent Costs
...............
08I Vehicles                      742    2,616    3,519   3,660   3,660   3,660   3,660   3,660   3,660   3,660   3,660
01K luitdinos                       0    1,190    2,442   2,361   2,333   2,333   2,333   2,333   2,333   2,333   2,333
08  EqIpm*ent                     56      993    5,145   5,870   5.W 88 5,889   5,889   5889   5,889   5,889   5,889
Local Salaries                   300       814      855     8S5     850      860     860     860     860      860     860
Chonsuables                       161    2,386    3,391   3,222  3,185   3,146   3,146   3,146   3,146   3,146   3,146
-- - - --- - -- ---------------------- --------------------.......................... -- .#.
Subtotal Recurrent Costs        1,309    7,996   15,352  15,968  15,907  15,88?  15,887  15,887  15.887  15,88?  15,887
Physical Contingencies         12,612   22,153    2.804   1,718   1,086      774   1,S79   l,98S   2.035   7,373      170
Total Invest & Rec. Costs    186,141  293,543   35,257  25,211  20.711  18,501  37,200 42,684 43,366 115,421  18,182
Incremental BenOfits 1/            0   11,000   22,000  32,000 43,000 66,000  87,000 111,000 135,000 158,000 181,000
fet Reouuea                  (186,141)(262,543) (13,257) 6,789  22,289 47,499  49,800 68,316  91.634  42,579 162,818
WV                            195,457
IRR                             1S.8BS
Reducing Benefits by            24.801
Net AdJusted Benofits        (186,141)(285,271) (18,713) (1,147) 11,625  31,131  28,226  40,788 58,154   3,395 117,930
WPV                               494                                                                                             to.
In                              12.01X                                                                                             to
.....................................................................................................................             0  Hff
Incrermental  enef ts 2/           0   27,000  S5,000 80,000 104,000 161,000 214,000 m,000 330,000 388.000 445,000                 '     P
let Revenue                  (186,141)(266,543)  19,743  54,789  83,289 142,499 176,800 230,316 286,634 272,579 426,818
WPV                         1,339,917                                               o t
IRR                            30.68X                                                                                              1b
Incremental Benefits 3/             0   44,000   88,000 127,000 166,000 256,000 341,000 434,000 526,000 618,000 708,000
Net Revenue                  (186.141)(249,543) 52.743 101.789 145.289 237,499 303,800 391,316 482,634 502,579 689,818
NPV                         2,404,479
IRR                            41.17X
...........................



......................................................................................
PY12    P113      PY14       P11s     Pn16        P11?       Py18       PY19      P120
18,189    n,267       3,095
178     170
1,545   1.545     1.545      1,S5S     1,S4S      I.4        1,545     1,545      1,545
......................................................................................
1,72M   1,716    19,734    24,812       4.40       1.545      1,545      1.S4S     1,S4S
3,660   3,660      3,660      3,660     3.660      3,660      3,660      3.660     3,660
2.333   2,333      2,333      2,333     2.333      2,333      2.333      2,333     2,333
,889   S,889       S,889      5,889     5,889      5,889      5.889     5,889      5.889
860     860        860        8         a"         86         860         "        860
3,14    3.146      3,146      3.1U      3.146      3.14       3.146     3.146      3,146
...................................................................................
15,887   15,8?        6       15,88       5 7 Is su   15,,8?    15,887    15,887    15,887
138     137      1,57       1,985       371        124        124       124        124                                                                o
17,748  17,740    37,200    42.684    20,896    17,556    17,556    17,556    17,556                                                                     U
.....................................................................................
206,000 230,000   2S7,000   264,000   311,000   338,000   367,000   395,000   426,000
188.2S2 212,260   219.800   241,316   290,102   320.444   349,44    377.44     408.444
137,144 1SS,220   156,064   170,884   212,974   236,620   258,428   279,484   302,796
..................................................................................... ....................................a 
506,000 566,000   630,000   698,000   763,000   829.000   902,000   971,000 1,045,000                                             N
488,252 548,260   592,800   655,316   742,102   811,444   884,444   953,444 1,027,444                                             0 F' 
,,,,,,,,,,.,,.................................................._._...._................
807,000 901,000 1,003,000 1,111,000 1,21S,000 1,320,000 1,436,000 1,546,000 1,665,000
789,252 883,260   965,800 1,068,316 1,194,102 1,302,444 1,418,$44  1,528.44 1.647,44
.............. ....................................   .............



CHIIU
ACRICULTURAL SUPPOIT SERVICES PRECT
Results of Economic Analysis - Project
.................................................. .................................................................................................. _
Ecomc costs & Bneits   Pm             Pn2       PY3    P14   Pn5         P6        P17      P8        PP        P110      P111
Investmnt Costs
................
Ouildinus                   192.581  315,719   3.547        0       0         0
Vehicles                     29,S23   88,689   4,225        0       0         0    18,189   23,267    3,095
Equipmnt                     38.051  193,17    9,491      638     170       164                       20,803   90,616        580
Materials                     S,838   2,574               708
Trainins                     21,997  20,651   12,682  7,784  3,828    1,748    3,527    2,343    1,989           1,748     3.527
Inteatlonal t                 5,666   3,132    1,989    679    528         481
Local Conultant                 747      293      250    174    125         140       100       100      100       100       100
Si total Inwestmnt Costs   294,402 624,435   32,182  9.982  4,651         2,533   21,816   25,710   25,987   92,464        4,207
Recurrent Costs
...............
Clii Vehicles                 1,348    7,06   11,219  11,505  I,SS2    11,564    11,564    11.5      11,564   11,564    11,564
OL Buildins                      9    2,041    5,136  5,080  S,052    S,e52    5,052    5,052    5,052          5,052    S,052
oUR Eqdpment                    528   5,7S6   11,876  13,091  13.159    13,159    13.159   13,159   13,159   13.159    13,159
Local Salaries                1,241    2,013    2,104  2,162  2,196    2,196    2,196    2,196    2,196    2,196    2,196
Consables                     1,207   10,842   12,019  11,904  11.86     1         11,828    I=11,828   1828    11828    11.828
..................................................... ...................................................................................... ,*..... X**^*-*w
Subtotal Recurrent Costs      4.333   27.707  42.354 43,742  43,825   43.7        43.798   43,79a     43,798   43.798   43,798
lhsical Continoencies        23,755   52,943    S.363  3,151   2,218      1,842    5,053    10,993    12,652    10,369     2,m75
Totat Imest & Rec. Costs   322.490  705,08s   79,899 56,874  SO,69S   48,173    70.668   80,S01    82,437   146.632   50,78 0
Iremental Bnef its 1/             0  S3,170  106,340 158,510 211,680  276,850  340,020  448,360  514,530  579,70   602,700
Net ReVeM                  (322,4908)6S1,915) 26,44  101.636 160,985  228.677  269,352   367,SS9  432,093  433,068  551.920
WV                        1,183.291
ERR                           23.76X
Reducing Bmetits by           48.243
Net dwted Benefits         (322,490)(67T7S64) (24.858) 25,171  s5,871    95,124   105,327   151.570   183,88   153.421   261.17?
WV                             (150)                                                                                                      I  -
IRS                           12.00X 08
Inlremntt Sefits 2/               0  139,090 279,180 416.270 552,360   721,450  u6,540 1,057,630 1,226,720 1,396,810 1,565.90 0A*
met Revere                 (322.490)(65.995) 199,281 359,396 501,665  673,277   815,872   977,129 1,144283 1,2SO,178 1,515,120               0
IPV                       4,970,101
IRn                           48.818
Incrementsl sewf its 3/           0  193.650 387,300 575,950 f6,600 1,004,250 1.238,900 1,481,550 1,723,200 1,964,850 2,204.500
met Revenue                (522.490)(511,435) 307,401 519,076 713,905   956,077 1,168,232 1,401,049 1,640,763 1,818.218 2,153,720
WV                        7.9B,705
InR                           M2.51I
. ..................................................................................................................................
1/ Total of scerlo I for crops en  livestock.
2/ total of senarlo It for crops and livestock.
3/ total of scenario III for crops nid livestock.



PT12     P113      P114      "Is      PY16        T7      Ple8    P119       P20
.............................. ................................................................  
19.323   88,889    4,225
178      170                                 17,248   102.561    8.911       460
2,343   1I969    1,748    3,087    2,288        I'm       1,74U    1,748    1,748
100      100       100       100      100       100       100      100       100
..........  ..I ............................................
2,621    2,260   21,171   92,076    6,613    19,320   104,40    10,759    2,308
11,564    11,S64   11,56S    11,S64   11,S64    11.56     11.S5    11,564    11t5S
S,052    5,052    5.052    5.052    5,052    S5.02    5,052    S,052    5,052
13,1S9   13,159   13,159    13,159   13,159    13,1S9   13,1S9    13,159   13,159
2,196    2,196    2,196      2,196    2,196    2,196    2.196    2,196    2,196
111.i28   11,28    11,828    11,820   II,82    1t,12      11.82    11,8a    t11.
............................................................. .............................
43U,     43,798   43,796   4,798   4.798   43.7           43798   43,78   43,798
2,516    2,459    4,659    14.981     2,922    5.202    18,817    3.833    2,480
4U,935   48,S17   69,08    150.856   53,333   68,320   167,024   S8.390   48.586 
627,70   651,7     678,0   705.7      72,70   ?59.,  7 ,    816,700  8477
s786s   03183  60,a8r   5S4.84   679,367   691,380  62.676  756,310  799.114
275,963  268,803  281,467  214,415  32S,912  324,900  241,207  364,333  390,183
fI' z :
...._.._.._..,..,..,,,,,,.,._,,,.,.,...,,,,,,,.,,,,,,...................                                   OaQ  
0~
1,626,900 1,686.900 1,750,900 1,818,900 1,t93,900 1,949,900 2,022,900 2,091,900 2,165,900
1,577,96S 1,438,383 1,681,072 1,668,044 1,830,567 1,681,580 1,855,876 2,033,S10 2,117,314                     -a
................................._...............  .........
2,303,SO 2,397,500 2,499,500 2,607,500 2,71,500 2,816,500 2,932,S00 3,042,500 3,161,500
2,254,565 2,348,963 2,429,672 2,456,644 2,658,167 2,748,180 2,765,476 2,984,110 3,112,914
............. ....................................  ...............



- 188 -                     AM    12
rage 1 of 2
CHINA
AGICUILTURL SUPPORT SELRVMICES PROJECT
Selecteli pgcuments and Data Available In the Project File
A.   alorts  and Studies Related to the Prolect
A.1       China, Agricultural Support Services Project, Preject Brief
and Eight Working Papers, FAO/CP, November 27, 1990.
A.2       China, Agricultural Support Services Project, Preparation
Report, Volume 1 and 2, FAO/CP, July 18, 1991.
A.3       Agricultural Support Services Project, Farmers' Association,
Chen, Chin-Wen, November 1991.
A.4       Agricultural Support Services Project, A Proposal, Ministry of
Agriculture, August 4, 1990.
A.5       Agricultural Support Services Project, Basic Condition, China
General Seed Administration Station, Ministry of Agriculture,
Deceuber 1990.
A.6       Investigation Report on Animal and Plant Quarantine, Ministry
of Agriculture, February 1992.
A.7       Proposal for Information System of ASSP, Ministry of
Agriculture, March 17, 1992.
A.8       China-Agricultural Support Services Project-Feasibility Study
Report (Seed Section), Department of Agriculture, Ministry of
Agriculture, April 30, 1992.
A.9       Reorganization Plan for the Unified Service Center of the
Department of Agriculture--National Agrotecinmical Extension
Center, National Agrotechnical Service Center, and
Administrative Support Center, Bentz, Robert P. and Swanson,
Burton E.
A.10      China-Agricultural Support Services Project, Seeds Feasibility
Report, Attached List, May 9, 1992.
A.ll      Agricultural Support Services Project, Feasibility Report,
Animal and Plant Quarantine Service of PRC, May 10, 1992.
A.12      China-Agricultural Support Services Programme-Seed Component-
Draft Report, Lavery, P., June 1992.
A.13      China-Agricultural Support Services Project-Feasibility Study
Report, Crop Component, Department of Agriculture, Ministry of
Agriculture, June 2, 1992.



- 189 -
Page 2 of 2
A.14      China-Agricultural Support Services Project-Feasibflity Study
Report, National Agrotechnical Comprehensive Service Center,
Department of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, June 2,
1992.
A.1S      Preliminary Analysis of the Current Situation in Socialized
Service System for Agriculture, Development Research Center of
the State Council, PRC, No. 6, March 16, 1992.
3.1       Agrotechnical Extension, the Agrotechnical Extension System in
China, Working Paper 2, Swanson, Burton E., November 29, 1991.
s.2       Management Services and Project Management, ASSP/CHINA,
Working Paper, Public Adminiscration Service, December 1991.
B.3       Management Information Systems Background, ASSP/CHINA, Annex
4, Public Administration Service, December 1991.
34        Management Information System, ASSP/China, Public
Administration Service, April 1992 (Revised May 27).
3.5       Project Costs: Detailed Cost Tables.
3.6       Financial and Ecunomic Analyses.



- 190 -                                                    ClAR!t I
AGRICULTMRAL SUPPORT JERVICES PROJECT
Rzotiun  Orranizational $tructure of the Mftistrv of Aariculture
G enerab l Gftit
Interna l ACdit     
B urea of Ine  natl  Co berati|
Su*a of ?eretonel          t and Laor  
Burea of bral Syateaa Baetrutur~en.aJ |tto  of hroecenci e
_ ureu of General PlRegio
Buea o flenat.l                                           Dereopen *aud Senrvie Centr for.l |ig
Qualt7 S.agrprdute
_  ureau of Soteo end ?ecbnolog
_teau of Aih eriet ctls  a                     aat I
blarsy ti4 l Ai    Rcl ad l e miinuarie Srai eb
Watione ee Induatr  GU ir.                                                t .e  c
Bueau of 4dtniSPration
Gi.   . o.  _aorue Z mof                                              e Agetfw n
aioa ef ic8tura Ea4ibitcs Cete
Raioa 11Ag ri1Cultura Broad.aeain School
bine  Maef  F olf e Agiutrl|niern
Chns Maemof Agiutua  cienc
{ffSe    Sevie e  ureau       t  



1z          0
V~~~~~~~~~~                      16  -



AGRICULTURAL SPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Organization for Proiect ImDlementation
_.tg _W       _       1auta n4 Suwo1te  t   pwe_ mSr 0au    S1a1ag    enLe41   _Fle Orceap           Ui _torlgaB i
GrOup                                  AafieL,tAa Oroup                 Fvajn.o  GroupI
cro _u                    ___I_
LIoeoo FlU                    l                      1   d_Peu_Greup  I    rr. 2,~oa1oSal   _ l.e Group    - i<ed_nlkot|g
_ armtPID J a . I~Pt f  IllP"
I~ ~ ~ "u =  ..            .       -7                                           I     .  
1FI -
r "~~~~Pamu ml ,u.lao                  Procs  |nt Goup   ?u|~Lol*d    1 lme Gru                  VaulI F_ , m l_
| | | 0 1 1 1 1 Xtz c ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Group    p 
RO~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 193 -
M MAGRCLU^  SUPPOT SElVICES PROJECT
Ormanizational St=uctur   fteNamtinal, Asnotenhnical Litens ioe Ctr
National Agrotechiical Extension Center
Esten4ion Center
Deputy Director
11_~~~~~~~~~~ -lsed  &  ah  r
Program ISupport                            Agrotehnical Support           j
Department    |Departmeat
Proyram Monitoring                           PFeld Cpro   oductio
tvalu tion        |                L5  - Seapld  Crops
____- Oilseeds  & Cash Crops
Horticultural Crop.
- l Production
u~~~~~~~~~~B .,s .aaemn _
;r   xtersion Methodology                        Soils and Fertilizer
Trataing  an                           rop l Management
System. rtiliser
Seed Technology        |
=_ System 9"gntPlant Protection
- Field Crops
=- Horticultural CropS
.                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~- Pesticides
eCommercial Agriculture                        r arm Management/A ri-
S-rvCe8                                 Business taX8g_Smt
_  Communications and                     5Crop Mngon   ^sn
Traiig  Support                             Syste Ibs"reh



ama
NrtnOL1WMA. SYMi~ SERVCES P1WE
Prcposed Stn:twe for Pnirnial Agrv-lednical Extmiin Services
9BOVI L                  I      .I                          t Atl    tllCCIAL OEMD
ov sgtct*.iugt                         cmw-mcoemnsso
Mo SIC. tt.  tUSi-PARC DIRECtOtOR                                                          --        - PRO. ACAtEOf 116RI. SCt.
I                POL~~~ICT, itAilth, meS
om_ _i  I                          "M r             I   {                          s                      | 
all  ovs     .mi             -          - - -- - - -
t _              I                  _~--   *SUt?OOtDS SAit#tt      
I               *      I                    bE"Jtt~~~~FOM   IRECattOR 
|~~~"lt                                                                        It __LI  .                                                                          I
Ct_lKtAttOlS tittJt VIERSE                                                         WALIVttt Ilill                                SECIONtC5tlt
rEStE15tttiwlit PEO  stEt tRe                SotttlOII tERtTILt     E      R        KI autEtlr Com                               ci itlltE St"Dc
nAOwII P1819.l
cAtIcs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N1, III.  AIIEIS           |             ill   A6IcHUOA6  WA?                                                                     wuClel  A tEtlSt ISUlIt       fll411EA_tlEtt
_   t  UIIRJI 81111*  Pt                      SIJSEC t1110ttPC.tI
-  SOtS.Sl ASS   ZilC |EIL?                                  PESttl0 hSSh?(Ol           eses  ivc
tAtt



AwCiLww. SLMRr SEIUCES RKIECT
Prqxsed Stnucture for Obniciput/Prefectural Agro-TednicaL Extensln Seivices
Oftu     Adm tit. "  tt.  ttPt             Asoifn                         - -n  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -ef -Z - 
~~~~~~~~~~~~PUSSl OP at*iSASCt IM
B Ot ASTIil; Sttlo@|"   I           L     tNT. AISt41  PAWL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
L---  - - -c .--                                                                           I        . I      C I
I~~~~ i                                                                    .                                                   I  
I                      .                   !                                                                    I           
"AD, Ill.  ,RAIMisra ItpLAguing   i6tr                                                                   S
_l Ttolou                                                  Am S                                                                                    A CnAWAflOSS   St
r    MICUS   T StAittS                                                                                                                      A _  tAtIC *0tS.  -f 1L
_ma.cas:au SCRumt  . StttlOlt                 |vasouw PCt AStftit SCle. lSt5tt1t T                                                                Pt2Sttl
.V  -                                                                    -
IC" 1A*"ltSIS WIL$S ,A b SU O-TLTY SeU rtI                                       rs.  u        tsnu   stLlvca                                 SfitE
n  ORINAfitS  SEtif"      l                S ltt PATTER SP'ECILKISTS;                           SEttf                                       W attcES_
CmsusttAttotB urns ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ motala
J    "A) (Sf IECTION WIN                                                                                                                       tob4PRSI105  zSC    S
t  ~~~~~~~~~~~iStl#Ut tAttER sfftctKtsns
ittim t StU            tS    JSSSSC  PTTR SSSOIL, ;                                                                          FIS SEVIE  ICWITNSETN
EIT* CcAtOUWUAtOS                                 *s Aacaovsa sCcSOmis                                            AND $?ILSZBSSUSh
zTnVITICSE        51(150W                                                       ,                                     s1511    MCAt.  S
ENINSIS  iAtSiu                                                                                  SEEVSK ttfltS;iS
COOROISSAISS   _ICW                           #tts I SAltCR SUINAIO OfS   
M Stt       sst^S, cis.
:seqwmts  if PtShsUn 51111



GUM
ANIULltJDL SPOR1 SERNIICES PRJECT
Piqued  Structre for Comty A9o-TednicaL Extemisian Services
PAASIMAAS        ASPIC. UNIV.          NATE                           COY DEPCRTE               L                               CY  scc   D
SISEfltOARSC       iACULtY         ASN-tICO. SAGRICUSSLTR
fAtLt     GWEft.                              .                      .S,
AGRO-TFCNNLOGSIT. ADVISORY PANEL .EARD OF DlRttTOS OF
tf,tili0LOCY  Xt . ADISORY  ANEL    -- -----|    CAtEC DItTlRttR|_ - _____|    COWTt fA       ASSOC .
-AUC. .UOCASII
scam|IN                        tt. RCPASt| I L                                                                      a tAs of
StIlBOs                                                                                  Ulilt 1J   tAtEt _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ n _ _ EVt It TtP fQ313
;                           I                                                            ASSOCI^ATIOU
COIWNCAVSOUS  IIT                                                                                    M
0~~~~~~~~~
EXT. TUAtISSIS COOS.  ~SMCASI CRPASEk$C.sjv SECTION                                  5                                 ACCUNIN
 A-V ESiPUNItNE                           SUICTHTTDSPC                             PESTICIDE                                         SECTION
_VI COtRIIIIIAT10 ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ 111IN
.                                                                                                                      -
EX.CHWICAI            .Ol AN                                                                I RTILITY
S Pr AT  KASSt S@IR ES   |SS                                                                                                    .6. | 5 lPt5 E    S i   tt ERlT.   SIROTE  PTIO
titt . NKICATN               .
6 11AW106 PATERIAU                   TURAL ECOMMCS                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~SOIL, FERTILIEX &5 S CORPieIi FETILIZER
FESTICIDE $AXPLES,        "TAILED TUION
PRon YATES       lAThS EWUT SUPL  STONES
.TATES IXT. PSOSSL FOR
ONFAN O|s         TRIATIONS



ACtLlUtMI srt SEICES PUWECT
Prl,sed Stnuctue for Tohip Agro-ldnical Extemicn Services
10 cAUc #amh
fu.    ----- s--s           | to-p c     t     |---- TAM             --D---
I              ~~~~~I tI
a                                               I                  I1 '
| nsz-tECuotcls  t                                            |twRo _rK AND
r----_-~~~N om is"               -----------l                             m  EeK ts 
L.tar SISKI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LA U It       IANI
,tg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g~c .vse tI- t
esmaac,aus gzrv.astm.1                                                               'CaAt%ou
|1 ~ ~ ~ SlM  ,SOITO                                              I .RIC ICO tSI
I   .                9      rr           +          ffi I                i s~~~I  1.
r   r-~~~-' ------------l---t                              2'
I i                                   I                  . ___s  _  I "Mew"
|~    ~~ At^l  t              f              PtKltE       
I  _____  ___     _ _                    *                      t_ 
t   . ._ _  ._.  WtilOUtS                                  _                    _   i '
_ _                                                                        _~1



198 -
CHART 3E
A53C1)T CRAC SAXIDBanA./07-?107-3l-92Iav
e 2d Ragom.d S o                 erMM   Of alAa Tusabadr,. tinetry of ASrIlUe
. L|4tsof ASL4s"t
Deparanat of Anbiul 3uatadw
Rationa  Genera Seagio of Animal h.bandiy
*      !~~~Dietor' Officel
Admit.sraive Serwices
Bed Offite
-PA    Committee Office
_- Paernel
*2af.uani  sad TropaanAa
Antig  and  va2tioa
. PSae Zad Accounti
- pereictnmie ROlaCIons
.   Wtiene sad Xaeklov
Dii.its   of Animl hsbgndy                                DiVSon of AnIal leahab
tdotio uiese  anag nt                                    - . tsioal Veteriarty Diagnostic  aboratoy
* - i p De'elo : S Pset"* Magagemet                         Vetrtiary a uratmet Tesxt8g laborace
. Pasture Tics Prevention                                 - Animal Ueath Development
- Animl Steed                                               Dise"e !ceatigat:i
* Pla: and A41 COen Resousce Cter                         - Livestck Vaccnation
. Uveeseck Prodt.s Te"s ilaboratory                         Veteriary Pbanacatica. ad 3ATMSUte
- q    y UvLatott Poucts DvelopMet                          Vetnisty Stal:S.   _aagmelt
- Lvestock Rererptia. Managemet
-Aial lead Development
Livestock Poject
Division of Supprt Serices
-Teeke.lo  Development
*  -Pn    sd Dallitto
, Liestck   etenio
.  vestk Reonmic
- lnf.mion Mnaement
Mteutm a
usut
Production loncastng
Oteed Dee_pet
Computer Manageome
*Treaintg sad  dUcation
.  atStia



- 199 -  ~~~CHART 4
-    U              Em,   -U    
if.                            mu |.
if . I Lml  ,  
I~~~ I.:"'''' 
U     g!I|,0   j'    ij   1   



urn
_aXte                tea  I                 tee  *                tt                    l at  4               t e a a
950ff 50.40  d.ema_
S. ihm
ftp s *Aw_
Uube  5 also "Firu
slesm g Il     am                                                              U
mIIu. & detgt*si_
*. lSo. J.
hag. callege (2 year_ 1S
e.trm teehoScal _ _ 
woio.leoo is y. dtle)                                     _ 
sstgcmui    -" 
te-amtrp1 oi.ptve tee.
'b's0tee."  UW
3. Z      "dnom3MIE
_                                    ".
g..e  eemlae                          U           
Ueemb6 ags.  (VI ft 
msehqe&_   _  '                                                          _
Msts. at".
cow? _teasel  at".
0ls S La   941                                                                                                                                                                            o
tFtagre$       _                                                                _ -_
1315   stet4at a   'pe It)-                                                                  
ee,   1  Ieztpg S * Imeette



MSLSA -  S        W  m=
-zr * tdr I d ae  -                                                                                          r 5 1                  6
-    -     I g X 1 s 1 4    1    1    3 -             I       1--  1-                   2~I121               2 1-    1- -        t 3    4    A    2    A
S1dtmit  (8)&m t
fteemteo"    0wet
U1Str_er
C.  ej*   d n
lstigf (XI?) Ge8        
meMwert  s Elarbtem
si.
6-4        In
ee1tti 5eS                                                -           -
C. 
limel e* -d-
Sedpr.teeeetag
bgIX M
Se. tt  Setl                                                                                 .
Seed pted.ctle.
S ed     *t IT                                             _    1 i                                           I        III
QuSeetd _rcaim                                                                            
Sed  pgdtote                                                                             I 
Sed eql_
0._ Lema*  .rlau                                     -



- 202 -
.4                N.,
'4. t             1111111lD
. 4  ;   ;a   4 



CMIA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Procurement Schddul6 for Equitm6nt adid Haterialc
AND                   of X>  II TM A^TO                  92                         M  -     _ 3  _              94_                         q
40AlITY                  it"T aT
1. STEEL, FERTILTZER           ICE   10.5   MIVID            _   _ _
AND PLASTIC FILM
2. PICKUP TRUCKS AND                         APPRAISAL
SPECIALIZED) VEHIICLES   ICE    11.0   f         -         -                -    -        - 
3. LAB EQUIPMENT               ICB   13.2   A" "         _ 
4. LAB EQUIPMENT             ICB      11.4   AIVUO       _ -      -  .      .- -   - _
S. TRAINING EXTENSION                         fm-- 
EQUIPMENT                 ICB      9.3   Nc_                                                                                                       |
6. REMAINING SPECIALIZEt ICB          9.7   ArA                  .. .                             t_2 3 
VEHIICLES
TOTAL                            US., 65.1MN atvdi               -        - - -   - -
0-M4I*UUPCtOOanTsAIIAC ItIATOIA1M OCIFITAMCI OfSSIIAINA*IOC*Md0I  *ASCISITA IItCb-&OMCiumvi
C-MM C4.AIUCM CfOfDIJUIUISASI                                  asu INIITATfC#G D o TOSo" 1*0                                                                BIRDDlING$tbfea|s"
0UIMO UAUAIt-CATMMUOSCS                                           CAI eO.hl                                                                                IS -1fR S PIObIIC
lJltCtl TCI CNT*ACYOAMIUOUIAACAtIONIDATA                       4 AN*I IVALIDATION RE19PORTA AUASIADRICCOIIOAIIO)IA TOMMNG SdGOTAU
ft-ASMTlIVAS.UATlOICSI AORT AN  BCUOINOlTIDNI llTO(IDA        P IDA CLARANCE 0 AitCGEANEIAIION
0- AC LARASIC CA lltCRI*SAAATI0N1                              S ARANOCONIRACt



121012                        I2Sr            13-
132            13
CHINA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
R U S S I A N               HEILONGJIANG, JWIN AND UAONING PROVINCES
FEDERATION
S QUCHAJTlS
~SEW
PIE CUM J BOUND A 
- PMMOWBUNDAR0
1W                  1    >W<         o    eo 1-0   w   I    a
NEI MON   L                            L@X                 J
w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
X _  Ck' 1; X  _' ,'.,~~~~~~~~~~~~
..3                       RUSSM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
I~~~~DMCAI
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POL'



IBRD 239091
RUSSIAN                                    i                                                                              12e
19.\..                                                                                                    LIAONING(
*  7,      t 0                            NEI               ;      *                  _
MONGOUA                                                                                                  -~~~~MO GO                         W
'     i DEMOCRATIC
KOWA                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PEOPLE'S
-                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBUC
OF
-                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KOREA
~~  SHANDONG HA
w                                                                                                        CHINA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H
0~~~~~~~~~~
NGINGA                                      SHA NXI  
0                                                                   3Mg SHANDONGA
% ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~,P f-  ,                             "  AGRCULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
< \   S ffi J ^          y jw  (>             X                     /            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EUM,HEBEI,HD, JANS,
SHAAN AN SANGHcOAUIT PROVAINES
GANSU AN                                     H  El                                        ,
SH" ANGAI
i 1 08                               /              11?                         16               LW                        d                 SICG1
mm (Cwmmm som 005 199



IIR 23910R
tOo.  1                                  100                                           I ?                                           ilr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
CHINA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
S  H  AN                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SICHUAN, HUNAN AND GI iANG)a PROVINCES
HUBEI                                                     AGR-TNIM1N:40IO
-   0R (OMMIJIY BOUNDARES
-    MOviNc BOUNDLAEJS
0  0     14T0         240 2UNDA
-2r                                                                                                                                                    I         1~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
G  H 0 U                                                                 YANGM                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~FUJIAN
GUANGDO NG               ,~~~~~MNGIJ
24                                                                                                                                                  '.4               ' 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AII
VIET NAM                                                                                                                                                            I)aGUANDQNN
ior                                                                                                                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FHWPFM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2Co V 1If



