Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2462 CHA
(Agricultural Support Services Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 18, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2462 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 18, 1993, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS: the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Page  2
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, and any successor 
thereto.
(b)
"Project Implementation Agreements" means the agreements to be entered 
into by the Borrower with each of the Project Provinces in accordance with Section 
3.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(c)
"Project Provinces" means Beijing Municipality, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous 
Region, Hebei Province, Heilongjiang Province, Henan Province, Hunan Province, Jiangsu 
Province, Jilin Province,
Liaoning Province, Shaanxi Province, Shanghai Municipality and Sichuan Province, and 
"Project Province" means any of the Project Provinces.
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to
eighty-three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 83,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  3
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2003 and ending February 1, 2028.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2013 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MOA and the Project Provinces, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural and administrative 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall onlend to portion of the proceeds of the 
Credit corresponding to the respective parts of the Project to each of the Project 
Provinces on the following principal terms and conditions: (i) repayment over a period 
not exceeding 20 years, including six years of grace; (ii) interest at a rate of four 
per cent per annum; and (iii) foreign exchange risk over the
repayment period to be borne by the Project Province.
(b)
To that end, the Borrower shall cause MOA and the Ministry of Finance to 
enter into a project implementation agreement with each Project Province, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the
Association, under which:
Page  4
(i)
the Project Province shall carry out its respective parts of the 
Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate agricultural and 
administrative practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, 
services and other resources required;
(ii)
the Project Province shall establish and maintain the provincial 
level project 
management organizations as set out in 
paragraph A.1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and
 
(iii)
the proceeds of the Credit for the respective parts of the Project 
shall be made 
available to the Project Province on the terms 
and conditions set forth in 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment 
out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
Page  5
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any party to one of the Project 
Implementation Agreements shall have failed to perform its obligations thereunder.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of  60 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(b)
the Project Implementation Agreements shall have been entered into on 
behalf of the parties thereto.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the
Association, namely, that the Project Implementation Agreements have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all parties thereto, and are legally binding upon the 
parties in accordance with their respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
Page  6
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Goods                    40,700,000      100% of foreign
                                               expenditures,
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures (ex-
                                               factory cost) and
                                               75% of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items
                                               procured locally
(2)  Works                     25,500,000      50%
(3)  Consultants'              16,000,000      100%
     services,
     training and
     study tours
Page  7
(4)  Unallocated                1,500,000
                               ----------
      TOTAL                    83,700,000
                               ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR3,500,000 may be made 
in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after June 30, 1992.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in increasing 
agricultural production and farmers' incomes by strengthening the institutions that 
provide support services to farmers.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Agricultural Administration
 
Restructuring the organization of agro-technical extension and support services 
under MOA's Department of Agriculture, and Department of Animal Husbandry and 
Veterinary Services and improving MOA's management capability and agricultural 
information systems, through provision of consultants' services and local professional 
and language training and overseas training and study tours for senior MOA and 
provincial and other local government officials. 
Part B:
Agricultural Extension Services
 
1.
Restructuring the organization of the agro-technical extension centers at the 
national level and at the provincial, prefectural, county and township level in the 
participating Project Provinces listed in Annex 1 to this Schedule, including:
(a)
expansion and upgrading of agro-technical extension center facilities, 
establishment of national and local level service centers and provision of equipment, 
furnishings, computer hardware and software, and vehicles; and
(b)
strengthening staff capabilities to carry out functions after 
reorganization, through a program of in-country staff training, overseas training and 
study tours.
2.
Undertaking a pilot program to support the establishment or expansion of 
fertilizer blending plants under county-level agro-technical extension centers.
3.
Undertaking a program of adaptive research projects and integrated pest 
management.
4.
Supporting the extension activities of farmer associations through a study of 
farmer associations in China, a study tour and pilot projects for the delivery of 
extension services by such associations in China.
Part C:
Seed Supply Services
Page  8
1.
Strengthening seed stations at the provincial, prefectural and municipal level 
and seed companies at the county level in the participating Project Provinces listed 
in Annex 1 to this Schedule, through provision of seed processing and packing 
equipment, construction of seed storage facilities, establishment and improvement of 
seed testing facilities.
2.
Supporting the management and technical development of seed sector personnel 
through overseas and local training of staff and provision of consultants' services.
3.
Undertaking a pilot program of commercialization of county level seed companies.
 
Part D:
Livestock Services
 
1.
Strengthening livestock field services at the national level and at the 
provincial, prefectural, county and township levels in the participating Project 
Provinces listed in Annex 1 to this Schedule, developing a network of animal husbandry 
and veterinary service centers and stations at each level and establishing a national 
center and a national veterinary diagnostic reference laboratory, through construction 
and equipping of facilities, provision of vehicles, equipment and materials, local and 
overseas training and study tours for staff and consultants' services.
2.
Supporting the development of livestock production, by establishing a Specific 
Pathogen-free (SPF) Egg Production facility, a livestock-plant genetic resource 
center, a livestock products testing laboratory and a veterinary instrument testing 
laboratory, through construction and equipping of facilities and provision of local 
and overseas training and study tours and consultants' services.
Part E:
Animal and Plant Quarantine Services
 
1.
Modernizing the technical and management capabilities of the animal and plant 
quarantine services system and streamlining quarantine control procedures by: 
(a)
computerizing quarantine management and quarantine information systems 
and network;
(b)
upgrading quarantine laboratories; and
 
(c)
developing post-entry and pre-exit quarantine facilities, through 
construction and equipping of facilities and provision of local and overseas training 
and study tours and consultants' services.
Part F:
Quality Control and Regulatory Services
 
1.
Supporting the development of effective regulatory and monitoring services for 
fertilizers and pesticides, by upgrading and equipping the Institute for Control of 
Agrochemicals and ten provincial level institutes and upgrading national and 
provincial soil testing laboratories, and providing staff training and vehicles.
2.
Establishing, constructing and equipping the following facilities for improved 
regulatory control of seed quality and livestock feed and drug, and providing vehicles 
and related staff training:
(a)
provincial seed testing laboratories and provincial and prefectural level 
inspection facilities;
(b)
upgrading of the National Control Institute for Veterinary Bioproducts 
and Pharmaceuticals and nine provincial centers;
(c)
upgrading of the China National Center for Quality Supervision and 
Testing of Feed, and nine provincial centers; and
(d)
a National Center for Quality Control of Veterinary Equipment and a 
National Center for Quality Control of Animal Husbandry Products.
*       *        *
Page  9
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
Annex 1 to Schedule 2
Project Provinces
A.
Project Provinces participating in Parts B and C of the Project
 
      Beijing
      Guangxi Zhuang
      Hebei
      Heilongjiang
      Hunan
      Jiangsu
      Liaoning
      Shaanxi
      Shanghai
      Sichuan
B.
Project Provinces participating in Part D of the Project
 
      Beijing
      Guangxi Zhuang
      Hebei
      Heilongjiang
      Henan
      Hunan
      Jilin
      Shanghai
      Sichuan
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines).  For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in 
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed 
beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be 
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to 
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to 
the local currency component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken 
into account in the bid evaluation.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Specialized laboratory and testing equipment up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $5,300,000,  may be procured under contracts awarded through limited 
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids 
Page  10
obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in 
accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding 
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of:
(a)
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association, for equipment items, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $4,500,000; and
(b)
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association, for office supplies, furniture and basic equipment, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $2,000,000.
3.
Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association, except that works estimated to cost the equivalent of $15,000 or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,800,000, may  be carried out 
by force account.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) 
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Overall Project Implementation
 
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Management Office and Project 
Page  11
Implementation Units in MOA and the provincial level Project Management Offices in the 
Project Provinces shall be maintained with functions and responsibilities acceptable 
to the Association, with competent staff in adequate numbers.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that local and overseas training and study tours, 
adaptive research and extension programs and consultants' services shall be provided 
in accordance with plans agreed with the Association, and, to that end, shall cause 
MOA's Project Management Office to prepare and furnish to the Association by September 
30 of each year the proposed plans for all Parts of the Project for the next calendar 
year.
3.
The Borrower shall undertake a review of the progress of and prospects for 
implementation of the Project with the Association by December 31, 1995.
4.
The Borrower shall procure about 660 vehicles required for the Project in 
accordance with a plan acceptable to the Association and shall furnish a draft plan to 
the Association no later than July 1,
1993.
B.
Implementation of the Parts of the Project
 
1.
The Borrower shall cause agro-technical extension and support services under 
MOA's Department of Agriculture and the Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary 
Services, to be reorganized on the
basis of an organizational structure agreed with the Association by June 30, 1994.
2.
The Borrower shall cause the support for farmer associations under Part B.4 of 
the Project to be carried out under terms of reference and timing agreed with the 
Association.
3.
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association by July 1, 1994 a 
pilot program for seed company commercialization under Part C.3 of the Project, and 
shall implement the program thereafter as agreed with the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall cause MOA to prepare and furnish to the Association by 
December 31, 1993 a plan of action to ensure that China's quarantine procedures are 
consistent with best international
practice, and shall implement the program thereafter as agreed with the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
Page  12
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Page  13
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
