Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 7930
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SWAMPS RECLAMATION I PROJECT
(LOAN 1958-IND)
FAO/WORLD BANK COOPERATIVE PROGRAMME
INVESTIMENT CENTRE
JUNE 30, 1989
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Rupiah (Rp)
At Aftyrisal November 1979
US$1.00      - Rp 625
Rp 100       - US$ 0.0016
Rp 1,000,000 - US$ 1,600
Annual Averages
1297   1980   1981   12       81    1984    1985    1986  1987
US$1.00   Rp.-623.06 626.99 631.76 661.42 901.26 1,025.94 1,110.58 1,650 1,650
.ABBR,EVIATIONS
AARD      - Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
DGA       - Directorate of Agrarian Affairs
DGFCA     - Directorate General of Food Crops
DGT       - Directorate General of Transmigration
DGWRD     - Directorate General
GOI       - Government of Indonesia
ha        - hectares
km        - kilometres
MHOT      - Ministry of Transmigration
P45/35    - Directorate of Tidal Swamp Reclamation
PTPT      - Directorate of Land Preparation for Transmigration
Settlement
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Indonesia: April 1 - March 31



101 oFFcIAL use ON[s
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Olkt od DOit.Gawal
OatiakeVaUtonW
June 30, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report on Indonesia Swamps Reclamation
I Pro1ect (Loan 1958-IND)
Attached, for information, iS a copy of a report entitled
uProject Completion Report on Indonesia Swamps Reclamation I Project
(Loan 1958-IND)m prepared by the FAOIWorld Bank Cooperative Programe.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distfibution and may be used by recipients only in the petformance|
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SWAMPS RECLAMATION I PROJECT
PRQJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Preface
Basic Data Sheet                                       li
Ryaluation Summarv                                    iii
I.       PROJECT BACKGROUND                                      1
- General                                              1
- Project Formulation                                  1
II.      IMPLEMENTATION                                          2
- General                                               2
- Drainage Works                                        2
- Site Development                                      3
- Settlement                                            5
- Agriculture Development                               5
- Action Program                                       7
III.     PROJECT RESULTS                                         7
- Agricultural Impact                                   7
- Environmental Impact                                 9
- Economic Rate of Return                               9
- Project Sustainability                              10
- Borrower's Performance                              10
- Bank Performance                                    11
IV.      CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED                        12
- Conclusions                                         12
- Issues and Lessons Learned                           12
AMS
Annex 1 - Project Implementation
Annex 2 - Re-Estimated ERR
ATTACHMENT 1 - Borrower Comments
This document hs a resticd distibution and may be ued by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
INDONESIA
SWAMP RECLAMATION I PROJECT (LOAN 1958-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Swamp Reclama-
tion I Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 1958-IND in the amount of
US$22.0 million was approved on  March  19,  1981.   The loan was closed on
December 31, 1987, one  year  behind  schedule.   The last disbursement was
made on June 14, 1988; US$3.9 million were cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Cooperative Program of the Food and
Agriculture Organization and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
and  President's  Reports,   the   Loan  Agreement,  supervision  reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and Internal Bank
memoranda.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments and they are attached
to the Report (Attachment 1).



- ii -
IPRJW Q01f4IiNiMiWIIt
nDmmTA!SWiS iRLAuAIfN I  U.J3r (LOA  1OM-UQ
NOf PROEC DATA
hPrt_iI              Actual or             Actual *, I of
",I-,         gcurrtt       l 
ro4et eoIte JtRU4flS nlIlii                                             t            0        71  
ilm            ~          Ldx.    aun             LLA          uamnt3 I            alias            Isn  Is       arsni _m 3IA 
li *rjao Le rve                                                                           2Ii
iI *                       .1111 I-f                                 I 12i
n lu.L /1                            ... I ee_on    ntLol-t d.....  ...L.. 
Oar,easr                    Oovsrglamn families                                         2.am
lelon pr to rct: rn                                                                                             En       mu
-namela  r-t-s oal.to  I!ur  Pr.ir-
sd  Nl ie           maagril -r u   Pro e- teliaiP-  oiia;an        Ur
Apisi -ten          87.   6.0r ne      .1-               -     -     - 6.
SuparvIVEon  DISI          .4i  4.9  9.2  8.7  8.8  14.6  10.0  16.0  69.9
/p  ZnaddIton t  thes  VUII  gaup miln *IeI ons withere have1 bee   I Iua Iofn pca    iso,udrae
I5Z IS           ea4       ,        ,        ,        ,
Date      No of   ih- - Srectel izattens    Performanceypo
Mison                   rnt-                   Inoi-l        represnted /a       retinai /i      IXri/J        i        /'i
ae H                            g 
auu-'t 112b>^                             1 
abrv-i    2                12t                                       I a                                               .i T
sriion ail 1i3___
f-eWt     i                10i5          rd        li.d                                                             _
Won118 a                                   8 A                                                              l
-ctown.le-Z                         lrrt      r    fTrnerto   Ninisaltr of Tr ngasior tion 72
-irft eM nore                    Anri I I - rChe   al
Yrruefeur r  tobbeavlationl                Itmis  tRnl
Completion vusr aver e                       iSmh          |    i 
irol low-on project:
bgnjd                                 RnAMi1J11-i9jn 1I Prlelt
bnn gMiWenCs   nlO ml I ion)           NIB
UMO      o rd   *ugrovz IDZs
a}  *   *euilturists b - agricultural ecnoit: c * finencial analyst; d *  npin*er.
itI * relo_fr*- or *intor proble; 2 * moderate problem  and 3 * mjar problem
{gI *if poine 2 * otionnry; d  deterioratingo
/-  F * *inaeizl M    ma*nagerial; T *t ebeie l; P * politile l; and O * other.
Em EAR MU ES2 i EM CM MU MUe EM M
Proappreisl    a.1  8.4  2.8  a.e    -                                        7.2
Appraisal       -  57. B  80    -        1          -     -    -            .a7
Neoition        -    -   9.7   -    -                          -     -      .7
Su"rvi-ion      -    -      .4  4.e   9.2  8 7  a.a  14 ti 10.0  lti6 8   1 
MOt             -      .4   .3    -     .8   -    -    -    -    _    1.0
TOTAL       5.1  a.-4 21-2  bl 8   S a  8 7  a S  14 .i 10.0  16.8 ltiS 4
/In addition tbo the full ;;j7rl-v   n *i- lon-, there hav bo b-na number at special *lssin- undertaken
by *t ff and con ult nt for obih separate details v re not available
timet of appraislo wl Nilntry of Nnpweor and Transmiration.



- iii -
INDONMStk
SWAMP RECLANUTDON I PROJECT WDAN 1958-IND
PROJECT COMPLETION RZPOfT
Evaluation Su=mary
h1ckground
1.       The project was the first Bank-assisted project in Indonesia on
settlement of reclaimed coastal swamp lands. Large areas of swamp had been
reclaimed by spontaneous farmers in tidally influenced areas along estuaries
with favorable soils in Kalimantan and Sumatera. However in the larger
government schemes developed in the seventies, the difficulties In manAgement
of deep peat and potential acid-sulphate soils in swamp areas became
apparent. The project was directed at assisting government in resolving the
engineering and soil-water management problems in swamp development, and at
addressing institutional support deficiencies.
2.       The project provided for drainage, land clearing, settler housing and
public facilities, transport and settlement of transdigrant farmers (3,200
families) with food subsistence in the initial settlement period, services to
settlers, project monitoring and a series of studies. Each settler would
receive a 0.5 ha houselot and a separate 1.75 ha cropping area.
Implementation was to be carried out by two directorates in the Ministry of
Public Works, one directorate in the Ministry of Manpower, one directorate in
the Ministry of Agriculture and the agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD), all under the coordination of the Junior Minister for
Transmigration.
Inplementation
3.       In general, project implementation was much slower than anticipated
at appraisal; many contracts were not carried out efficiently; and settler
services were poorly developed. The project was extended for one year, and a
"special action program" to address these and other problems in the latter two
years of the project was partially successful.
4.       The hydraulic infrastructure program initially suffered from poor
contractor performance and the use of inappropriate equipment, but the quality
of the final product was satisfactory. Economic design standards for canals
in soils of variable structure have meant that there will be a continuing
requirement for excavation to maintain drain capacity.
5.       Budgetary constraints hampered the site development (clearing,
housing etc.) and settlement components, as the loan was largely allocated to
the hydraulic infrastructure at lOOX financing (all other components except
land clearing of the main cropping area and consultancies were financed from
non-loan resources). Early land clearing contracts (for Lahan I and house
plot) were poorly specified and, because construction supervision proved
inadequate, the implementntion was unsatisfactory. Poor coordination between



- iv -
agencies and the budgetary probleim  resulted in such of the cleared areas
haviug heavy repowth when settlers arrlved; this, and the necessity to
destump the land, resulted in very slow developmnt of the plots by settlers.
Apart from a limited but very favorable area with t1dal Irtrigtion and soils
wbich are easlly sanaged, most farmers have concentrated on thelr houselots
with llttle development of the main cropping area. The origlual plot layout
for the main cropplng area was unsatisfactory as it eucerbated the severe
problem of crop damage by pigs and rate. Services to settlers In Input supply
and technical assistance were poorly developed. This also contributed to the
slow agricultural development as farmers were not Informed of the most
appropriate soil and water management practices for the variable atd often
difficult soils; the extension services were particularly weak In these
aspects.
6.       The lmp'ementation problems gave rise to a "special action program'
in 1986 and 1987 on the strong recommendation of the Bank. This Involved
redesiga of plot layout on about 40S of the area, reclearing of land,
construction of a fence to prevent pig invasion from the surrounding forest,
completion of market infrastructue, tubewell development for potable water
supply, and drain re-excavation. This program improved the situation but did
not resolve all the management and service deficiencies. A total of 2,856
families were settled at loan closure.
Results
7.       Because of the slow development of cropping (associated with
difficult soils, high labor requirement for soil preparation, animal and
insect pests, scarce inputs, and poor supporting services) the harvested crop
area was only 30S of that anticipated in the SAR when the project closed. By
1992/93 it is anticipated that only about half of the main cropping area will
be cultivated on average, but multiple cropping will result In a harvested
area of about 75Z of the appraisal estimate; the availability of family labor
limits the area developed for cultivation. Although yields at project closure
were less than the SAR estimates, it is assumed that a gradual improvement In
soil and crop management wll eventualiy lead to yields similar to that
assumed in the SAR for full development. Family income is expected to reach
about US4800 equivalent under the above scenario compared to the US$1,450 at
appraisal. The ERR for the project is estimated at 6% (13S In the SAR).
Sustainability
8.       The sustainability of the project will largely depend on the
efficiency with which the drainage system is operated and maltained. The
main canal system shoulld be maintained satisfactorily in the next few years
with the support of the Bank's Irrigation Subsector Loan, and a satisfactory 0
and M capacity is expected to be instituted during Repelita V. The more
important issue is the ibsence of a strong extension service for swamp
farming, as farmers have not been trained in soil/water management techniques
to leach acid and toxic soil elements. This will slow the realization of the
development potential nl1. in some cases, may result in loug term damage
through oxidation of ic.: sulphate soils.



nudigsm  ad L4ssons
9.       rho gel  lessons for the Bank are as follows:
'a) In comples settlement projects, it is usually preferable to have
the loan finance a part of all of the critical Investmnt and
service components rather than to heavily support ±nfrastructural
investment at the expense of softer components. Without direct
loa support for the required services, the respouslble agencies
are likely to give less eaphasis to the requirements, and the
component is also likely to receive less budgetary priority.
This problem has characterised may Bank-supported irrigetion and
drainage projects in which engineering works have been completed,
but realization of the Intended agricultural development and
production has been poor.
(b) With a project of this type, which was deuidped to develop
appropriate means of managing technical and organizational
problems, a follow-on project should not have been initiated
until substantial progress ha4 been made in resolvitg the
identified problems; in this case the follow-on project (Swamp II;
Loan 2&31-DD) was appraised in 1983 before any settlers were on
site to even commence agricultural production on the swamp soils.
(c) Development and settlement of coastal swamps for agricultural
production is a very complex undertaking. Because of the need to
progressively make development decisions in response to
cumulative information (especially concerning soils and
soil/drainage interactions), managemeat which relies on a
coordination committee system for a number of development
agencies is inappropriate; some form of single management
structure appears necessary.
(d) In dealing with farm development in difficult soil conditions
requiring skilled management, the provision of appropriate
technical guidance to farmers by a regular extension service with
a poor service record should not be assumed; special provisions
must be made.
10.      The project implementation difficulties raise the question as to the
extent to which a government should develop holdings for smallholders on sites
which have a good production potential but are very difficult and complex to
develop. Traditionally in Indonesia, the concept has been that basic
drainage, housing, community facilities and infrastructure, and some land
clearing should suffice for the primary development phase. The settler would
be expected to gradually develop the whole allocated area and install further
drainage and water control. Except under very favorable and unusual
circumstances (particularly in tidally irrigated areas on relatively problem-
free soils), the settlers do not progress past the agricultural subsistence



- vi -
phase and are unable to develop their holdings as intended. This has given
rise to a new government program of second stage development of swamp
reclamation areas at substantial costs per ha. The adoption of a single
management structure at the primary development stage (para 9c) would give
the opportunity for a more organized approach to development, including the
use of settlers as laborers until development reaches a stage which can be
managed without difficulty by a family unit. Cost recovery of the
incremental investment needed should be largely recoverable through credit
because of the improved viability of the settler unit; the economics of
development should be enhanced by greater productivity within a shorter
time; settler welfare would be increased; and further development of
allocated land could be undertaken by settlers from an improved equity and
production base. This development concept is being studied under a
consultancy under Swamp Reclamation II.



INDONESIA
SWAMPS RECLAMATION I PROJECT (LN 1958-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.   PROJECT BACKGROUND
General
1.1      The  Swamps  Reclamation  I  Project (Swamps I) was the first Bank-
financed project of this nature in Indonesia for settlement in reclaimed
swamp area. It was followed by Swamps II in 1984, which is still under
implementation. Swamps I was appraised in November 1979 and an agreement for
a loan of US$ 22 million was signed in March 1981. The project, with a total
estimated cost of US$44.6 million, to be implemented over a 5-year period,
became effective in June 1981 and was completed in December 1987 after a
one-year extension.
ProJect Formulation
1.2      The  availability  of  potentially  productive  swampland  and  its
subsequent reclamation and development has been viewed as providing an
oportunity for increasing both employment and food production. Large areas
of swamps had been reclaimed spontaneously by farmers on stretches affected
by tides along river estuaries in Kalimantan and Sumatra over a long period
of time. Recognizing the potential, the Government of Indonesia (GOI)
reclaimed about 72,000 ha, penetrating inland from coastal rivers, between
1969 and 1978. The experience brought to light difficulties related to the
management of peat and potential acid-sulphate soils, which spontaneous
settlers on better soils along river banks did not face.
1.3      In order to accelerate swamp  reclamation  and  the  transmigration
programme, GOI requested World Bank assistance. Consequently, a feasibility
study for the reclamation of 130,000 ha of swamps was carried out in Karang
Agung, South Sumatra. The study, undertaken by consultants, and financed by
the Bank under Irrigation IV Project (Loan 1268-IND) was completed in
October 1979. Of the area of 90,000 ha found suitable for agriculture, GOI
and  the  Bank  appraisal  mission  selected  9,000 ha  as  a  first   stage
development, to be implemented in five years. This is now known as Swamps I
Project.
1.4      The  objectives  of  the  project  were  to  support  GOI's  swamps
development programme for transmigration, and, in the process, to assist in
resolving some of the engineering and soil-water management problems not
faced in previous schemes. The project also aimed to introduce low cost
technology and to build the technical and managerial capacity of the
institutions responsible for constructing the hydraulic infrastructure and
land clearing. As appraised, the project included: (a) settlement of 3,200
farm families; (b) construction of hydraulic infrastructure consisting of a
navigation canal (9 km), primary canals (24 km), secondary canals  (196  km)
and tertiary systems over an area of 9,000 ha; land clearing for houselots
and farm plots; construction of 3,200 houses for settlers; construction of



community facilities in seven villages; agricultural support programme; and
studies, institutiondl support and monitoring.
1.5      The project is located in Karang Agung, about  80 km  northwest  of
Palembang (in part of a plot swampy low lying plain), covered by dense scrub
and secondary forest. The climate is typically tropical, hot and humid with
an average rainfall of about 2,500 mm. The area is characterized by two
distinct seasons, wet season (October to April) with 15 rainy days per month
and monthly rainfall ranging between 230 mm and 300 mm; and the dry season
(May to September) rainfall ranging between 170 mm in May and 102 mm in July
for 8-10 days per month. Soils in the area are classified as 40% potential
acid soils, 25% shallow and deep peat soils, 5% other problem soils and 30%
problem-free soils.
1.6      Project  implementation  was assigned to the Directorate General of
Transmigration (DGT) of the Ministry of Labour for village site planning,
construction of settler houses and village facilities and settlement of
transmigrants; the Directorate of Tidal Swamps Reclamation (P4S, later
renamed P3S) of the Ministry of Public Works for t;he construction of the
hydraulic  infrastructure;  the  Directorate   of   Land   Preparation   for
Transmigration Settlement (PTPT) of the Ministry of Public Works for land
clearing; the Directorate General of Food Crops (DGFCA) for agricultural
support; and the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) for
agricultural research. The office of Junior Minister for Transmigration
(JMT)   was  made  responsible  for  the  overall  coordination  of  project
implementation at the central level, while a newly ar?ointed coordinator by
JMT and another by P3S were expected to ensure coordination at the regional
(province) and field level respectively.
II.   IMPLEMENTATION
General
2.1      In general, project implementation was much slower than anticipated
at   appraisal.   This  was  mainly  due  to  budget  limitations,  lack  of
coordination   among   the   implementing   agencies,   difficult   terrain,
insufficient   preparation  of  the  agricultural  development  aspects  and
occurrence of problem soils which were completely new to the transmigrants.
An attempt to correct some of the deficiencies was made in 1985/86 ar,d
1986/87 by implementing a "special action programme". The salient features
of the project implementation are discussed below.
Drainage Works
2.2      Lengthy administrative procedures delayed the award of the contract
for the hydraulic infrastructure by six months. Despite having been
prequalified,  the  contractor   lacked   suitable   experience   and   used
inappropriate excavation equipment. This contributed to further delay and
additional cost, thereby aggravating the contractor's weak management and
lack of financial resources. The excavators procured by the contractor could
not excavate the full cross-section due to their inadequate boom length.
Efforts to excavate the sectien with longer arms also failed as these
twisted due to excessive torque. The implementing agency, P3S, assisted the
contractor   by  renting  one  floating  excavator  and  two  draglines  for
excavation of a navigation canal. Simultaneously, it expedited payment to



the contractor to improve his financial position and to enable him to
purchase suitable equipment.
2.3      These actions improved the pace and quality  of  implementation  of
the hydraulic infrastructure. The initial difficulties resulted in a delay
of about two years, compared to the appraisal programme, as the work of  the
main contractor was completed in mid-1986. By then, the construction of the
navigation canal, of the 5 primary and 94 secondary canals as  well  as  the
tertiary  system were completed. Under a separate programme (para 2.25), the
secondary canals  were  equipped  with  control  structures,  replacing  the
primary control structures proposed at appraisal. These provided a flexible
means of cotitrolling water levels in the fields for eventual separate
drainage of an area affected by a secondary canal (80-100 ha) and for tidal
irrigation.
2.4      In spite of the problems facea, the quality of work  at  completion
was   satisfactory.   Strict  supervision  by  consultants  maintained  good
*standards of construction and compliance with the specifications.
2.5      The project has highlighted the difficulties of  excavating  stable
channels in very soft and variable soils. Because the mechanical properties
of the soil varied from place to place, it was impracticable to design
slopes to accommodate tidal variations which would be both stable and
economical.  The  compromise  adopted  was  to  excavate  canals  with   1:2
(vertical:horizontal) side slopes and after two or three years re-excavate
where necesary to restore the canal bed level. There will be a continuing
requirement for excavation to maintain the canals.
2.6      It  was  found  that suction dredging was unsatisfactory because it
was not practicable, even  with  construction  of  drains,  to  prevent  the
effluent   from   the   dredged   material  which  was  often  very  acidic,
contaminating the land for a considerable distance from the canal bank.  For
small  canals (secondaries), back-acting hydraulic ex-.avators operating from
timber  mattresses  appear  to  be  satisfactory,  provided  they   operated
sufficiently far back from the edge of the excavation in order not to
overload the bank and cause slips. For larger canals beyond the reach of
hydraulic excavators, drag lines might be the most appropriate.
2.7      Adequate  maintenance  of  the  hydraulic  infrastructure  will  be
crucial to the future development of the project. Although late, GOI has
made all the necessary provisions for operation and maintenance (0 & M) of
the system and has established a provincial agency (P2JP) to be responsible
for 0 & M of the project starting 1987/88. It has been estimated by the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) that 0 & M for
Swamps I would cost Rp20,000/ha/year.l/ The 0 & M requirements include
monitoring, evaluation, data collection aid analysis and regular maintenance
of the infrastructure for drainage and water control. Provisions have been
made under the new Irrigation Sub-sector Loan, assisted by the Bank, for
financing part of the 0 & M requirements until GOI provides 100% financing
in the future. Technical assistance and advisory services to P2JP are also
provided under the loan.
Site Development
2.8      Land clearing was initially the responsibility of PTPT, Ministry of
Public Works but, in 1983, PTPT was incorporated within the newly created
Ministry of Transmigration (MOT). The new ministry was divided into two
Directorate Generals - one for Settlement and Planning (where PTPT was
incorporated) and the other for Mobilisation and Development.
11 The Borrower has re-evaluated this estimate as perhaps too low
(see Attachment 1, page 3).



- 4 -
2.9      The development of the site commenced in 1982 and  by  the  end  of
that year about 500 ha had been cleared for houselots, enabling the
contractors to start construction of village infrastructure. Because of
budgetary constraints and the ceiling imposed by Government of Rp250,000/ha
for land clearing, the land clearing was initially undertaken without
providing the contractor precise specifications. The specifications called
generally for cutting down trees and burning them on site. No de-stumping
was undertaken by the contractors. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) had not
provided any indication of the specifications for land clearing. Land
clearing works, which were carried out manually using chain saws, were given
to too many small contractors who did not have sufficient financial capacity
to undertake the job properly and delays often resulted in burning being
undertaken during wet weather leading to  poor burn'. 'upervision  by  local
consultants has not succeeded in avoiding such poor land clearing.
2.10     All  these  factors have reduced the area available for cultivation
considerably. Settlers generally arrived about a year after the land had
been cleared and hence their allotted home garden and field plots were full
of stumps and re-grown bush. Clearing this and removing the tree stumps took
a  long  time and reduced the labour available for directly productive work.
Owing to the slow rate of development and difficulties faced by settlers,
new re-clearing and de-stumping contracts were made in November 1986 under a
special action programme, to re-clear the first hectare (LU I) and second
reserve field plot of 0.75 ha (LU II). Under the action plan, contractors
were given precise specifications which included the clearing of all forest
growth, the removal of stumps with a diameter of 20 cm and below, cutting
trees over 20 cm diameter to ground level and complete burning of the
debris. This was also done in LU II, excluding de-stumping, in order to
reduce crop damage by pests.
2.11     The original layout of farm plots was such that areas of LU I were
in narrow strips of land separated by similar strips of LU II. The uncleared
strips of LU II became a refuge for pests, notably pigs and rats, driven out
of LU I by land clearing. Under the action programme, the layout was revised
for about half of the area, whereby LU I plots are in blocks adjacent to the
houseplot and all LU II plots are in one block behind the LU I block. A game
fence was erected to separate all the field plots from the forest.
2.12     The construction of the settler houses and  village  infrastructure
started well. By November 1983 about 500 houses were constructed with the
necessary  village  facilities.  However,  because   of   budget   problems,
constructian fell behind schedule in later years, although this did not
become a real problem due to the delayed arrival of settlers, also for lack
of funds. In fact, about 800 settler houses were left unoccupied for over a
year, after which they needed rehabilitation under the action programme.
2.13     As part of site development, bridges were constructed by  P3S  over
secondary canals. However, due to budgetary constraints they were made too
narrow for farm equipment and it was decided to construct culverts
alongside. Both structures could have been omitted if the secondary control
structures had been originally envisaged as the road layout could have made
use of the secondary control structures as bridges. In addition to the farm
roads, about 50 km of access roads were also constructed between 1984 and
1986 and rehabilitated in 1987/88. The purpose of this road is to link the
project area to Teluktenggulang and then to the Trans-Sumatra highway. In
1986, a warehouse and jetty were built for the project at Sungai Lilin,
although this is not served by this road.



-5-
Settlement
2.14     About 500 families were settled in 1983/84,  which  was  considered
satisfactory. However, there was no settlement in 1984/85, although about a
total of 1,300 houses were completed. This was mainly due to budget
limitations. The settlement component was funded fully under the GOI budget
with no financing from the Bank and hence suffered from the budgetary
restraints in these years. In addition, under normal GOI practice, fully
sponsored transmigrants were provided with subsistence requirements for 18
months, while spontaneous and local transmigrants were provided only for
about four months. Considering the difficult conditions in the swamps, the
Bank requested GOI for the provision of 18-month subsistence requirements
for all transmigrants, thus escalating costs.
2.15     At appraisal, it was envisaged  to  settle  about  3,200  families.
During implementation, however, it was assessed that the area could only
settle 2,900 families, allowing for 2.25 ha of land per settler family (0.5
ha houselot, 1.0 ha LU I and 0.75 ha, LU II). At project completion. 2,856
families had been settled.
2.16     At present, the settlers  are  on  a  subsistence  level  in  their
houselot as they have yet to develop the bulk of their field plots. However,
they are enthusiastically striving hard to establish themselves in the area,
in spite of the difficult terrain and the minimum guidance given to them on
how to deal with the soils in the swamps. They have the basic community and
village facilities such as schools and health centres. However, they have
difficulties In finding sufficient drinking water during the dry season. The
project has distributed seven drums <1> for each family (total storage
capacity of 1,400 litres) to accummulate rain water for use during the dry
season. This quantity was insufficient to last throughout the whole dry
season and settlers were obliged to drink canal water which has resulted in
numerous cases of intestinal infections. Under the action programme, a deep
tubewell was drilled and suitable water for drinking was found. However, the
water supply is presently plannLd to serve about 50% of the settlers
although the water is believed to be sufficient to supply all the settlers.
Funds are now being sought to extend the distribution system to cover all
the project area.
2.17     All  settlers  were  expected  to  obtain  certificates  from   the
Directorate of Agrarian Affairs (OGA), first for land use rights to their
2.25 ha within one year, and on land ownership within five years after the
date of arrival. The issuance of certificates has been slow and is not yet
complete in the areas where the farm layout has been modified because the
modification has to be reviewed by OGA.
Agricultural Development
2.18     The viability of the  project  is  in  doubt  because  agricultural
development occurred at a much slower rate than anticipated at appraisal.
The SAR anticipated complete planting of the entire area in the houselots
and field plots within two and five years respectively following settlement.
At project completion, agricultural development was mainlv confined to the
houselots with a total cropping intensity of about 150%. Out of the area
allocated to first field plots (LU I) (2,900 ha), the total developed area
<1>      Some late settlers have reported that they have been given less
than seven drums.



- 6 -
is only about 650 ha of total cultivated area of about 1,000 ha. No
development at all had been undertaken in the remaining LU II area, which
remain covered with forest regrowth, and it is doubtful if it will be
developed in the near future, considering the limited manpower and financial
capability of the settlers. The settlers are composed of predominantly young
families with one or two small children.
2.19     Numerous   problems   have   seriously   constrained   agricultural
development and have undermined the settlers' confidence and ability to
develop agriculture as projected at appraisal. The main problems relate to
difficult soils, poor quality of land clearing, frequent attacks by pests
and diseases and the extreme weakness of the agricultural support services.
2.20     Soils in the project area consist mostly of peats overlying  clays.
Their productivity is sensitive to the depth of peat, the level of the water
table, the salinity of the water and the characteristics of the underlying
clay. With a careful selection of sites and the application of proven
management  techniques,  much  of  the  area  selected  for  settlement   is
potentially highly productive. Wrongly managed, the underlying clays can
become extremely acid and the soils remain permanently unproduictive, as has
happened in some plots in the area.
2.21     The standard of land clearing was poor and settlers arriving a year
or so later had to spend considerable time, not only in re-clearing and
removal of stumps, but also to raise bunds to enable them to plant perennial
crops on these bunds and paddy and secondary crops on the lower portion of
the land. Owing to the slow rate of development and difficulties faced by
settlers, new re-clearing and de-stumping was carried out in 1986/87 in the
field plots. Since then, the condition has not changed very much as the
fields were again covered with forest regrowth.
2.22     Farmers were  unable  to  exert  effective  control  against  pests
(particularly pigs and rats) and diseases which have caused considerable
crop losses. The forest regrowth has again become the host for pests and the
fence was rendered ineffective through lack of maintenance. Campaigns for
control of pests and diseases were undertaken but were not coordinated and
sustained. Quantities of free chemicals provided in the project packages in
the first three years were either inadequate or not timely provided.
Additional supplies were not available in the local market for purchase by
settlers who were no longer eligible for free packages. Farmers also lack
knowledge of the correct use of chemicals.
2.23     Many   of   the  problems  of  slow  agricultural  development  are
attributable to a failure to provide effective support services from the
outset of the project. It was not until 1987, the last year of the extended
project period, that a rural extension centre was established in the area.
More seriously, however, the extension staff have no special training or
expertise in the management of reclaimed swamp soils and they generally lack
motivation because of the unattractive terms of service and the harshness of
the duty station. The difficulties faced by farmers have been exacerbated by
insufficient and untimely supply of the initial production inputs for the
first three years. A large number of farmers did not benefit from the free
distribution of planting materials and had to purchase these from the local
markets. Quantities of fertilizer, nrecticide and rodenticide provided by
the project were well below minimum requirements due to budget constraints.
Fertilizers were only provided in the third year and rodenticides have not
been supplied since 1986. Three village cooperatives were estab'ished but
were inactive. One large warehouse was completed in 1987 but remained
unutilised and the proposed village unit bank was not established.



- 7 -
2.24     Improvement of problem soils, covering  approximately  70%  of  the
project area, would be slow because of the lack of the necessary advice by
the extension service on the appropriate application of soil and water
management practices. Some trials carried out on farmers' fields by AARD
have demonstrated good yields but these did not represent average farming
practices under harsh conditions and environment. However, in the early
settled houseplots, paddy yields are gradually increasing from about 0.6
tons/ha in the first year to about 1.5 tons/ha on suitable soils. There is
potential for even higher yields provided that farmers become aware of how
to manage soils in the swamps and also apply the necessary inputs for
optimum farming. Sustained agricultural growth will also depend on the level
of development of markets and marketing facilities. At present, the local
market attracts small merchants who bring consumer goods, farm inputs and
purchase limited amounts of produce. They use small boats as a means of
transport to and from the district headquarters, Sungai Lilin, about 20 km
away from the project. Improvement of canals to accommodate bigger boats
might be necessary in the future. Alternatively, the possibility of
connecting the area to Sungai Lilin by road needs to be explored.
Action Programme
2.25     In 1985, it was seen that settlement was unlikely to be  successful
unless a number of constraints were removed. An action programme was rapidly
formulated and implemented by the project in 1986/87 and 1987/88. The
programme included modifying the farm layout in the areas drained by Primary
Canals Nos.4 and 5, re-clearing and de-stumping of LU I and clearing of LU
II in the project area. Also included in the action programme were: the
construction of a fence to exclude pigs and rats; construction of farm and
village roads and bridges to improve access; construction of jetties,
warehouses and an open market to improve marketing; prcvision of a tubewell
and piped water supply to about half the project area; re-excavation of one
primary canal to restore the full cross-section and construction of
secondary control structures and tertiary drains.
2.26     These  works,  which  were  carried  out between mid-1986 and April
1988, were only partially successful: the fence and land clearing has not
stopped crop damage by pigs in the recently settled areas and rats remained
a problem; the jetties and warehouses have not yet been used since there is
no surplus production. The potable water distribution system will serve only
about half the population unless the distribution system is extended.
III.   PROJECT RESULTS
Agricultural Impact
3.1      As discussed in the previous chapter, agricultural development  has
been very slow. Impact so far has been limited and confined essentially to
the houselots and to a small area of LU I. At present settlers are
cultivating an area of about 0.9 ha and with an average income of about RD
540,000. At full development in the year 1993/94 they are expected to
cultivate an area of about 2.5 ha in their houselot and LU I (cropping
intensity of 230%) and earn an income of about Rp 1.34 million in 1988
prices, with a return to their labour of RD 3,300 per man day. Because of
labour shortages, there is little prospect that the entire area (LU I arnd LU



- 8 -
II) can be planted. Comparison between SAR targets, achievements and PCR
estimates is as shown below:
Area Harvested (ha) of Major Crops
........ SAR              S .......  ....... PCR ..
Forecast       Forecast           Actual          Forecast
CrODs                            1990/91            1987/88         1992/93
Paddy              5,872          6,400              1,540           5,740
Maize                800            800                225             480
Soybean            1,600          2,240                 -               -
Groundnut            -              -                   80             430
Vegetables
(chilly)                          _                  332             500
Cassava              -              -                  185             410
Coconut              320            320                270             290
Banana               319            319                 60              60
Total              8.911         10,079              2,692           7,910
3.2      Compared with SAR, a wider range of crops  was  cultivated  by  the
settlers in order to alleviate labour constraints, spread risks and provide
ready cash. In the houselots, the settlers grew perennial trees (mainly
coconuts but also bananas, mango, citrus, coffee, jackfruit, guava) and
inter-planted with food crops such as maize, soybean, groundnut, cassava and
vegetables on raised bunds (sorjun). On the lowland, the cropping pattern is
paddy-paddy or paddy-plus-food crops (maize, soybeans, groundnut) where soil
moisture is inadequate for two crops of paddy. On houselots, paddy is
presently the dominant crop, accounting for about 75% of the total cropped
area followed by maize (10%), cassava (7%) and other food crops (8%). Paddy
is also the most important crop in LU I (60%), followed by maize (21%),
soybean  and groundnut (14%) and other food crops (5%). At full development,
paddy is expected to continue to be the most important crop, increasing in
total cultivated area in proportion to other annual crops in the field plots
but decreasing in the houselots.
3.3      Crop yields.  Yields of crops during the project period were  lower
than SAR estimates as Indicated below:
........... ... .... SAR ...............              .  .......PCR
Initial    ProJect      Full       Initial    Project       Full
Years   Completion  Develop.       Years   Completion  Develop.
Paddy  (t/ha)    1.0         1.9        2.4          0.6        1.2         2.3
Maize             0.6        1.1        1.2          0.5        0.9         1.3
Soybean   "       0.5       0.7         1.0          0.4         -           -
Groundnut "        -          -         -            0.5        0.7         1.2
Vegetables
(chilly) "        -         -          -            0.2        1.0         1.2
Cassava   "        -          -         -            8.3       11.5        13.3
Coconut          1,500        -        8,500         900         -         3,000
(nuts/ha)
Bananans           600        -        1,200         450         -         1,200
(bunches/ha)



- 9 -
Reasons for lox yields included low fertili:y of problem soils and use of
low rates of application of fertilizers, insecticides and rodenticides,
planting of local varieties (except wet land paddy), heavy damage by pests
and diseases, and poor cultural practices. Assumed yields of paddy, maize
and soybeans at full development would be about the same as appraisal
estimates, although yield increases from project completion until it reaches
maximum are expected to take a longer period because of the assumed slow
improvement of the problem soils and only slight increase in the rates of
input application.
3.4      Comparison  of  appraisal  and PCR estimates of production of major
crops is summarised below:
.............. SAR ..............   ..........       PCR .
Unit  (1987/88)  Full Development   Unit (1987/88) -Full DeveloPment
(Qty.)   (Year)                    (Qty.)   (Year)
Paddy   tons    11,310   15,300   1990/91   tons   1,119   13,202   2001/2
Maize     "        850       960   1990/91   tons       128      625   2001/2
Groundnut "         -        -         -      tons       56      516   2001/2
Soybean   "       1,170    2,240   1991/92   tons        -       -        -
Vegetables
(chilly)          -         -        -       tons     298       600  1993/94
Cassava   "        -         -        -       tons   1,819    5,453   2001/2
Coconut             101    2,721   1998/99   tons/      -        435  1998/89
('000 nuts)                                    copra
Banana             254       382   1990/91   tons      137       274  1992/93
('000 bunches)
3.5      Production of all crops is far below appraisal estimates and  takes
a longer period to reach maximum. At full development, the annual production
of paddy, the major crop, is forecast at only 13,200 tons compared with the
appraisal estimate of 15,300 tons.
Environmental Impact
3.6      The local environment has been changed by the  project  from  swamp
forest of limited benefit to man, to potentially cultivable agricultural
land capable of sustaining 3,000 or more farm families and contributing to
Indonesia's food supply. Impact studies carried out by the University of
Indonesia and Bandung Institute of Technology have not identified any
problems specific to the project area. As far as is known, the project area
did not include habitat for rare or endangered species of flora or fauna.
Soil surveys indicate that about 40% of the project area consists of
potentially acid-sulphate soils, which,  if  not  correctly  treated,  could
cause severe acidity thereby inhibiting cultivation. There is a risk that if
farmers are not correctly advised concerning the treatment of these soils,
substantial areas could be rendered infertile and go out of cultivation.
Economic Rate of Return
3.7      As discussed earlier, agricultural development has been much slower
than envisaged at appraisal. Consequently, the re-estimated economic rate of
return is only about 6% as compared to 13% calculated at appraisal. The
major difference between the SAR and PCR assumptions lies in the size of
area now being cultivated and the rate at which it will be developed in



- 10 -
future. The SAR assumed that settlers would develop the entire 2.25 ha farm
area by 1988/89, which is now clearly unattainable. To date only one-fourth
of LU I has been developed and no development has taken place in LU II which
is covered by re-grown forest. The area under cultivation per family is only
0.9 ha and the investment cost per hectare now under cultivation is
therefore  as  much  as  USS 7,600  (excluding   costs   for   studies   and
investigation), which explains the relatively low return. The PCR has
assumed that LU II would not be developed in the near future, taking into
account the financial capability of settlers and the shortage of labour In
the area. Based on interviews with farmers, the likely development would
consist of more intensified farming in the houselot and LU I. For the
purposes of recalculating the ERR, the PCR has assumed that the houselot and
LU I would be fully developed by 1993/94 (See Annex 2 for details).
ProJect Sustainability 
3.8      The sustainability of  the  project  will  greatly  depend  on  the
efficiency with which the drainage system is operated and maintained as well
as  on  appropriate  management  of  the  soils.  There  appear  to  be   no
difficulties for the next few years, as the sector loan will provide funds
and technical assistance for this purpose. If the necessary funds are not
made available after the loan closes, the system would rapidly deteriorate
in these soils. At present, GOI is committed to providing sufficient funds
for the operation and maintenance of the drainage system after the closing
of the loan. Farmers under each secondary canal are expected to operate the
control structure to suit their farming requirements but have not been
trained and organized to do so. Farmers' operations will aim at responding
to the different requirements of the areas, in the 'eaching of acid and
toxic soil elements and also using tidal irrigation where applicable. These
activities are completely new to the settlers and there is a need, not only
to train and organize, but also to supervise them at least in the initial
years.-
3.9      In  the absence of a strong extension service in swampland farming,
it is difficult to advise farmers on how to deal with their land. It is
important for the sustainability of the project to provide a specially
designed extension service staffed by well trained specialists and extension
workers in swampland farm'ng to advise farmers on appropriate cultivation
and farm management methods.
Borrowers' Performance
3.10     In  general,  the  overall performance of the implementing agencies
has been reasonably satisfactory, although weak coordination of their
activities has affected the progress of project implementation. The project
provided for three-level coordination - at the central level through a
project  coordinat,   in the Office of the Junior Minister of Transmigration
(JMT - later absorbed within MOT); at the regional (province) level through
a regional coordinator to be newly appointed by JMT; and at the field level
through a field coordinator to be appointed by P3S (then known as P4S). The
Directorate General of Transmigration (OGT) and PTPT were also expected to
appoint  site  managers  to  implement  and  supervise  land  clearing   and
construction of houses and village facilities respectively. Participation of
other supporting agencies (DGFCA, Ministries of Health and Education and the
Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs (OGA) was expected to take place
essentially under their normal development programme and no specific
organizational arrangement in the project has been proposed but they were
expected to be coordinated at the regional level. AARD was also entrusted to



- 1. -
Nindertake research but no specific date and staffing requirements were made
a priori.
3.11     During implementation, it became obvious that an exchange of  views
through regular periodic meetings was not taking place and thus the working
schedule of the implementing agencies was not clearly known to each other.
The supervision mission of January 1983 states that ..."the site coordinator
has very little information about the transmigration work schedule. The
position   is  not  much  different  even  at  regional  level".  This  weak
coordination,  particularly  at  the  critically  important  level  in   the
province, continued almost throughout the project implementation and was a
cause of concern for GOI and the Bank who both felt that there is a need to
overcome the problems of inter-agency coordination in the technically
complex task of reclaiming, developing and settling swamp lands. Consultants
are currently studying an alternative management structure for submission to
GOI.
3.12     An additional difficulty faced by  the  project  was  the  lack  of
adequate funds as the result of the overall GOI austerity measures. While
these measures have affected the GOI development programme as a whole, and
are thus not peculiar to the project, a well thought out re-allocation of
funds among the different components could have minimised the problems faced
by the project. For instance, a judicious re-allocation between construction
of houses and village facilities and the settlement of people would have led
to the construction of fewer houses and a comensurate lncrease in the
settlement of families, instead of leaving empty houses and cleared land
unutilised for long periods of time.
Bank Performance
3.13     The project was generally well conceived although critical  aspects
like agricultural development in the swamps, management and improvement of
problem soils, and specification of land clearing methods should have been
given much more attention in the planning stage.
3.14     The  activities  of  DGFCA,  particularly  in relation to soils and
water management and the training of farmers, should have been more clearly
specified in anticipation of the lack of experience of farmers in swampland
farming. The need for an early start for DGFCA work in the area appeared to
justify a dated covenant. In additlon, the loan agreement did not provide
Bank  financing  for  agricultural  support  services  such   as   for   the
establishment   and   operation  of  the  rural  extension  centre  and  for
agricultural research; although this was done towards  the  end  of  project
implementation. This has not facilitated the early start of the agricultural
support activities. To some  extent,  the  same  could  be  said  about  the
construction  of settler housing, community development and clearing of farm
plots for which no loan financing was foreseen.
3.15     Seven full supervision missions visited the project area during the
implementation of the project. Four of these missions were composed
exclusively of irrigation engineers. Overall, the supervision missions were
apt at identifying constraints faced by the project and settlers and at
pointing out the necessary remedies for the problems. This has led to the
preparation and implementation of the action programme which has, in part,
solved the problems.



- 12 -
IV.   CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
Conclusions
4.1      The  project  has successfully established a reasonably operational
drainage system, thus creating a potential for sustained agricultural
development in the swamps, which otherwise would not have been utilised.
However, it has failed to achieve the ambitious agricultural development
targets set at appraisal, due to lack of adequate agricultural support to
the settlers and inadequate land clearing, which called for a considerable
amount nf labour to develop the farms. As a first phase project, it has
demonstrated  the  complexity  of  developing  and   settling   farmers   in
swamplands, offering valuable lessons to be learned, some of which had
already been incorporated in the Swamps II Project.
Issues and Lessons Learned
4.2      Soils.  A detailed soil survey of the project area is necessary for
designing and operating an appropriate drainage system for controlled
leaching of acids and toxic elements as well as for preparing the necessary
extension messages and proper soil and water management practices.
4.3      Settlement  and  land  clearinq.   The   selection   of   settlers,
construction   of   houses  and  infrastructure  should  be  well-timed  and
coordinated to ensure that the settlers arrive at the project site
immediately and not long after land clearing. Houselots should be cleared of
all trees and stumps and be ready for planting by the settlers on arrival.
Full land clearing would enable the use of draught animals or pedestrian
tractors for ploughing of land, thus reducing initial labour shortages and
accelerating agricultural development. Clearing of forests in the field
plot, including a detailed soil survey and the construction of an internal
drainage system, could be undertaken after the arrival of the settlers but
should be completed when the settlers have planted the entire houselot area.
However, it is preferable that all trees above 20 cm diameter should be cut
to the desired level and removed, and cut trees, branches and undergrowth
cleared and burned or removed.
4.4      Farm  size.   A  farmer and his wife can only manage to cultivate a
net cropped area of about 0.7 ha in the houselot in the first two years of
settlement and subsequently an additional 1.0 ha for perennial trees, such
as coconut, mango, coffee and pineapples in the field plot. Full land
clearing of the LU I before the arrival of settlers should be avoided since
settlers would be busy developing their houselot for the initial years. The
field plots should be cleared when the settlers are ready to develop these
farms.
4.5      Pests and diseases.  Intensity of crop damage by pests and  disease
can be considerably reduced if cropping areas are isolated or separated from
forests or uncleared land, not only by a good and strong perimeter fence but
also by a deep trench (particularly to keep out pigs and wild animals), with
additional internal fences for blocks of cleared land. Fences and trenches
have to be maintained in good condition through the cooperative effcrt of
farmers. Coordinated rat control campaigns to search for and destroy
breeding places supplemented by baiting, dusting and synchronised planting
of paddy would need to be conducted every season in a coordinated manner. As
incentives for keeping their land clear of undergrowth, and burning or
removal of fallen tree trunks, and also participating in control measure



- 13 -
campaigns, adequate supplies of rodenticides could be given to participants
particularly in the first few years when settlers can ill-afford them.
4.6      Aaricultural support services.  In order to  provide  an  effective
extension service, the rural extension centre (REC) should be established in
the project area and provided with adequate and trained staff at project
commencement. There should be a full-time subject matter specialist trained
in soil and water management and control of pests and disease. Initial
production input packages should include adequate quantities of inputs and
delivered to settlers on time. Provision should be made by project
authorities for a storage depot and sales centre for production inputs to
service settlers who are no longer eligible for free packages, until such
time that these functions can be taken over by the private sector or farmer
cooperatives.
4.7      Based on findings in  areas  having  problem  soils  and  developed
earlier, adaptive trials and demonstrations should be conducted on farmers'
fields early in the project period in order to provide farmers with interim
recommendations concerning the rate of application of inputs.
4.8      Labour  shortaqe.   In  order to overcome the shortage of labour in
the area, trials for mechanisation of cultivation should be undertaken,
although this will depend on the quality of land clearing.
4.9      Hydraulic  infrastructure.    Prequalification   of   civil   works
contractors should be improved so that only experienced contractors with
adequate financial resources are invited to tender. Strict supervision by
consultants can result in quality improvement. When unsuitable swamp soils
contaminate surface water, adequate potable water supplies should be ensured
before settlement begins.
4.10     Coordination.    Project   implementation  suffered  from  lack  of
coordination among the implementating agencies. The three-level coordination
has not functioned effectively. To avoid similar difficulties, consideration
should be given to implementing future projects in swamp development under a
single management structure whereby the management has overall control over
the budget and the technical agencies implement their specific components on
agreed plans.



-15 -
Pase 1 of 3
INDONESIA
SWAMPS RECLAMATION I PROJECT
ProJect Implementation
,Unit ( . . . . Quantities . . . . )
SAR       Actual    Actual as
XPl`anned
HYDRAULIC INFRASTRUCTURE
Land clearing: Canals, base camp        ha     801          726         91
Earthworks:  - Canals, base camp        m3   2,425        2,380         79
On-farm wcrks           m3      604          -          -
Structures:  - Base camp                         1            1        100
- Bridges                 no.    112           111        99
- Jetties                  n      104           66        63
- Tidal control            u       1            94        -
structures
- Drain outlets            a      204           0         -
Consultants for Supervision:
Expatriate                              m-m      76          96        127
Local (including technical level)               504          508        84
SETTLEMENT
Pregaration:
(a) Land clearing:
-  Houseplots and village           ha   2,020        1,989         98
facilities
-  Farm plots                       ha   5,600        6,525 1/    150
(b) Buildings:
-  Houses                           no.  3,200        2,900         91
Settlement:
Mobillsatien and transport         settlers  2,800        2,489         89
Supplies and tools                    "       3,200       2,782         87
Subsistence                           "       3,200       2,782         87
Number of families settled            to      3,200       2,856         89
1/ Excluding reclearing.



-16 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
INDONESIA
SWAMPS RECLA4ATION I PROJECT
Project Costs
Appraisal                 Actual
Estimate              Expenditures
RD          US$         Rp             US$
mSl*ion        Iw       million         Om
1. Reclamation and site          11,414    18,263          9,150       8,694
preparation civil works
2. Settler relocation and         7,112    11,380          9,791       8,781
settlement
3. Consulting services            2,148      3,439         2,210       2,259
4. Agricultural support              87        140         1,743       1,291
S. Studies and investigation      5,053      8,086         6,566       7,758
6. Administration                 2,050      3,280         1,003       1,066
Total                         27,864    44,588         30,463      29,849
Project Financing
Source                            Planned                       Final
USs    -     (X)            USS   -   (X)
000 
IBRD                        22,000          49           18,132        61
GOI                         22,588          51           11,717         39
Economic Impact
Appraisal               PCR
Estimate              Estimate
Economic rate of return  (%)              13                    6
Underlying major assumptions
- Harvested area at full               10,000                7,900
development (ha)
- Commencement of production          1982/83               1983/84
- Year of full development            1989/90               1993/94
- Yield of paddy at full                2.43                  2.30
developi it (ton/ha)



-  17                           ANNU 
P aoe3 of 3
INDONESIA
SWAMPS RECLAMATION I PROJECT
Loan Covenants
Section      Description of Covenant       Deadline         Status
3.01 (b)     OGFCA and AARD to appoint    Not specified   In compliance
adequate staff to the
project
3.02         Appoint a Regional             12/31/81        In compliance
Coordinator
3.03 (a)     P3S and MOT to employ         03/31/81         In compliance
supervising engineers and
consultants for construc-
tion and block sub-division
3.03 (b)     MOT to employ management      03/31/82         In compliance
consultant
3.03 (c)     MOT to employ supervising    03/31/82          Earlier nade-
engineers for land clear-                      quate; now in
ing                                            compliance
3.03 (d)     P3S to employ consultants    01/31/82          In compliance
for various studies by
01/31/82
3.03 (e)     P3S to employ groundwater    03/31/82          Delayed but in
study consultants                              compliance
3.03 (f)     M and E consultants to be    10/31/84          Delayed but now
employed                                       In compliance
3.06 (a)     Each major implementing    P3S   03/31/81    In compliance
(b)(c)      agency to assign a site    PTPT  01/31/82
manager                     MOT   01/31/82
3.07         To construct staff-           Not specified    In compliance
health centres
3.08         Settlers to receive land    Not specified    Partial compliance
title
4.02 (b)     Accounts and audits        Six months after   Not in compliance
end of fiscal year
4.03/4.04    Operation and mainte-          05/31/84        Delayed but in
nance requirement for                          compliance
the canal systems



- 19 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 7
ItNDONESIA
SWAMPS RECLAMATION PROJFCT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Re-Estimated ERR
1.       An economic re-evaluation has been carried out for the  project  in
which incremental crop production from the reclaimed areas have been
considered as project benefits. Crop areas, Yields and Production are shown
in Paras 3.1, 3.3 and 3.4. The analysis has been carried out in 1987/88
prices, with past expenditures restated in 1987/88 terms by using general
consumer price index. <1t  Phased investment costs in current terms are given
in Table 1. All local costs have been brought to border prices using a
standard  conversion  factor of 0.8. Operation and maintenance costs for the
project infrastructure of RP2OO0O/ha/year have been included in the
analysis, after being adjusted by the standard conversion factor.
2.       Economic  prices  for rice, maize. groundnut, coconut, urea and TSP
have been derived from World Bank commodity price forecasts for 1990-2000
expressed in constant 1988 prices (Table 3). For other output and inputs,
1988 financial prices as shown in Table 4 have been used in the analysis
after being adjusted by the standard conversion factor of 0.8, except for
insecticide and rodenticide whose financial prices have not been adjusted.
3.       Based on  the  above  assumptions,  the  current  estimate  of  the
project's economic rate of return is about 6X (Table 5), which is lower than
that estimated at appraisal (13%). The main reasons for this difference are
slower pace of development and reduced area cultivated by settlers as
compared to what had been anticipated at appraisal (para 3.37). In addition,
the international prices of rice, the main crop, have substantially dropped
from the levels forecasted during project appraisal.



SWAMPS RECLaATION I PROJECT
Annual Casts In RD
1981102   02/83   83/84   64/86   66/86   86/81   87/l   86589               L
.......................... MP million.  ...........          .    ....
I. Rsclamation a Site Preotaratico
Civil --Wo.AA                                       2.       0. 
Land Clearn                                      221.3   217.0       6.4              23.6    -          -          474.3
(*mlrdraul ic:itr~  ~  ue
Land CbeaEgu tor Hoiuses & Parms          -        2J.0    4Z.6   Ibb.9   410.0 I.S32.1   451.6          -        3.219.2
fartis Works                                     453.2  .tl10.4   257.4    75.8   390.6   369.4    354.2    2.911.2
StCUC t ur'ea                             -       40.7    83.6       S.6   341.4   284.5, t.4S3.4                 2.19S.2
Las,u Conues.latiosa                    50.0       -        -        -       -        -       -         -           50.0
(tiigipmOdl 1                             -         _       4.0      J.0    08.1    90.S        4.2      -           174.4
Opeatics. I               .               -         -        -        -        .        -               126.0        126.0
taiIntenance
Sub Total                   50.0    ZL.B2 1.457Z6   932L.    301.i  2.301.5 2_27L.G    4I             9-taia           O
2. Settllar.
Seutes m e                                                315.9   6%3.2   601.1    79.6   191.2                   2.057.0
Village fac.Iities                        -         -      41.9   167.9    S6.5    39.S   J13.0          -        1.041.6
Ot)ads                                    _                3S.I   399.7   646.0 a.1S6.2   S05.7          -        2.702.?
Settlement &                              -        -      4S/.3 1.349.0   433.2   13.0 1.408.2           -        3.821.1
Suttbsstence
Staub soiten c                                             23.2    70.7    40.3    26.8    -                        169.0
Sub-Total                    _         _ -      3.4 2-40.9 1.8.3.  1.43$t.1 .LJL*Jl          -        g J9L94
3. C*nswaIt*iq_e4pvice%                                                             2.3      3.
Nydraulic Infrastrtucture                     *4S.i8  162.9   280.2   329.3    3S.0   248.0    103.2    I.574.4
Settlement                             _         _       12.0   IS1.1    56.6   174.1   239.4          -          635.8
$U - To to I                         415.8   114.9   431.3  )Il7.    202.7   407.4    103-2    LaLQG-2
4. LqaficuItehIal Sfjo.i.t                      -         -       lii       L.A   13a .    27LA   IL94. 3       -        1-742a
5. stasdieS a InSnltgaStiol                   2U.U   1764j130 L;I QS   @9fl3-  33a8A L.lliL         IAL.Z      ILSU     8 G..
6. AduinistrAtll.q
FHtAdraU lc  Eu.frau.tructure           -        0.0    20.0    20 0    20.0    20.0    17.0           -          tl7.0      0UMt 
SettlIeent                             _        87.2   165.1   261.6        1. I   108.0   183.2       -           86.2
SuO--Total                           ..107.2   IS.L    24j.6   So01.l_   12L.Q   200         - z.D.oe3.2             0
Grand Total                                 3.0    3.6 4.081.I b. 391.2 J,4a3.  64.g.L 7.361.6§   3S9.    J0.463.7



- 21                  -MN 2
Pagp 3 of 7
S * - ¢l ~~~~~~~Table 2
* o    ,         -,*.  
*  p         
N-                            0    -a
N  0    o N  0* N       WI _
ND..
*  -~~~~~~
e* --
fl ~ ~ M  -   0  Ve      0        
|~~~~~ NN  -                          2 
_  ~       N                                          *
:~~~~~~~~~ 0
00o         N  N   -'                  :
-~~       -0   *           *        
_~~ N
I~       ni *-   I                               I.0  | 1
_                                        0    t    



S(AS  RECLATR0S I PF;lOlECI
Fler_iatioa of Econolmic Prices
1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i- - lwrt Paritw .......                                   ........ .x..t.Pr.   ...... ....rlP
Thai 52 broken. f.o.b. Bangkok 1J             tDSItoo       260      240       293      299      USMton       260       240      293       299
quaility adjwsttet                               1051       -26       -24      -29       -30      lS          -26      -24       -29      -30
Freigit aad insurance                          USS/ton       *30      o30      +30       *30                     -        -         -
c.t.f_If.o.b. price Palembang                  USMiton      264       246      Z94       299     USsiton       234      216      264       269
Rpltg       436      406       485      493       2plkg       386       3S6      436       444
Tramsport to esholesa termlil                  Rp/lkg        oS        *55      #1        #5      01kg          -5       -5       -5        -5
Ex-will price                                   Rp/kg       4041      411      490       498                   301      351      431       439
Conversion to paddy                              65S       21        267      319       324       658         24S      228      280       2051
011119g costs less value of by-products                        a        0        1         0                     0        a         0        0              ti
lramsport paddy Kareng Agueg to whole-          'pikI       -to       -10      -1t -it            aplkg        -10      -16       -L0      -10
salertci Il
Economic farm gate price                        *plkg       271       2S7      309       314      Splhg        23       213       270      215
Average ir tlexpert                             IFikg                 m        2Q
f.o.b. Suit Port l1                           LoSs/ton       06        66      130       136     USiltoo       16        06      130       136
"*I1 ty adjustment                                             -        -        -         -       lOX          -9       -9      -13       -14
Freight and Insurance                          uSSlten      o2S       42S      #25       25                      -        -        -         -
c.If.It.{o.b. Palembang                       USSIton      1I1        1III     31s       161    LISSIto.       9         95      11t       122
Rpilg       163       183      251      266       39154       15P       15I      193       201
Transport to wholesaler                         Wlk          *5        +5       o5       S       Bpikg         -S       -S       -5        -S
Transmort garamg A9g  to wholesaler             41hkg       -18       -13      -13       -10      3,Ikg        -10      -1t      -10       -10
Econmic face late price                         AP1iI        179      lie      253       261      3,1II        153      153       188      196
Average toprtlexport                            19119       Az        Ml        S        i
Crni t oil price 1                             iitan         541      603      826       144
Ratis I_Aneslan Importigroun4aut oil
price (1912-U4)                               0.72         354      434      S94       536                                                            I.'
c.I.f. PaIemg                                   Upikg        650      716      96O       884
Transport to wolesaler                          3p/kg         *S       +5       *S        *S
Price on shell                                  0.10         459      5615     690       622
transport £armg AVw    to uolesaler             solkg       -10       -30      -1O       -10
[conomic tam  gate price (in sihell)            31kg         9        iN                 Ii



Ji.in                                                  JLlle a......                              .......                 .......
hAS    131   1              9        S       0        li   am    am   un   n
c.i.t. N1.V.  orope j3/                                                                            ISS/ton      361       3J9       456       43S
Freiglht and insurance                                                                             USItOD        -2S       -2S      -25       -25
f.o.b. Palemang                                                                                     SSito       336       354       431      413
Up/k9       SS4       SN         1li     Ge1
rransport to wholesaler                                                                             Bp/kg         -S       -S,       -S        -S
lransport to Karang Aguag                                                                           BP/kg        -to       -to      -1s       -to
Econmic farm gate price                                                                              w14                  lit h2              -
f.o.b. Europe 11                                                                                   US$/tUm       130      *9S        29      245             L
freight and iosrauce                                                                                SSMtOa       *IS       #IS      #IS       *15
Ex-factory Palembang                                                                               MSS/ton       14S      213       244      260
Up/kg       239       34U       403      429
Transport to ,Aolesaler                                                                             tpfks        OS        Os        Os .
Transport to Kara" Aguag                                                                            solkg       eEO        161      +16      a10
Ecosexic Carm gate price                                                                           Opikg                  s        sa        MS
f.e.b. O.S_ Gulf Port 1I                       UStrin        140       IS6       199      210
freight and tosaraoce                          USStM         #55       oSS      #SS       O5S
c.1i..  Palembang                              UiSSIton      195       211      2S4       265
QpJkq       322       348      419       437
rreanort to wfolesaler                          ROp/kg        #S        oS       °5        b5
Transport to Karcng atung                        Oplkg       #19       #l0      °16       Oti
Eco=m1ic fam gate price                         Rp/kg        1.1 1              gS        -W
II  Oosed an t*rld Bank Cocoicdity Price Projection of January 1968 eipressed In 1988 constent Prices uSingq Ra.wfacturicq Unit Value lndex.    m    |n>
0
0
:3 
rt



-ha
SMAMPS CLAM*TION I PrnLIILF
SuII!1e..f_F6iolacjla  &nd E£cnomic Prices lt  19t9 CoanSt&t PrIcaa
F f   I&                                      JLCSU   .1/
uftit  LUA                   #998       6220~JI   Janl       £2
.......................    R l n t ............................ p4t
Paddy                                  kg                   t50                  26         230         290        295
Maize                                  ki                   440                   1S7       067         221       2it
Groundnut (In shelI)                   kg                   500                  449        40S        6C0         612
Coconut (t <pra)                       kg                   S50                  539        509         696       666
Chi ul                                 kg                 2.500                2.000      2.0o0       2.000     2.000
Banana                                 kg                   10O                   SO         90          80         so ao
Cassava                                kg                    30                   24         24          24         24
Lemia3li
Seeds:       Paddy                     kg                   350                  280        280        280       240
matze                    kg                   2S0                   200       200        200        200
Croundnut                kg                 1.000                   800       go0        *00        600
Cacossue                 beednXut            1.600                1.200     1.200      1.200      1.200
Ch140ty                  kg                 6.000                4.000      4.000      4.000     4.000
Suckers:     *a.an,                    101) Stockers      2.500                2.000      2.000     2.000      2.000
Cutting:     Casuava                   led tuttings       2.000                t.600      1,S"0      1.600     t 600
Urea                                   9g                   IS0                  254        362        468       444
TSP                                   lk                    150                  331        363       434        452
ln5-Cticide                            It                 2.SO0               10.000    10.000    10.0*0    10.000
Rdenticide                              g9                  600                  800 0o00              000       800
L-bo"e                                 .d                 2.500                2.000      2.000      2.000     2.000
1/ flenancial pr ceb of note t-aded commodities have been adjuated by a coivSrsifon factor of 0.0.



- 25 -                                               m2
Pa8e 7 of 7
Table 5
,.m: a
HE 3.3
.. . ZS
:2: 
.U   E *   *i -:
.C * - Vs
.    0.
.  ,* .2   * * 
C-: .* ' . 4t A
.S' - * *  0 9ff  3* a;
.4.. ,        C 
3-.  * .    C. 
a-      .*. e 4 e 4
. .~~~.
C'           .O
* .     g    4
:    I
.. :    i e^* 



- 27 -                 ATTACHMENT 1
Page 1
REPUBLIK INDONESIA
DEPARTEMEN PEKERJAAN UMUM
DIREKTORAT JENDERAL PENGAIRAN
II^    DIREKTORAT BINA PROGRAM PENGAIRAN
JALAN PATTIMURA NO. 20/PERC. 7 TILP. 73661613 saIurani P.O. BOX 2731 KOY. - KEBAYORAN BAW
JAKARTA
Alnet kt; DITJEN AIR
Our Ref    : OLak@     / A0yor         Jakarta, March 30 ,1989
Attachment :1 expl
Mr.Graham Donaldson
;7    Division Chief*Agriculture,
Infrastructure and Human Resources
Operations Evaluation Departement
World Bank
Subject : Indonesian Swamp Reclamation I Project (Loan 1958-
IND) Project Completion Report
Dear Mr.Donaldson
In accordance with your letter in February 9th,1989,
related to Indonesia Swamp Reclamation I Project (Loan 1958-
IND), on behalf of Director General of Water Resources
Development we herewith send DGWRD comments as stated in my
letter dated September 26, 1988 No.HL 0101/AP/999 (see
attachment).
With bes-; regard
Directorate               ter Resources Development
D     or of      ning & Programming
c   r. Rach    o %o    osaputro
cc.
I.Director General of  ta#OEIb erces Development
2.Ass.Director General forter Resources Development.
3.Director of Swamp
4.Chief Subdit. of FAA-DPP.
5.Chief Subdit. of Project Evaluation-DPP
6.Chief Subdit. of CANTEK Dit. of Swamp
7.Chief Subdit. of BINLAK Barat Dit. of Swamp
8.RSI Jakarta.
9.File.



- 28 -                       ATTACHMENT 1
Page 2
IBLIK INDONESIA
DEPARTEMEN PEKERJAAN UMUM
DIREKTORAT JENDERAL PENGAIRAN
DIREKTORAT BINA PROGRAM PENGAIRAN
JALAN PATTIMURA NO. 201PERC. 7 TILP. 738616 Q salurenI TEAOMOL POS 39/KSYT - KEIAYORAN BARU
JAKARTA
Alamas Kewal: DITJEN AIR
Our Ref       :        1-VI
Attachment      I copy.
Mr. Hans  A.H. Dall                                  Jakarta, 26 Septemeber. 1988-
FAO Representative
Jl. M.H. Thamrin 14
P.O. BOX 2338
J a k a r t a
Subject         Conment on the draft of PCR Swamps-Reclamation I
P roject.
Dear Mr. lYall,
With reference to the clraft of PCIR of Swamp - Reclamation Project
prepared by Lhe FAO - Ci' Team, we would like herewith, to forward  our
conunents as attached.
With best regards,                                       /
/  ,       s ~~j,g incerely,
!~    ~~ -r -v    aridjo.::  tosapu,
Director of Planuing & Progranming,DGWRD.
C.C.   1. Director of Swamp-UGWRD)
2. Director of Plaining Bureou-wKr
3. I: i 1 e.
--  - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - -



- 29 -                      ATTACUKENT 1
Pe  3
COMMIENT ON DRAFT PCR
SWAMPS RECLAMATION I PRWECT
1. I'lTe report was concisely writteni, mucih shorter than the similar PCR written
so far. We would like to know whether such a format is reflecting the new
guideline of PCR implosed by the Bank. tlowever, the necessary calculation ta-
bles whlich explain the result of economic analyses are still deemed necessa-
ry, unless for a special reason they are omitted.
2. PYra 2.5. explained, there will be a continuing requirement for excavation
to maintain the caials, whiclh conseetently increasing the O&M cost. It is
doubtful whether the stated O&M cost of Rp 20,000/ha/year at para 2.7.  is
adeq'uate to cover suclh a large maintenance work. We agree that adeq:uate main-
tenance will be crtucial for the future development of the project, thereby
underlining the need to have an adee,uate O&M cost.
3. Refer to table of area harvested pg 8, under SAt's heading, actual 1987/88.
Actual shotuld be forecast as it indicates thie estimnate at the time of SAR.
Why the time of ftull development for area harvested (1992/93) and crop pro-
dulctionI (2001/2 e.g. for paddy) are different ? Is it indicating longer
period required for yield development ? Please indicates the specific time
in whichi yields achieve full development.
4. one iinporLant asslunJ)Lion tused for economiiic anialyses e.g. p!,   assumption
is not mentioned in Llhe report. I'lease also described.
---- 000----
Notes by Retlo :
Regarding the Borrower's comments in pares. 1 and 4, the PCR now
includes the details of the economic analysis, Which are presented in
Annew 2.
Regarding the Borrower's comments in para. 2, see footnote to par&.
2.7.
Regarding the Borrower's comments in par&. 3 on pace of agricultural
development, the discussion in the PCR'e paras. 2.08 to 2.14 and 3.1
to 3.5 indicate that  full  development  of  yield trtential will take
considerably longer than full development of land for cropping.



