Document of
The World Bank
FlOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                FILE COPY
Report No. P-2974-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SWAMP RECLAMATION PROJECT
March 2, 1981
This document has a restricted distrbution and may be used by reciplents only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00           = Rp 625
Rp 100            = US$0.160
Rp 1 million (M)  = US$1,600
ABBREVIATIONS
DGA       -  Directorate General Agrarian Affairs, Ministry of Home Affairs
DGCK      - Directorate General of Cipta Karya, (Housing, Urban and
Regional Development), Ministry of Public Works
DGFCA     - Directorate General of Food Crops, Agriculture, Ministry of
Agriculture
DGT       - Directorate General of Transmigration, Ministry of Manpower
and Transmigration
DPU       -  Departmen Pekerjaan Umum Dan Tenaga Listrik (Public Works),
Ministry of Public Works
GOI       -  Government of Indonesia
IGGI      -  Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia
JMT       -  Junior Minister for Transmigration
MPW       - Ministry of Public Works
ODA       -  Official Development Assistance
O&M       -  Operation and Maintenance
P4S       - Proyek Pembukaan Persawaban Pasang Surut (Project Unit for
Tidal Swamp Reclamation), Ministry of Public Works
PTPT      -  Penyiapatan Tanah Pemukiman Transmigrasi (Land Preparation
for Transmigration Settlement), Ministry of Public Works
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SWAMP RECLAMATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            $22 million equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 9.6% p.a.
Project
Description:    The proposed project would assist the Government s effort
to reclaim and settle swamps by implementing a 9,000 ha
swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang Agung,
South Sumatra. It would mark the Bank-s first assistance
in the Government's ongoing swamp reclamation program.
In addition to physical works, the project would comprise
the preparation of future swamp investments, an ecological
impact study, an investigation of groundwater for drinking
and project monitoring. The project would benefit some
3,200 families from Java, Bali and from the region, whose
incomes are below the critical consumption level, and would
increase rice production by about 16,000 tons per year in
1991. The main risk is a slow build-up of agricultural
benefits which could result from poor water management and
from slow implementation, but measures to minimize the risk
are included in the proposed project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:    The following table summarizes the estimated project
costs.
Local    Foreign    Total
------- …(Tmion) -----
Reclamation and
site preparation /1               5.3        7.0        12.3
Settlers relocation
and settlement                    5.2        2.4         7.6
Consulting Services and
Agricultural Support              1.5        1.0         2.5
Studies and investigations          2.7        3.4         6.1
Administration                       2.2        -          2.2
Base Costs                     16.9       13.8        30.7
Physical contingencies              2.5        2.1         4.6
Price contingencies                 6.3        3.0         9.3
Total project costs           25.7       18.9        44.6
Financing Plan:      Bank                                 3.1       18.9        22.0
Government                         22.6         -         22.6
Total                         25.7       18.9        44.6
Estimated            Bank FY              1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Disbursements:
Annual               1.2      4.8      4.0     4.0      8.0
Cumulative           1.2      6.0    10.0    14.0    22.0
Rate of Return:      13% on the reclamation aLLd settlement components
(representing 75% of project costs).
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3065a-IND dated February 23, 1981.
/1 Costs for this component include 5% taxes on civil works.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A SWAMP RECLAMATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $22 million to help
finance a Swamp Reclamation Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including five years of grace, with interest at 9.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An
updating country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and
Short-Run Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors early last year.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000
islands covering a land area in excess of two million sq km. With an esti-
mated population of over 136 million people, it is the world's fifth most
populous nation. The population density exceeds 650 persons per sq km in
Java, where 65% of the population live, but averages less than 30 persons per
sq km in the rest of the country. Over 80% of the population live in rural
areas; and although agriculture only accounts for approximately 30% of GDP,
about 62% of total employment is still found in the agricultural sector. GNP
per capita is estimated at $380.
4.        Over the last 13 years, Indonesia's economic, social and institu-
tional development has surpassed that of most other heavily populated, poor
countries. Although the new government in 1966 inherited a severely
dislocated and bankrupt economy, it rapidly brought hyperinflation under
control, established full convertibility of the currency and regained the
confidence of western creditors. During the First Development Plan period,
Repelita I (1969/70 to 1973/74), a major rehabilitation of the neglected
infrastructure was initiated, the investment rate was doubled to 18% of GDP
and an average real GDP growth rate of over 9% p.a. was achieved. During
Repelita II (1974/75 to 1978/79), economic activity was fueled by a dramatic
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Tenth Power
Project (No. P-2949-IND), circulated under cover of R81-13,
dated February 4, 1981, and approved by the Executive Directors on
February 24, 1981.



- 2 -
increase in foreign exchange resources resulting from the world commodity
boom, the quadrupling of oil prices and expanded public and private foreign
capital inflows. Net oil exports increased from $640 million in 1973 to
nearly $7.0 billion /1 in 1979, which enabled real Government of Indonesia
(GOI) expenditure to increase by 20% annually and encouraged a 7% average
annual GDP growth rate. Not all sectors have shared in this growth. In
particular, the performance of nonextractive exports, with some exceptions,
such as coffee and palm oil, has been disappointing; rubber exports, for
example, have stagnated since 1971, and manufactured exports are only now
giving any indication of sustained growth. In addition, there has been little
evidence, despite increased foreign exchange resources, that the post-oil
future of the economy has been assured through a broad-based expansion of the
industrial sector.
Social Developments
5.        While there is general agreement that overall growth in the economy
- an annual rate of almost 8% over ten years /2 - has been impressive, views
diverge on the degree to which the poor have shared in this increased income.
The National Household Surveys for 1970 and 1976 indicate that, while overall
income disparities almost certainly widened between those two dates, there was
nevertheless a considerable improvement in the consumption of all income
groups, with real consumption expenditure of the bottom 40% of the population
probably increasing at between 3.5% and 5.5% annually. Growth in per capita
income was generally higher in Java than in the Other Islands and higher in
urban than in rural areas.
6.        Employment growth has been rapid in the 1970s (an average of 4.7%
p.a. between 1971 and 1976, compared with a total population growth of about
2%). However, it is likely that there has been a slight increase in the level
of open unemployment due to a greater rate of growth of working age population
than of total population and to increased participation rates (50% in
September 1971, 55% in October 1976). Most (54%) of the increased employment
during this period was absorbed in nonagricultural activities, resulting in a
decline in the share of agricultural employment from 66% to 62%. Within the
nonagricultural sector, employment increases largely resulted from proliferat-
ing small-scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors, where
productivity is generally extremely low.
7.        GOI-sponsored programs deserve at least part of the credit for many
of the major advances of the last decade. In particular, the rice
intensification schemes and GOI-s public works programs have demonstrated
GOI-s capacity to marshal resources in pursuit of its social goals. Between
1971/72 and 1976/77 real expenditures increased at an annual average rate of
37% on health and family planning, 45% on education, and 31% on housing and
/1 Includes Liquified Natural Gas ($225 million).
/2 Gross Domestic Income grew even faster, at about 9.5% p.a., due to
improvements in the terms of trade.



water supply, resulting in the rapid development of social infrastructure.
For example, Indonesia's health centers, which totalled 1,058 in 1969, were
increased to 4,029 by 1977; between 1973 and 1978, 31,000 primary schools were
constructed and primary school enrollment reached 85% in 1979, up from 60% in
1974. Perhaps the most significant achievement of the First and Second
Development Plans has been the success of the National Family Planning
Program, established in 1970, in reducing the overall population growth rate.
Fertility rates have fallen by almost 20% on Java and Bali, where some 37% of
married women in the reproductive age group are practicing modern methods of
contraception.
8.        Despite these advances, however, the magnitude of the poverty pro-
blem and the inadequacy of basic public services remain overwhelming. In
1976, an estimated 50 million people, over one-third of Indonesia's total
population, spent less than $90 a year (at 1976 prices and exchange rate) and
a large proportion of the labor force was seriously underemployed in both
rural and urban areas. Moreover, the continued prevalence of numerous
debilitating diseases, which often stem directly from nutritional deficiencies
and unsanitary living conditions, results in extremely low life expectancy at
birth and a very high infant mortality rate. Life expectancy at birth in
Indonesia is only 48 years (most recent estimate) compared with 60 years in
the Philippines and 67 years in Malaysia. For the same countries, infant
mortality rates are respectively 126, 65 and 35 per thousand. Every year in
Indonesia approximately 600,000 infants die before attaining the age of one
year. These statistics reflect both low incomes, inadequate nutrition and the
underlying inadequacy of basic public services. Over 100 million Indonesians
remain without access to safe water or sanitary facilities; there are only 6
physicians and 6 nurses per 100,000 of the population; and almost 40% of the
adult population is illiterate.
Development Strategy in the Nonoil Economy
9.        The rehabilitation of infrastructure which has made possible the
impressive growth rate over the last decade and which has underpinned past
development policy must now give way to a new strategy as the task of
rehabilitation is now essentially completed. GOI has recognized this in
preparing its Third Development Plan, Repelita III (1979/80 to 1983/84).
Three primary goals have been specified: a more equitable distribution of the
benefits of growth, a sustained high growth rate, and national stability. A
high priority must now be given to the industrial sector since neither
agriculture nor services can be expected to absorb the large projected
increases in the labor force (1.4 million p.a. up to the year 2000) and
simultaneously ensure rising real wage rates.
10.       The prospects for an outward-looking labor-intensive industrial
development have been im3roved by a number of GOI policy decisions. The most
dramatic of these was the devaluation of the rupiah from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per
US dollar on November 15, 1978. Its purpose was to reverse some of the
adverse relative price changes in the economy that had occurred earlier in the
decade and thus encourage a shift of resources away from the nontraded goods
sector towards labor-intensive import-substitution and export industries.



In support of the aims of Repelita III and the devaluation, GOI has also
simplified the investment licensing process and exporting procedures and
introduced a system of export certificates - tax rebates - to encourage
exporters. A new corporation tax law was promulgated in March 1979 providing
greater incentives to entrepreneurs, particularly those in smaller-scale
ventures and those using the services of a public accountant. On the monetary
side a start has been made in making the commercial banking system more
responsive to the needs of small-scale enterprises.
11.       A detailed industrial development strategy has not yet been articu-
lated, although the Repelita III document acknowledges that private invest-
ment will be relied upon as the primary means of industrial job creation.
Despite the improvements outlined above, it is not yet clear that private
entrepreneurs will be able or willing to invest sufficiently in those
sectors most conducive to job creation and income growth. In particular
there are two issues that require urgent attention. First, although some
improvements have been made, many entrepreneurs still complain about cumber-
some administrative procedures and controls associated with the highly
centralized government bureaucracy. Second, the high level of effective
protection, which has increased over the last year, may encourage the
misallocation of scarce capital and managerial resources.  Indonesia's
potential for manufactured exports is considerable but it is unlikely that
these exports will ever provide the stimulus to growth that has been enjoyed
by other smaller East Asian countries. In the medium term it is more likely
that Indonesia's "engine of growth" will be its own large domestic market.
However, it is important that barriers to trade be reduced in order to
provide appropriate market signals and to encourage those sectors in which
a genuine comparative advantage exists. The formal tariff structure is
probably less significant than the high administrative costs and delays
associated with importing. The important improvements made in exporting
procedures over the last year have demonstrated that rapid changes can be made
in this area. Similar advances on the import side would improve resource
allocation by reducing the proliferation of domestic industries that have
little prospect of ever attaining international competitiveness. In many
countries devaluation has been accompanied by a rationalization of the tariff
structure. Although this has not yet occurred in Indonesia, the recent
increases in oil revenues have, by substantially increasing foreign exchange
reserves, provided an additional opportunity.
Short-Run Stability and Long-Run Development
12.       Medium-term prospects for the balance of payments and GOI
budget have improved fundamentally in recent months. Three factors, the
devaluation, an improvement in the nonoil terms of trade, and the oil price
rise, have been responsible. The effect of the devaluation on the external
accounts is still not clear although there is some evidence of significant
supply-side response in some sectors. The improvement in the balance of
payments that followed immediately after November 1978 was due less to the
devaluation than to favorable developments in the world prices of



- 5 -
primary commodities./I As a result, Indonesia achieved a current account
surplus of $2.0 billion in 1979/80. The most important factor was the
increase in the export price of crude oil to $32 per barrel in January 1980.
Net export earnings from oil and liquified natural gas rose from $4.0 billion
in 1978/79 to $6.9 billion in 1979/80 and are expected to be $10.7 billion in
1980/81. Budget revenues have also benefitted from these developments. Since
over half of GOI's revenues were denominated in foreign exchange, an immediate
effect of the devaluation was to dramatically increase budgetary revenues in
terms of rupiah. As a result of the oil price increases, budget revenues from
oil and liquified natural gas rose from $4.7 billion in 1978/79 to $6.8
billion in 1979/80 and are expected to rise to $11.2 billion in 1980/81.
13.       These favorable developments, while clearly presenting a valuable
opportunity to undertake development programs and stimulate private industrial
enterprise, may also present serious problems of short-run price and monetary
stability. This potential conflict could be seen, for example, in the mea-
sures taken by GOI to ameliorate the inflationary effects of the devaluation,
which, while successful in keeping prices under control, sometimes tended to
counteract the desired effects of the devaluation. Notable here was the tight
control exerted over private sector credit creation which may have limited
investment in those export sectors that the devaluation was designed to
encourage. In addition, the increased foreign exchange revenue presents
potentially difficult problems of monetary management. The manner in which
Indonesia increases its capacity to absorb imports effectively will be a
primary determinant of Indonesia's future growth prospects.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
14.       In the immediate future, the availability of foreign exchange will
not be a constraint on development due to the increase in export revenues and
the consequent improvement in creditworthiness. (In 1979 Indonesia-s debt-
service ratio fell from 18% to 16%)./2 In the medium and long run, however,
the situation is less clear, due to uncertainty about how quickly Indonesia
will be able to absorb its sudden increase in wealth, and because projections
of future export revenues remain highly speculative. It is therefore impor-
tant that increased efforts be made to mobi-lize domestic financial resources.
GOI's concern with this issue is demonstrated by its stated intention of
eliminating budget subsidies on consumer goods. To this end, domestic prices
of all oil products were increased by an average of about 40% in April and May
1979, although the budget savings have since been nullified by increases in
international prices. On May 1, 1980, GOI therefore raised domestic oil
prices by a further 50%, and this partially compensated for increases in
international prices of oil. There is considerable scope for improving the
nonoil tax base, which accounts for less than 45% of total revenues. For
example, taxes on personal and business incomes amount to only 3% of GNP,
/1  The nonoil terms of trade improved by 42% between October 1978 and
July 1979.
/2  Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



-6 -
and taxes on consumption, 2.5% of GNP. Expanding the tax base, eliminating
loopholes, and improving administration, are the obvious aeans of securing a
larger and more equitable tax burden.  The mobilization of private sector
financial resources is hindered at present by the absence of attractive
long-term financial instruments, but GOI's encouragement of the fledgling
Jakarta Stock Exchange will hopefully result in an important source of
domestic funds in the medium term.
15.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) remains the prin-
cipal source of external capital, including Official Development Assistance
(ODA), to the country. The Bank's 1979 basic economic report on Indonesia
recommended that total ODA reach at least $1.93 billion in 1979, of which at
least 70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. This
recommendation was achieved. The Bank's economic memorandum on Indonesia
(dated February 20, 1980) recommended a level of assistance of $2.1 billion
for 1980, which would represent no increase in real terms over the
recommended and actual amount of ODA for 1979. At the meeting of the IGGI
in May 1980, the indication of probable commitments in 1980 made by
bilateral and multilateral IGGI members amounted to almost this level.
16.       In the past selective local cost financing of projects has been
recommended since it was estimated that financing only the foreign exchange
cost of projects would not suffice to meet Indonesia's long-term capital
requirements. Since Indonesia's foreign exchange position has now improved,
local cost financing will, in the future, be limited to projects of key
importance and where such financing is required to ensure a significant Bank
contribution.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
17.       As of January 31, 1981, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 53 Bank loans amounting to $3,147.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $132.5 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1979
was about 9.5%, and the share of debt service about 4.8%. Annex II contains
a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of November 30,
1980, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       During Repelita I, and in line with the objectives of this First
Plan,, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was directed toward the
rehabilitation of deteriorated infrastructure and production facilities,
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Tenth Power
Project (No. P-2949-IND), circulated under cover of R81-13, dated
February 4, 1981, and approved by the Executive Directors on February 24,
1981.



- 7 -
meeting the critical shortage of skilled manpower, and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. As the focus of
GOI's policy shifted during Repelita II towards expansion of productive
capacity in the agriculture, transportation and power sectors, as well as
improvement in the quality and delivery of basic public services, the thrust
of our lending changed to focus on these objectives. Given the critical
importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food
security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group-supported projects have
been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to
virtually all other sectors of the economy, including fertilizer production
and distribution, transportation, education, urban development, water
supply, rural development, nutrition, industrial development financing
(including small industry development), power, telecommunications, popula-
tion and technical assistance.
19.        Indonesia is currently in the process of implementing its Third
Five-Year Plan, Repelita III. As noted in Part I above, this document,
while stressing the need for continued high growth and stability, departs
from previous Plans by placing special emphasis on income distribution and
poverty alleviation. This focus, which is fully in line with the conclusions
of the basic economic report, in turn requires greater attention to
employment generation and improvements in basic public services. While
GOI-s agricultural programs are expected to generate significant employment
opportunities, the long-term solution to Indonesia's employment problem is
particularly dependent on the articulation and implementation of a coherent
labor-intensive industrialization strategy. To support this effort the Bank
plans to significantly expand its hitherto modest involvement in this
sector. As part of this initiative, an operation designed to support
several industrial DFCs through an umbrella institution (most probably Bank
Indonesia) is at an advanced stage of preparation, and projects to support
export processing zones, and to further expand Bank assistance to
small-scale enterprises are at various stages of identification and
preparation. A comprehensive program of economic work in the industrial
sector is underway to provide the necessary understandings for this expanded
operation.
20.       Outside industry, no major shifts in the balance of Bank lending
are expected. Given the importance of rice production, irrigation will
continue to absorb a substantial portion of Bank agricultural lending;
however, the Bank also plans to take further initiatives to promote
secondary food crops. Continued support for the provision of basic services
(population, education, health, nutrition, urban development and water
supply) as well as the traditional sectors (power and transport) is also
anticipated. Since it ir clear that the achievement of GOI-s employment and
equity objectives will lecome increasingly dependent on the development of
appropriate sectoral policy packages and strategies, institutions, and staff
development, it is expected that the focus of the above operations will



-8-
gradually broaden to a subsector and sector approach. The proposed sectoral
approach is designed to enable Bank assistance to be responsive to these
demands, and to continue its institution-building efforts in a broader
context than has been done hitherto.
21.       Both the Bank and GOI have become increasingly concerned about the
level of disbursements, which has shown a declining trend in the past three
years. Many of the problems appear to be related to GOI's cumbersome
budgetary, procurement and payment procedures, including issuance of tender
documents and opening of letters of credit. These problems are further
compounded by the severe shortages of both managerial and technical
manpower. A number of steps have been taken by GOI and the Bank to address
these issues. Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to
analyze the problems and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and
financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and
regular joint review procedures to identify general and project-specific
problems and work out corrective measures. The first of these reviews was
held in June 1979 and a second, more comprehensive one, in September 1980.
In addition, a procurement seminar was held in Jakarta in September 1979.
As a consequence of these joint initiatives, over the past few months GOI
announced several measures to streamline the more complex budgetary and
financial procedures affecting project implementation. Finally, to reduce
initial project implementation difficulties, many operations are now being
presented for Board consideration at a later stage in the project cycle.
While it is still too early to assess the effect of these steps on project
implementation, the indications are that improvements are now taking place.
This was reflected in an increase in disbursements from $206.8 million in
FY79 to $277.8 million in FY80; considerably higher disbursements are
projected in FY81 (if the performance of the first six months of the fiscal
year continues, disbursements for FY81 will exceed $400 million).
22.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country-s improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of
payments position, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
23.       The proposed project constitutes the fourth lending operation
presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Previously approved
loans include the Smallholder Coconut Development, and University Development
and Tenth Power projects. Projects under advanced stage of preparation and
appraisal include the fourth urban, Jakarta Cikampek highway, the second
small enterprise development, the fifth nucleus estates and smallholders,
Bukit Asam mining and the second seeds projects.



- 9 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
24.       Objectives.  GOI's major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise incomes of the rural
poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising demand; (c)
expand agricultural exports particularly smallholder tree crops; and (d)
ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia-s varied land, water and other
natural resources.
25.       Role and Performance.  Despite a 4% average annual growth of
production, agriculture's share of GDP has declined from 40% to 30% since
1968, while its share of exports dropped from 45% to 33% due mainly to the
markedly increased value of oil exports. Nevertheless, the agricultural and
rural sector remains of overwhelming importance to the great majority of
Indonesians; nearly 80% of the population lives in rural areas, and agricul-
ture is the major source of income for about two-thirds of rural households
and one-tenth of urban households. Some 15.6 million smallholder families
produce subsistence and cash crops on 15.8 million ha, while 1,800 estates
occupying 2.2 million ha produce mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil, and
tobacco.
26.       Employment.  Agriculture's share of total employment decreased
from 69% in 1961 to 64% in September 1971, while in 1976 it ranged between
66% in March and 60% in October./l Nevertheless, agriculture remained by
far the largest single source (with 46%) of new employment during 1971-76.
Outside Java, employment prospects in agriculture appear quite promising,
given the sustained increases in the smallholder area, due to land reclamation
and irrigation development, including both GOI-sponsored and spontaneous
transmigration. In Java, rehabilitation of irrigation systems, which
generated significant employment in the last decade, should continue to
provide additional construction and farm work.
27.       Food Crops.  Given its limited manpower and financial resources, GOI
has concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the preferred staple
food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production increased rapidly
(4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irrigation rehabilitation
and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fertilizer and high-yielding
variety seed, financed largely through the GOI credit program. The growth
rate slowed markedly to 1.7% p.a. over 1974-77, in the wake of severe
declines in fertilizer usage (due to restrictions on private sector fertilizer
trade), successive seasons of untimely rainfall, and unprecedented attacks by
/1 The share of agricultural employment in March ranged between 63% in Java
and 72% in the Other Islands. The corresponding figures in October were
57% and 66% respectively. The seasonal differences represented a drop of
6.7 million workers in agricultural employment.



- 10 -
pests and diseases, principally the brown plant hopper and associated
viruses. In 1978 rice production increased by 10% with favorable weather,
improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution, and nationwide
GOI-sponsored distribution of recently introduced pest resistant varieties;
in 1979 it increased only 2% due to insufficient rainfall but in 1980 a
record rice crop of almost 20 million tons has been estimated. Over the
past decade, output of secondary food crops (maize, cassava, soybeans,
peanuts, and sweet potatoes) grew more slowly, at an average of only 1.6%
p.a., composed of a 1.1% p.a. average decline in area (much of this land
shifting to irrigated rice) and a 2.7% p.a. increase in yield. These gains
in food output did not keep pace with the 3.5-4.0% p.a. increase in demand
due to rising population and incomes. Indonesia became the world's largest
rice importer, with a record import of 2.3 million tons in 1977, about 1.3
million tons in 1978 and about 2 million tons in 1979 and 1980.
Simultaneously, wheat imports rose to 1.4 million tons in 1978, but are
estimated to have dropped in 1979 and 1980; cassava exports nearly
disappeared, and soybean, maize, and coconut oil imports began to grow. The
report "Indonesia: Supply Prospects for Major Food Crops" (No.  2374-IND of
March 3, 1979) concluded that even with expanded irrigation, and improved
technology, extension, credit and marketing, food production growth would
not exceed 3.5% p.a., leaving a basic food deficit up to at least 1990, of
which a rice deficit alone would be 2-3 million tons.
28.        To prevent a widening food production consumption gap, productivity
and area under rice and secondary food crops must be increased. In Java,
rice-cropping intensity could be raised through storage and irrigation pro-
jects although relocation of inhabitants of reservoir sites may delay pro-
gress. Yields and cropping intensity can also be increased by constructing
tertiary irrigation and drainage systems, developing groundwater potential
and improving support services. In the Other Islands there is considerable
potential for new irrigation and swamp reclamation and development schemes
which GOI is attempting to develop. Despite a scarcity of highyielding
varieties of secondary food crops, yields of existing varieties could be
increased by improved husbandry, including fertilizers and insecticides.
GOI is just beginning to give serious attention to marketing, credit, seeds
and research aimed at varietal improvement of secondary crops. Although the
Government has guaranteed the rice price for years, support prices for
secondary crops have just recently been introduced.
29.        Tree Crops.  GOI has embarked on a major effort to develop
smallholder tree crops outside Java as part of its national rubber and
coconut replanting transmigration programs. The objective is to improve
production on existing plantations while developing large areas of new land
for settlement. One of GOI-s main approaches has been to use public estate
companies to plant tree crops on land to be settled by local landless
families as well as by transmigrants. These companies clear the land and
provide settlers with planting material, other inputs, processing and
marketing facilities. This approach is appropriate in view of constraining
management and technical capabilities.



- 11 -
30.       Area Development and Transmigration.  In 1978, about 85 million
people lived in Java, at a density approaching 650 persons/sq km. The island,
with 7% of Indonesia's land area, has 45% of the cropped area and 63% of the
population. Java generally has more fertile soils and better infrastructure
than the Other Islands; however, its cultivable land is almost fully utilized.
In some watersheds where cultivation already exceeds ecologically safe limits,
contributing to increasing erosion, flooding, and siltation of reservoirs,
irrigation canals and ports, GOI is preparing integrated watershed
development projects to address this problem. The primary program for new
area development in the Other Islands, as well as for creating employment and
settlement nuclei for Javanese migrants, is transmigration. An organized
transmigration program is important for regional and natural resource
development in the Other Islands, production of food and export crops, and
creation of employment and decent living conditions for landless Javanese.
Unfortunately, this program has long been hampered by unrealistic expectations
of its potential for resolving Java's population problems and for stimulating
large-scale regional development, by overly ambitious targets, and by weak,
uncoordinated implementation. Confronted by management problems, GOI
reorganized the program in preparation for Repelita III, by transferring
implementation responsibility from the Directorate General of Transmigration
(DGT) to line agencies normally responsible for each sector. This measure
needs to be complemented by continued attention to technical and policy
issues including (a) the suitability of the land for food crops; (b) the
role of tree crops and livestock; (c) appropriate target incomes and farm
sizes; (d) the extent of GOI financial, marketing and other services to
settlers; and (e) the role of spontaneous migration. Coordination of
implementation of the program rests with the Junior Minister of
Transmigration (JMT).
31.       Bank Group Projects.  Since the first of 15 irrigation projects
was approved in 1968, the Bank Group's agricultural lending has rapidly
expanded to include estate and smallholder tree crops, fertilizer production
and distribution, sugar, livestock, fisheries, research, extension,
training, seeds, transmigration, and resource survey and mapping. The
Operations Evaluation Department's Sector Operations Review of Bank Group
agricultural lending in Indonesia (Report No. 2166, dated August 9, 1978)
concluded that despite deficiencies in some projects, the Bank's portfolio
in Indonesian agriculture was "of overall good quality and likely to
contribute substantially to increased production." Within the context of
GOI's agricultural objectives and priorities, as outlined in Repelita III,
future Bank lending is expected to focus on:
(a)  a diversified irrigation, flood protection, drainage and swamp
reclamation program to intensify rice cropping on Java and to
expand water resources infrastructure in the Other Islands;
(b)  smallholder and nucleus estate tree crop planting programs
including iidustrial forest estates; and
(c) area development projects aimed at (a) watershed management to
conserve soil and ensure long-term productivity in the densely
populated areas of Java, (b) rural work programs, and (c)
transmigration.



- 12 -
Swamp Reclamation and Development
32.       Indonesia's land mass comprises an estimated 35 million ha of
swamps, nearly equally divided among Sumatra, Kalimantan and Irian Jaya.
These include an estimated 30 million ha of seasonally or permanently
inundated inland swamps and an estimated 5 million ha of coastal and near
coastal swamps, some of which are inundated during high tides by fresh or
brackish water. One of the the main resources of swamps are their soils
which are largely covered by swamp forests. Although the aggregate arable
swampland has not yet been assessed in detail, there is no doubt that swamp-
lands have a considerable potential to produce rice and other food and tree
crops under controlled water management. Historically, coastal and near
coastal swampland along tidal river estuaries in Sumatra and Kalimantan has
attracted migrating Banjarese from South Kalimantan and Buginese from South
Sulawesi who have spontaneously reclaimed more than 300,000 ha, and are
growing rice, vegetables, and a variety of other field and tree crops.
Planned reclamation began by the Dutch as early as 1939 at Purwosari in
South Kalimantan, followed in the 1950s and early 1960s by six small
Government-sponsored projects in South and West Kalimantan; but it was not
until its first five-year program, Repelita I, that GOI began reclaiming
large areas, penetrating inland from coastal rivers. During this period
some 33,000 ha were opened up in Sumatra and Kalimantan and about 8,700
families from Java and Bali were settled there. This reclamation brought to
light new problems as inland penetration encountered deeper peats and
potential acid-sulphate soils not encountered by spontaneous developments
along river banks. GOI reclaimed an additional 42,000 ha of tidal swamps
during Repelita II and plans to reclaim 0.4 million hectares during Repelita
III.
33.       Though the swamp reclamation operation as a whole has been slow,
it has succeeded in opening up new lands, demonstrating the potential
contribution of swamp reclamation to the transmigration program. In swamp
reclamation projects, where canals are the main communication arteries,
various agencies within the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) are responsible
for the implementation of the hydraulic infrastructure and land clearing;
the DGT is responsible for housing, village development and settling of
transmigrants, and the Directorate General of Foodcrops Agriculture (DGFCA)
bears major responsibility to support agricultural development. In the
swamp reclamation program, the main constraints in past planning and
implementation have been management weaknesses, technical weaknesses,
including both insufficient and inadequately qualified staff, and a weak
supervisory capacity. The proposed project addresses these issues by
providing technical assistance and institutional support.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.        The proposed project was prepared by the Project Unit for Tidal
Swamp Reclamation (P4S) within MPW, assisted by NEDECO (a Dutch consulting
firm) and several Indonesian consulting firms, funded under Irrigation VII
(Loan 1268-IND) and under Irrigation XII (Loan 1645-IND). The project was
preappraised in June 1979, and appraised in November 1979. Negotiations were
held in Washington from October 6, 1980 to October 15, 1980; the Indonesian
delegation was led by lHr. Oesman. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3065a-IND),
is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.
Objectives and Strategy
35.        The project would comprise the reclamation of some 9,000 ha (gross)
of swamps at Karang Agung, South Sumatra, the settlement of about 3,200
transmigrant families, agricultural development of 7,200 ha (net) and
supporting services. A major objective of Bank involvement through this
project is to strengthen the capacities of the relevant Government agencies
to plan and implement its overall swamp reclamation program. Therefore, the
project includes training, studies, and investigations to help articulate
priorities for the Government's program and the institutional strengthening
required.
Features of the Project
36.        Physical Features.  The hydraulic network of the project comprises
a drainage system feeding into a navigation canal which connects it to a
tidal river at a point where water is fresh year-round.  Though the system
is designed to mainly evacuate excess surface water from fields during the
wet season for the cultivation of a rainfed rice crop, it incorporates
controls on tertiary canals to prevent overdrainage during the dry season
which would be harmful to swamp soils. Together with field bunds, tertiary
controls would be instrumental in retaining high soil moisture during the
dry season, thereby preventing acidification of pyrite subsoils. The
project provides for the clearing of about 7,200 ha to be divided into about
3,200 house and farm plots and the clearing of 420 ha for communal facili-
ties in the project's seven villages.  Seven primary schools, one lower
secondary school, six subhealth centers and one health center would be
provided.
37.        Settlement.  The project provides for the selection, transport and
settlement of about 3,200 families (about 2,800 from Java or Bali and about
400 from within the region, wanting to settle in the project area), and
support for the agricultural development of their land. Each settled family
would be given a house surrounded by a 0.5 ha houselot, and a 1.75 ha farm
plot. DGT in cooperation with the Directorate General Agrarian Affairs
(DGA) would assign "right of use" certificates for houselots and farm plots
to settlers one year after settling, and assigns titles to their land



- 14 -
within five years after settling (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Prior to disembarkation, each family would be given a standard supply
package and the first of 18 monthly subsistence rations.
38.       Studies and Technical Assistance.  The project provides for studies
which would assist the Government in selecting future reclamation sites, in
upgrading older developments, in assessing environmental impacts of selected
swamp developments, in investigating the availability of potable groundwater
at Karang Agung, and in monitoring the project's ecological and socioeconomic
effects. These studies, as well as the training and technical assistance
provided, would strengthen the technical capabilities of participating line
agencies. Technical assistance to the JMT's office will include assessment
of the manpower required in each participating agency to implement the swamp
reclamation program under Repelita III. Consultants to the participating
agencies will train the staff in reconnaissance investigations, project
preparation techniques, feasibility analysis, and supervision of implemen-
tation. About 300 man-months of local consultants, 660 man-months of local
technicians and 120 man-months of foreign consultants would assist
implementing agencies in design, contract documents, construction super-
vision and management. About 576 man-months of local consultants, 1,152
man-months of technicians and 225 man-months of foreign consultants would
assist line agencies in carrying out studies and investigations and in
monitoring the progress of the development of the project.
Implementation
39.       The management of the proposed project has been formulated in line
with GOI policies entrusting the implementation of project components to line
agencies normally responsible for those activities. On this basis, three line
agencies would implement the physical components of the project: P4S would
implement the hydraulic infrastructure; the Directorate of Land Preparation
for Transmigration Areas (PTPT) would implement land clearing; and DGT would
be responsible for the construction of houses, village facilities, transport
and settlement of transmigrants, and coordinate social services for a period
of about five years. Subdivision would be supported by the Directorate
General Cipta Karya (DGCK) which would plan villages and DGA which would
survey and register titles to individual plots. Agricultural support to the
project would be given by DGFCA from inception and throughout the life of the
project. In respose to the needs of this multiagency operation, lines of
authority and responsibility have been defined and specific coordination
responsibilities delineated at various activity levels.
40.       Most activities would be carried out in parallel, to facilitate an
early settling of people and the commencement of agricultural development.
As work progressed on canals, hamlet strips would be cleared and houses
constructed for transmigrants. The moving and settling of transmigrants
would start shortly after completing the first group of houses and would
continue at the rate of housing construction. About three months after



- 15 -
their arrival on site, settlers would be employed by a contractor to clear
their farm plots. This operation, which would provide settlers with incomes
during the initial settling period, would be carried out progressively until
all farm plots are cleared. After land clearing of each block, the area
would be surveyed, subdivided and plans prepared for tertiaries. Settlers
would be employed in constructing tertiaries and field bunds during part of
the following year after settling, engaging in cultivating their plots
during the remainder of the year.
41.       DGFCA would supply each transmigrant family upon arrival with an
initial seed package of food and vegetable crops and seedlings of fruit
trees for home gardens. As agricultural development progresses, this agency
would ensure that inputs are made available to farmers when needed. It
would also construct and staff a rural extension center in the project area.
DGFCA would provide permanently two middlelevel extension workers and six
field extension workers under the part-time supervision of a subject matter
specialist and the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development would
provide permanently adequately trained staff, as required, to carry out
agricultural research (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Other
directorates in the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Trade and
Cooperatives, Ministry of Home Affairs, and Bank Rakyat Indonesia, would
also provide funds, staff and facilities to support the agricultural
development of the project. Schools would be built in the new villages
under the project. The Ministry of Home Affairs would supervise the
construction of the primary schools and the Directorate General of Education
would supervise the construction of the lower secondary school, and staff,
maintain and operate all the schools. The Ministry of Health would
supervise the construction of and operate six subhealth centers and one
health center in the project's villages, staff them with nurses and a
doctor, and furnish supplies. The health center and subcenter would be
constructed concurrently with the villages and for each village one
subcenter shall be built, equipped and staffed before settlement begins
(Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
42.       Coordination.  JMT, working through his Secretariat in Jakarta,
would have primary responsibility for coordinating the activities of all
agencies involved in the proposed project. He would monitor the preparation,
implementation and impact of project components and assure their timely
execution. To this end, a Project Coordinator in Jakarta, a Regional
Project Coordinator in Palembang and a field coordinator at the site would
be appointed with their line of authority to the office of the JMT.
43.       The Project Coordinator designated under Transmigration Project
II (Loan 1707/Credit 919) would coordinate activities of the headquarters of
implementing agencies, including planning, design, contracting disbursement,
processing and reportiag. Directly under the Project Coordinator would be a
regional coordinator, at the provincial capital, who would coordinate
contract management project backup, and technical and administrative support
by regional line agency offices. Field activities would be supervised by
site managers of each participating line agency, coordinated by P4S site
manager designated as field coordinator from inception to the completion of



- 16 -
the hydraulic network, and subsequently by DGT's site manager until the
administration of the project would be taken over by local authorities.
Assurances would be obtained from GOI that a regional coordinator would be
appointed not later than December 31, 1981; the P4S site manager would be
posted not later than March 31, 1981; and the PTPT and DGT site managers
would be posted not later than January 31, 1982 (Sections 3.02 and 3.06 of
the draft Loan Agreement). A timetable has also been agreed for
appointment of the consultants required for project implementation and
assurances also were obtained that consultants with qualifications,
experience and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank would be
appointed by P4S. DGCK, PTPT, DGT and JMT (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
44.       Operation and Maintenance.  The main and secondary hydraulic network
(navigation, primary, secondary canals and structures) would be taken over
from P4S by the regional Public Works Department (DPU) at Palembang, two
years after the completion of construction, and operated and maintained
through a sub-office in the project area. As maintenance would require
mechanical equipment, whose acquisition would not be justified for a 9,000
ha project, DPU would either use its own equipment or sub-contract the work
locally. The operation and maintenance (O&M) of tertiary systems would be
carried out by settlers themselves, with P4S initial assistance and
guidance. Public facilities would be maintained by appropriate ministries
through annual budget releases. Although funding of O&M systems in
irrigation, drainage and the swamp reclamation project is a regional
responsibility, the Central Government has usually been supplementing
inadequate regional funds. Assurances were obtained from GOI that
sufficient and timely funds would be provided for the O&M of the project,
the first half by August 15 of each year and the remainder on two
installments until all budgeted accounts have been made available, that a
detailed annual O&M plan would be developed and that a project O&M office
would be suitably staffed by May 31, 1984 (Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
45.       The total project cost is estimated at $44.6 million in late 1980
prices, of which 42% would be foreign exchange. Project costs include
a tax on civil work contracts of 5% ($800,000), physical contingencies of
15%, and an allowance for expected price increases totalling 32% of local
expenditures and 19% of foreign expenditures (local cost inflation is pro-
jected at 15% during 1981 and 10% during the following years while foreign
cost inflation is projected at 9% during 1981, 8% during 1982 and 7% there-
after). Consultant costs, including overhead, housing and travel, are
estimated at $12,100 per month for expatriates, $2,062 per month for local
consultants and $660 per month for local technicians. The proposed loan of
$22 million would finance foreign exchange costs and $3.1 million of local
costs. In view of the institutional support to be provided at a critical
stage in the expansion of the swamp reclamation program, this is a key
project for which the proposed level of financing is justified (para. 16).



- 17 -
GOI would provide the remaining Rp 14.1 billion ($22.6 million) from annual
budget appropriations.
Procurement
46.        The main civil works contract comprising the navigation canal,
primary and secondary canals and related structures (totalling $6.3
million)/l would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. All remaining works would be
heavily labor-intensive and, in the case of land clearing and on-farm works,
would involve the use of settlers  labor.  In view of this, ICB would not be
appropriate for procurement of these works, and contracts for them would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with GOI procedures acceptable to the Bank. In mid-1980 GOI introduced new
local procurement guidelines, including measures designed to promote
participation by indigenous and small firms located in the district in which
the GOI contract is to be executed; these procedures will permit efficient
procurement under the project. Procurement for the one locally procured
civil works contract which the Bank is financing would be subject to Bank
contractual remedies. Among the contracts to be advertised locally, the
following works would be grouped:
(a) clearing of houselots and the construction of houses and village
facilities ($5.1 million) into no more than five packages, each
comprising land clearing and housing construction and each
awarded to one contractor; and
(b) construction of tertiary drain structures and hamlet drain
outlets ($0.7 million) into no more than three packages.
Contracts for remaining works, including clearing of farm plots ($2.2
million), and on-farm works (excavation of tertiary drains and constructing
field bunds, $0.8 million) would also be inappropriate for ICB, as they would
be implemented labor-intensively using settler labor; contracts for them
would therefore be awarded in accordance with the new GOI procedures,
acceptable to the Bank.
47.        A total of about $2.0 million worth of equipment and materials
(including aerial photography and the provision of drilling equipment,
supplies, and training) would be procured under the project in addition to
$0.4 million in farm tools and supplies to settlers. Of this, contracts
amounting to $1.25 million would be awarded on the basis of ICB. The
remaining equipment and materials could not be grouped in packages
sufficiently large to attract international bidders and hence would be
procured through GOI procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank.
/1 Base costs exclusive of physical contingencies and expected price
increases.



- 18 -
Disbursements
48.       Disbursements for equipment and materials required for construc-
tion supervision and for studies /1 would be at the rate of 100% of the
foreign exchange costs of directly imported equipment and materials and 95%
of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment and materials.
Funds for remaining equipment and materials would be provided fully by GOI.
Disbursements for civil works would be made only against the ICB contract
and one local competitive bidding contract for land clearing of farm plots
at the rate of 100% of total expenditures, with direct disbursement to the
contractors. Funds for the remaining civil works would be provided fully by
GOI. Disbursements for consulting services /2 would be at the rate of 100%
of total expenditures.
Accounts and Audits
49.       Assurances would be obtained from GOI that: (a) all implementing
agencies would maintain separate accounts for the project; (b) these
accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors, acceptable to
the Bank; and (c) these audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the close of each fiscal year together with the
auditor's comments and opinion (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
50.       The implementation of the project would be monitored by JMT's
regional coordinator at Palembang with particular emphasis on the technical
and administrative performance of each participating line agency. After
implementation, the ecological and socioeconomic effects of the development
of the project would be monitored by P4S, DGFCA, Directorate General
Fisheries and DGT, semiannually. Assurances would be obtained from GOI that
the physical, socio-economic conditions and ecological impact of the
development would be monitored by GOI from fiscal year 1984 until fiscal
year 1989 and reported annually (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
51.       While the project beneficiaries would be able to pay increasing
general taxes (village and excise taxes and import duties) as they become
more prosperous, direct cost recovery and rent recovery indices under the
/1 Excepting equipment and materials required for an investigation for
groundwater and monitoring which would be wholly funded by the
government.
/2 Excepting consultants for DGCK who would be funded under Irrigation XII
(Loan 1645-IND); consultants for DGT and consultants for an investiga-
tion of groundwater and for monitoring who would be funded wholly by GOI.



- 19 -
project would be only 2% and 11% respectively. While this is minimal
compared to projects on Java, it is comparable to cost recovery under other
transmigration projects (5% cost recovery with Transmigration II Project,
Loan 1707/Cr. 919-IND) and with new irrigation projects in the Other Islands
(3% cost recovery for Irrigation Project XV, Loan 1811/Cr. 995-IND). These
low rates are justified considering present and projected income levels of
the settlers in this project, which will remain below critical consumption
levels throughout the project life./I As a matter of policy, GOI has not
contemplated recovery of costs in transmigration projects, particularly
considering the low incomes projected, and the personal risks entailed.
Cost recovery during initial years of settlement not only would be
unjustified but could also provide a disincentive to participation.
Benefits and Justification
52.       The project would create 3,200 new farms and associated settlements.
It would make rainfed rice production possible on 5,600 ha of farm plots and
the production of rice and other crops possible on another 1,600 ha of
houselots. It would directly benefit some 3,200 farm families or 16,000
people, living below the critical consumption level, and at least another
300 families by creating employment opportunities in other sectors servicing
the agricultural development. Project construction would provide
considerable employment to the settlers: land clearing of farm plots and
digging of tertiary drains would provide over 400,000 man-days of unskilled
labor. Farming operations would provide annually 1.6 million man-days (516
man-days per family) at full development, all furnished by the settlers
families. Most of the jobs generated by the project are new jobs since
transmigrants were performing low-productivity jobs in their places of
origin and their leaving the local labor force would not appreciably reduce
local production. There would be no impact on the reduction of
administration, school and health services at places of origin as a result
of the leaving of transmigrants- departure.
53.       This project would also provide a firm basis for the long-term
development of the area. It would serve as a nucleus for further
developments, would attract spontaneous transmigrants, provide services to a
remote area, and increase productive employment and food production.
Project beneficiaries would mainly be landless, or near-landless laborers.
At full project development, per capita income would have increased from an
estimated $35 at present to $267.
54.       The total cost of reclamation, site preparation, community develop-
ment and settlement is about $8,000 per family (in constant end-1980 prices),
including 10% engineering costs and 15% physical contingencies, but
/1 Real consumption expenditure of the bottom 40% of the population is
expected to increase at 3.5% to 5.5% annually.



- 20 -
excluding price contingencies. This would be about the same as the cost of
comparable farmlot development in upland transmigration. Whereas in
uplands, site preparation can be staged and people settled on initially
smaller plots, in swamplands, the reclamation and drainage works (entailing
the major cost of physical development) must be completed initially;
thereafter, any delays in land clearing would cause idle investments and
seriously jeopardize agricultural development (due to swamp pest problems).
The economic rate of return of the project is 13%. This rate was tested
regarding sensitivity to fluctuations of key variables. The analysis
indicates that the rate of return is fairly insensitive to modest increases
in construction costs, and even to drastic reductions in projected crop
yields. A 14% decline in paddy yields and a total absence of a dry-season
crop or, alternatively, a 23% decrease of the whole benefit stream would be
required to reduce the economic rate of return to 10%.
Risks
55.       Risks pertaining to the proposed project are environmental and
organizational, described as follows:
56.       Environmental.  To achieve targetted rice yields on potential
acid-sulphate subsoils found in the project area requires a high soil moisture
(or high water table) to prevent these soils from oxidizing and becoming acid.
The project addresses this requirement and provides the necessary safeguards
to maintain high soil moistures: impervious bunds along the perimeter of
farm plots and control gates on tertiary canals to check water levels
thereby preventing overdrainage. Experience in similar soils in neighboring
areas shows that with these arrangements the risk of soil acidification is
minimal.
57.       Organizational.  The project has made arrangements for properly
coordinated implementation of works, settlement of people and support
services. Although agricultural development and benefits could be delayed
by the failure on the part of management to coordinate the activities of the
different agencies, the heavy input of GOI staff and consultants, the
advanced stage of project preparation and a strong commitment to the trans-
migration program should minimize this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments                                          by
March 2, 1981
Washington, D.C.                               Ernest Stern



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                      Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESLA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHeET
INDONESIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED Aj11RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            2027.1                                   MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      292.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    80.(        130.0      380.0                 212.4                  1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KULOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       129.0        120.0     278.0                  166.0                  842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       94.7        117.6      136.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.6           17.1       19.5                  20.8                    39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        204.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          350.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2155
POFULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         47.0         58.0      67.0                  193.2                  376.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAbND    337.0         419.0     465.0                  409.6                 2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           40.8         44.0      41.0                   42.0                   40.4
15-64 YRS.                           56.1         53.5      56.0                   55.0                   56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.1          2.5       3.0                    3.0                    3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.1          2.2        1.8                   2.2                    2.4
URBAN                                3.8          3.8       3.5                    3.9                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       47.0         43.0       37.0                  37.4                   28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       23.0         1B.0       17.0                  14.6                     7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.8          3.2        2.4                   2.6                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        181.1    2246.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            0.2      19.0*                  15.6                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            93.0        102.0     107.0                  101.4                  116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     89.0        92.0      105.0                   92.4                  108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            41.0         41.0      47.0                   49.8                   60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          6.0          6.0       6.0                   12.0                   18.8
CHIILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      31.0         22.0      20.0                   17.9                     3.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.0           46.0      47.0                   50.8                   63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        126.0        ..                     ..                   52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          3.0      12.0                   30.2                   42.4
URBAN                                 ..         10.0      35.0                   66.0                   62.1
RURAL                                 ..          1.0       6.0                   20.0                   29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         12.0       15.0                  17.7                   52.8
URBAN                                 ..         50.0      60.0                   71.3                   71.1
RURAL                                 -           4.0       5.0                                         42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           41000.0/c   26830.0   14580.0                  6322.7                 4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..      8010.0    2818.0                 9459.0                  2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                             1360.0      1530.0    1578.0                  1758.4                  819.4
URBAN                                 ..      1090.0
RURAL                                 ..       1670.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..      22.4                     ..                   28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.4          4.8
URBAN                                4.9          5.3
RURAL                                4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMOER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                             1.5
URBAN                                 ..          1.6
RURAL                                             1.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL
* Estimate for 1979 is 27%.



- 23-                                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A ERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       ASiA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED  eROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                71.0         78.0      86.0                80.9                  98.6
MALE                 86.0         83.0      91.0                94.3                  99.2
FEMALE               58.0         73.0      81.0               66.7                   97.7
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   6.0        16.0      21.0                26.6                  55.5
MALE                 10.0         21.0      25.0               34.8                   60.7
FEMALE                3.0         11.0      17.0               18.2                   49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY) 20.0          22.0      21.0                 9.9                  13.7
PUPIL-TEACHFU RAtIo
PRIMARY                            39.0        29.0      30.0                41.1                  34.6
SECONDARY                          14.0        13.0      18.3                20.5                  28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        39.0        57.0      62.0                40.9                  85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0         2.0       3.6                 1.8                   9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.0         21.0      37.0                25.8                 118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER TIOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.1          0.8       2.3                 2.4                  39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..          ..      16.0                13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..       0.9                  ..                   4. 9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    34752.5      41547.3   48610.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   27.9        31.0      29.0                29.4                  36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              74.8        66.3      60.1                70.5                  51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 8.4          9.7      11.0                11.6                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.7        35.3      34.6                37.9                  39.1
MALE                                 54.2        49.5      48.6                51.3                  48.5
FEMALE                               20.0        21.6      20.8                23.7                  29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2         1.3       1.2                 1.2                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS      ..        33.7/d
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         52.0o7
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         6.87d
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        17.37       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          .,    150.0/e              107.8
RURAL                               ..           ..    107.07               86.5                 192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..    145.0/e
RURAL                               ..           ..      98.07W                ..                 182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..      59.0                46.2
RURAL                               ..           ..      65.0                51.7                  33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962;  /d Income recipients;  /e 1980.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 24 -                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINITION8S OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note.:  Although the dato are draw  from        -- sorcs  .eorelly judged the moat authoritative and reliable, it should also be noted that theY may oat he  tote-
nationally comparable because of the lack of etodardleed definitione aed concept, used by different cutIes  tocllecting the data.  The dots ore  eons-..
thel1a u..ce.ful to denCrihe oriera of aagntude, Indicate trends, and ch-ararteie  terteic major differences betwee  ountr.ies..
Thet rfar.e. :tgroups are. (17 ihe sam  countY group of the subject coun try and () A countrY group with somehat higher  verags Inton  then the coutry genup
of the sub js   un-ty (ou...pt for 'Capitol Surplum  Ol  Onprter-` group where  'Middle Incm  North Afric-  and Middle Fas.t' is  h..a- because. of stronger
so.oto-ou..ur..  offint is).  In she referec  grou,p dat  the .v.reg.m  Are pepulatien  sighted arithmetic mean  f. or ech indicator end shen only rhin,a
lesst half of t- '- c ies    i  rou  has dale focr that indicator.  Since the no-sreg  of  -outis   -amn  the indicators depend. on the avilability  tf
date and is ct..   -.'' a  catic   ot_ broeroteed ItCeaigaeae  of one indiouter to another.  These avrge                            .r only useful In comparing the volca
of one indicator u'. c  ien amog the  onr  nod reesueg p.
LAND AREA (thuceniud eq.ko.)                                                                   FouainecPyicint               f itn    iia   y  uboc   eciigpy
T.tt1 - Total -curd acenn   -upnimiug Uod area sod iclood nao                                   ininAs qualified f       Ao amdial school at university leve.
Agricu-ltural  - tE.tinat  of ogrcuturl  arnor ..ee.d tnporeily or  eranetly                 Pooul.into  aer Nersin  Pernn -P Fopuoei   divided by number of pr-tioeg
for crops, pastuse, narket ouc kitchen gardeno or to lie follow; 1977 data.                 male and femal  graduate  use,practical nuss,ad assitstat noreen.
2E_EPqAP1T__CUS) - GP P-    pi- .t "'     't  . r"t    k.t pi ...   ..   urban~, an:d rena) divided by their r-P'.iv mI_            of hospitial bae
colored by nan  C--uria. thccld on Scold Sunk Atl.a  (1977-79 heecs); 1960,                    ailbeIn public ma  private general and eperilimed hospital an  ra-
s91   od  1979 dot.                                                                        bhbilitatio   .tannrs.  Neepitale are merblih-tns parenetly eteffed
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  ~ER CAITA - 1-1 C...-pti..                          by at toast one phynicia,  Btsbelisihente providiag principally noetdial
Olfoily CISOMPTOS Jt  CAi'IA  -  uocolconouprionof conarcil enrgy(coa         Cer  mnent icue.Rural hospitale, h--v, include health and medica
-an  ligoton, pettoleun        ..cro  gacnodthydr-, nulared geotheralnb-                        eters ec eraetly staffed by A physician  (hut by a medina1 Asaitanet,
tolcity) ho kilogva_  of coo.eqivuetper copito; 1960, 1970, nod 19yg                          n-r, midwife, etc.) eith  f fee in-patient aocndetion  med proide 
dsto,                                                                                          limited range of medical facilitime,  For stacistinol purpesme urban beepi-
tal .Include WBDs principal general amd spaialinad bspitale, and rura
POPUILATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                  coPin=l  loa  or. rural- hospitasoadmedica  and maternity cetns.
Total Populatio..  Mid-Ya:n: hoo    An of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 19y8                       Admissian. cer genital Ned - Total enber of adiasi.ne to or disohorge
dntc.                                                                                        from hospitals divided by the nuber of beds.
Urban Poculoot ferooco  total)  Ricci  of urban to total population;
dif urdel icitI.n. of  rAI,,   u  may affet oPAtability of data                   BOUINop
amog c.uoclt.c; 1963.197,nd1978 data.f                                                    Average Sine of go..eebold (per..ns per~ h        hceebod)    totel. ur an,ad   rl
Epol-tto  Proletiut                                                                           A ho..hod  .onniate  fagepe   niiul.b   hr  living quaters
Populaion inrear 200 - Ctretpopulation poleoc.iOrs on  hb    on. 199                ad thir man   ole.  A boarder or lodger may or may not he inoluded t
coe   ouainby ace auf seod themr mortali ty aod fertility retna.                 the household foe e.taiatIcal purpomee.
Projectico parunetera for sortalityca.tee  conpries uf three levlsaeue                  Average ouhe f permons ner ron - totl. urben. end rurl- Average Sum
tog life copeutecoy  t bIrth i-cnaio  ,cith coun try's per capita   on              hrc  po-brenpmro Iallcenn rulocpidovntnl
fro,co   rdelf.     eycocyaailai.g nt 77.5 yaare.  The Peru-                        d..llinge. r-peotively.  Swellings. -Jude ne-peoanet etr...ture.soed
enters for f_ccitiy caccalecboo  three levels eneo_iog daclin in.                         unoccupied parts.
fortijity  ccrding to Incom  leve  and PAat feily planing perfornno.                   A.o.e.t  Slcoct   pret  of dul ice-total,_ uran  and rura  -
Ouch contry i  thou  eelgnrdone ofthees  ine cobination  ofmrtality          Coovetionldalig  etheeteicit  ilIvin   qurters As pee-ntego
_and    1 feriit  trede foI  rjeto   furpo.                                               of .tona, urbac, atd rurti dwellings  epo.          ey
Stationary opoPI.lucin In o etatico..ry population thero Ie oc growth mince
the birth raeo   neqalc  theeah   t, cod also the agescucto  re    -    flIttaTIGM
mainecuet..nt..T IeouhIevd  nl  after fertiliy name decline to                            duae   oni.lment   t
th  rpac -utlee  of utit  n    ordcinrt,wo   ahgnrto                                      Primar  eChool - total, male and femal  - Gr.ee tto1, male and famle
of   moroyuoe  cti  oc ly .  The.stationay population aten  -anolmn  of all ages at the  emr  level- as APrctaeofep ia
neIittutd cc the baaie of rho prujectad oheractrietice  of tha pupoltion                    primryshol-geppuletia; nomll.ncue  obldrc  ged 6-il"
In the year 2000. ond the rote of dnclIne of fertility, rate to relc-ber   ut adjusted for diffterent lengths of primary  dnoetion; fur
moo. t. lee.. ypplt-i   ,C,                  h     rh         .i r   .u.i                     centries richunvra   -dcaia   nrlet may eaneed 100 percen.t
Van  eoconnypoutic  s  eahe  -  heynr  he  satonrypnultmm               Ino   oepupila  r A belwo  obe- the official echool age.
.iec hen bean ranched.                                                                    Smodar enbas  - totl, male end femal  - Computed as  bhuv; ..e..ndery
Population De Kity..    .u.i.prql   ietl(0   .t..      fducation requires At  ass.t f nor yassr  of approved primary inerotmoti-
Perso  be  -Itd-yarpouleio  pr auae klostr (ffhetarelofprovidesgnoa.vo                         oirl.e  te..ober training inanrutina  for pupib
P.ro  c   o  eoiclurl    d - Computed ae  bhu- fcc egicoltu...l lund                           eac.lyud    12tad..;A.  . -l
onply.t.ASSt.t            p,-            -Cid.    01y.l,-r g-.(5                             Voeica enrol1met feercet of encondary) - Vecatiun1 imetitutiun
Popolecir Age S rucue  frr(6          hlre   01    er)  wrigae(9                            include techoinal, indutrial  o  ohr Progam   ohich operate indepe-
64 ynona), aed raren   (6   n       ad ove) aapcecgeof mid-year pupu-                          dentl  or en depantenet  of aecodery`inetittiC ns
lotion; 1960, 1970, cod 1970 dato.                                                           P.nu1-tna.her ratio - neima. and aecondary - Total  tdents enrolled In
Preda11tion Growth.Race (P.rce.t) - totuI - Annual groth ratne of total mid-                     primary and encondery levels divided by nubers of teahens In the
yerpoplation   fur 1950-60, 1960-F0, and 1970-78.                                          corsodiglvl..
Fuoulaico Grwth fte  'Pereot  - ceba  - uncol growth eaten of urban popu-                Addst liter-o rate fe--tn) - Literate  adulta fable tc rend an  -vite)
lati.ne foe 1950-hf0, l9'60-70, cud'I970-7a6A  .acpercen.taga of total adult population oged 15 yassr  end cyst.
Crude Birch Soer feet thousand) - Aooul lIon bIeche per tho..nd of mid-yna
pcpultion  1961, 190,n   19776data.                                                     CONSUMPTION
Crude  neth hrn (ce  thounnd) - P--Ino deach  pen thousand of mid-year                 Passamer Care (psr thoneend population) - Pee..enger care coprien motor
populutiun; 1960, 1970, cud 1976 data.                                                       carseting le.. then night per...na;  nClde  ambulances, hearesanaod
Gruns. RerdcionSt-Average cober of dAughtereawono   m ill bear In                              miiayvhiolna
bee n  reerproductive period itf  hn nuporien-     Prec ege-epcifi to .  RtRdosativer  fear thoasad pneuleti-r  - All types of rece.ivers for radJ
citiy Catao;uau"llyfiv-yar .v..n  co.ding to 1960, i9F0, end 19FF.                           broodneatero  genral Public perdthousan  of  prittn              -eludes uni-
PFeily Plennina - VAoptata, un ctlfhoceon.) - AnnuI ouber of acce Ptors                        ceneedr iva  In coutries adIn yna    hpm negistrtion of radio se't
of birth-con trolGdeI -eoe   ,uspi,,. of national funily planing program.                    ec . effect; data far recent years may   t he comparable  ince most
Family Pleaino-ter  (cercet of married wme    Percentage of married                            c           bntie 1aniehd licensing.
:onen ofichild-asin   auc (15-44 ynerc) who.n  birth-control device. tO                    Tr caivar  free tbhsnd roeclatio) - TV rceivers f or broAdcat no
all macied noon he  ame agegrony.genene  pubirpr thosead pepultiun;  eCludse unliCena  TV r-clv,ns
FOOD ANS  NpTRITISM                                                                              In c_utuias And In years wh.n registretine of TV sets roein effect.
NeneaerCicuetanfer  hosadPopCH-cin   - Show  the e-9eg  circit
Peutia  ofAllfo  c....oditiem.  Productiucecunene.n  feed  mod                               linacton devoted primarily to reco rding generl nes.It Is considered
In  ncaleda  yearh huao. C--di. ire,cuver prmay goode (e.g. angac-e                          to bc "daily" If it appears aneat fou   imsa  ok
inetnd o  eugr) wICh ar diblo and  cnai rucicone  (e.g. coffee and                   CiOSO Anua  Aceda t         end Conita ec lean-   Cae   ntenne  of
tooar  enldd.Agregate productio of neoh country is busd ccto'    '
nationa  overage producer prior  neights; 1961-65, 1970, an  1976 deto.                      ticketsbild duingteyaticudn.d.sostodiei   iea
Per cupitaeuppl1y of cauin(percen.t of -ecui-ets) - Computed fro                              n  mbl  uie
ene rgy  qovoon  of eet food supplies avilable it contr  Per onpita                   LABO  FORCt
yet day.  Av-ilbln suppies. cueprien dunatic production,  mprt  lens                    Total Labor Fore     IbuadC-Ecnonetouly active pseauna, including
onponco, and choagnA I  stock.  Net  itpplco culudo  aiofed,tod,                          amd fre   n   nmlyd  u   mlde   eewie,suet.ec
quancitina used Itfood pronounig, cud I..n.. I  distrihbto.             tqis                eiitosiietunoutieae  o   upn e;16.17   n
mence - ere e sscmted by Put hosed on phyeiulginel ...ndn f or n-no  otti-                  978i dira...I    C... ti.                  t..p-l;16,17   o
city und houIth.. icadnring  _niroonntu  temperature   body waighte. age                Female (drer     Fml  aorfree  pretg  o   oa   abrfre
and eno dietrihui    of population, and allowing if percent for weete *t                Agriultre fe.r.et) - F          Abot  fore in farmin  tg, forestry.uting and r
hoceehld luvl; 196-65,  970. ad 1927data.fiahmng am pero..ncage oftoalbr force; 160.  97FO and 1978 date.
Pe iato supply of protei  (a.Irom    e  day) - Peutnin content of pe.rc-pita           In,dustry  fron)- Labor force In mining, cuns.tru-ttn, mnfctrning
not nppiy of food per duy         e   uply of food In deficed aabove   t-                  adsotriity.etradgsa   ecnae  fttllbrfre   90
quiromonce forull.. outrie tcecablisbd by USIA pruvide fur minimumO   d178d:
alowcc  c  60 gro_f  oa  protoi  per dyed2gr                       of animal  nd           19Ffan  1F8des
9 f t.    p   t p.r dy -d 20 gr-                     Seticiatie .Rat  fprece)-  tonal, mal. and femle - Participeino
polr  prcI, _ of which 10 gra  should he animal peutnin.  Thn-  arnd                       ativity rates ore compted as total ,male, end da-le  laho  furce a
cder   owrthoc thoan c  75goeo   oa  protein and 23 gn-omuf                               pecnAge ftotal, mal  and feocpplto    felunsa oiey
animal  nctein  o aoovrag   f-or  bn world, propu..ed by FAO In the Thtird         P1960,1970. and 1971 data.  Th... ar  ILO' peticipectun. rae    alcIfog
World rood  Suvy;1616,N lau  l177 den.                                                     age-ann structure of thr populatio..  end long tim  trend.  A fre  anti-
Per capita Proenuel  rmaia Aed ptlue - Protein supply of focod de-                           mcnaeoo   ainlmuoa
rtvnd from  animale end pulses  itrgin   per day; 1961-65, 1970 on- 1972 data..  = fcucmo  ectndnc  Rai l -I ..ti  ofppruicne  1   nd6   ndoe
Child(oe C:,!1-A) Mraiyct   m   huad  AIInideth  pr  housan  in                                to the total lahor f-rc.
agu grouy 1-A yearn, tu children In thie  s age rop; fnr  -s  devloping tow-
tlica data derived from life tables; 1960, 1970 und 1977 data. INCOME DISTR0IBUTIONl
HEALTH                                                                    5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Perorn  uf Prirant tn0n p (huch .n cash an2 id0-'cin  b   ihs
Life hopeccancy,at ninth (yours) j Averege ousber of yoere of life reatinig                    5preteira20poetpoes21pene-, mod pournet 4l prerunt
or hrth; 1900,1970 and 1929 dta..                                                            fh .l
Infant Mortality Sate feet th,ouand) - Annual deaths of idacte under one year   POVR7cy  TdARGT GnOUPc
of age per thuuasnd live births.                                                           Ftsimacd Abeolute Pov--y Iuoe  Love1 (1us nc-nia)-cbn  n   u                           -
Ance... to Oaf eWOter (prcn  uf rooltioc) - total, urban. and rura  - &Absolute p-rrty icm   ae  ithtncalevel belowU  whic  aomnia
tN-ber of prople (total, ura,adrra)wt   nonul cestond                                         ueto lyaeut  din  pluis teheti   te-fco   hqirnet   in cut
wae  spl  fnldo  tro aod nufcectrAC  or unreated but-actntanineted                  afodb.
eaersch -o cht from  pccet-cdbf b       on,spig,ed a..it-ry wile)- as                  taintd Relative Puv..rty lAun  Level fON  pt 00.pica) - urban and  rurlI
perce..ctgna of the ir repciePoploe   In at urban crn A public                               Rrleetv purty Inc=m   I.vnl in  n-hido   veeepr  apt
fooacor nadpont 1ocutod not morn tha   Dmters from  a h.u.. may ho                                                                       hl
coaierd  c  eig  tc t  raccahin  cuonofcht  oue.Inrualnene            prsonl Incom   of the country.  Ura-ee.i1eie   ro   h   ua
r ..b.o .....c.e.s.cld imply that the ho..e-if. or members of the household               deAbth  duten   o   iper oce,tofl'ivog`=                  ura  area,s;,.        -
deothave tc apend adieproportin...ct  part of the day in fetchigteadcrl-Pretc   euain(ra   n   ua)woaeuhcmpn'
rura  - Number ofIpol  Ouu,ura,cd rurl   evdb   nrr
diP..la        necgso  thei,        epcieppltos   torata di-En....IC sad Social Date Divisien
puanl  ay inlude  he colecnie  and tiepsl  ofth or nithut neaimne                                           toei  Aaysis and Prujacriun   Department
of buna  rocrnta and ...ete-ate  by water-horse syatn    -r the u.  of                                                                       October t980
pit privies end similar ie ltos



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979 /a                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTtl (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln    %          1960-65      1965-70    1970-75      1975-79
GNP at Market Prices            46,939  100.0           1.9          4.9          7.4         6.5
Gross Domestic Investment       11,069   23.6           3.3         11.5         18.3        10.5
Gross National Saving           12,362   26.3           5.8          5.1         20.3        20.3
Current Account Balance          1,293    2.8
Exports of Goods, NFS           14,742   31.4           1.5          7.8          9.2        11.1
Imports of Goods, NFS           11,331   24.1           0.2         10.9        22.1         14.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added        Labor Force /b    V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln    %          _n       %             US$      X
Agriculture                     11,624   31.1       35.3    62.6            329    49.7
Industry                        12,672   33.9        4.7      8.3         2,696   407.3
Services                        13,043   35.0       13.4    23.8            973   147.0
Unallocated                           -    -          3.0      5.3
Total/Average                37,339  100.0       56.4   100.0            662   100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(Rp billion)                              2 of GDP
1978/79   1979/80                          1978    1979
Current Receipts                  4,266       6,697                         19.4    21.8
Current Expenditure               2,530       3,920                         11.5    12.8
Current Surplus                   1,736       2,777                          7.9      9.1
Capital Expenditures              2,473       3,889                         11.3     12.7
External Assistance (net)            739      1,114                          3.4      3.6
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1975      1976      1977      1978      1979    1980 (June)
(Million Rp outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                  1,978    2,631    3,131    3,809    5,216             6,480
Bank Credit to Public Sector             990    1,051        883    1,442      1,065           -72
Bank Credit to Private Sector          1,376    1,737    2,017    2,605    3,160             3,607
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP   15.6          17.0      16.7       17.5      17.0
General Price Index (1973 = 100)         166       190       214        232       309
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                     12.9      14.5      12.6        8.4      33.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector           373.7       6.2    -16.0       63.3    -26.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector           16.0      26.2      16.1      29.2      21.3
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
/a  Exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$1 up to November 14, 1978, Rp 625 = US$1, thereafter.
/b  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
"Unallocated" consists mainly uf unemployed workers seeking their first job.
Not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
February 13, 1981



ANNEX I
- 26-                                              Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                      1977/78  1978/79  1979/80   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1977/78-1979/80)  US$ Mln          %
1.  Exports:                             10,861   11,353   17,488
(a)  Oil and LNG (gross)           7,354    7,374   11,323   Oil and LNG (gross)                 8,684      65.2
(b)  Nonoil                        3,507    3,979    6,165   Timber                              1,347      10.2
2.  Imports                            -10,686  -11,493  -14,233   Rubber                                 802       6.1
(a)  Oil sectors                  -2,909   -3,364   -4,439   Coffee                                616       4.7
(b)  Nonoil imports               -7,241   -7,543   -9,230   Palm Oil                              227       1.7
(c)  NFS (net)                      -536      -586      -659   Tin                                 322       2.4
3.  Resource balance                        175      -140    3,225   Manufactures                         534       4.0
4.  Factor services                        -865   -1,015   -1,261   All others                            702       5.3
(a)  Interest public debt /a        -436      -499      -772
(b)  Other (net)                    -429      -516      -489         Total                      13,234    100.0
5.  Balance on current account             -690   -1,155    1,990
6.  Direct foreign investment               285       271       217
7.  Capital grants                          100       100       100   EXTERNAL DEBT - December 31, 1979
8.  Public M & LT loan /a                                                                              Disbursed  Undisbursed  Total
(a)  Disbursements                 1,955    1,627    1,940                                      -     …----- US5 million  --------
(b)  Amortization                   -825      -969   -1,334
(c)  Net disbursements             1,130       658       606   Total External Public Debt          13,086      5,811    18,897
9.  Other capital (net)                    -174       834   -1,223
10.  Change in reserves
(- increase)                        -651      -708   -1,690   DEBT SERVICE RATIO                           1977    1978    1979
11.  Net official reserves                 2,208    2,916    4,606
Public debt service as x of exports    15.9    18.4    15.3
Reserves in months of imports + NFS          3.4       4.3       5.6      (oil on a net basis)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                       IBRD/IDA LENDING (November 30, 1980) (US* million)
IBRD        IDA
August 1971 through November 14, 1978
Outstanding & Disbursed                      1,116.58    554.13
US$1.00  =  Rp 415                                                 Undisbursed                                  2,030.42    377.67
Rp 1,000 =  USS2.41                                                Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                3,147.00    931.80
Since November 15, 1978
US$1.00 = Rp 625
Rp 1,000 = US$1.60
/a Based on IBRD external debt data.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
February 13, 1981



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 26 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of November 30, 1980)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Seven Loans and twenty-seven Credits fully disbursed  417.00  432.43             -
259     1971   Tea                                                 15.00        0.35
300     1972   Population                                          13.20        1.47
319     1972   Fourth Agricultural Estates                         11.00        0.67
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development                5.00        0.80
387     1973   Third Education                                     13.50        3.61
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                   7.80        4.65
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                       16.50        9.02
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                          5.00        1.22
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                        16.00        5.82
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                     6.50        0.82
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                      30.00       16.66
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project                40.00       11.32
827     1978   Rural Credit                                        30.00       26.94
869     1979   Polytechnic                                         49.00       47.62
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                          10.00        9.66
919     1979   Transmigration II                                   67.00       63.49
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                        12.00       11.65
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Dev. Project                     45.00       44.62
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                                45.00       45.00
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                   42.00       42.00
1014     1980   National Ag. Research Project                       30.00       30.00
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                    14.50                2.28
1100      1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.00               30.84
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension           21.50               10.28
1197      1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.00                6.82
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                             130.00               61.71
1237     1976   Fourth Education                            37.00               16.83
1250     1976   Second Shipping                             54.00               22.94



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 26 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1259    1976   Fifth Power                                90.00              13.24
1267    1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.00               7.80
1268    1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00              13.85
1318    1977   Transmigration and Rural Develpment    30.00                  13.88
1336    1977   Second Urban Development                   52.50              10.59
1337    1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.00              15.31
1363    1977   Second PDFCI                               15.00               2.80
1365    1977   Sixth Power                               116.00             43.64
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                      13.00              10.78
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.00              15.38
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.00              48.30
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.00              20.59
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                   4.09
1472    1977   Second Population                          24.50              17.27
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.00               9.75
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.00              47.03
1513    1978   Seventh Power                     _       109.00              91.44
S009    1978   Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Trp. Eng.   10.00                   0.16
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.00             130.76
1579    1978   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.00             25.86
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                  62.90
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.00              66.94
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.00              50.42
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.00              47.73
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.00             40.40
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             130.00             123.58
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.00              49.92
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.00              90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.00             162.14
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.00              34.96
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders III          99.00              95.05
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                     116.00             116.00
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders IV           42.00              41.44
1840    1980   Nat. Ag. Research Project                  35.00              35.00
1869    1980   Third Population Project                   35.00              35.00
1872    1980   Ninth Power Project                       253.00             245.18
1898    1981   S'holder Coconut Dev. Project              46.00              46.00
1904    1981   University Development Project             45.00              45.00



- 29 -                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 26 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
.redit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits               3,147.00  931.80
less cancellations                              -0.46   -1.47
Total                                          3,146.54  930.33
of which has been repaid                       -58.39   -1.23
Total now outstanding                          3,088.15  929.10
Amount sold to third party             28.24
Anount repaid by third party          -25.15      -3.09
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a              3,085.06  929.10
Total undisbursed                              2,030.42  377.67   2,408.09
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 26 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of November 30, 1980)
Fiscal                               Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor               business           ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement             10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles            2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable               2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5      1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism              11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics         0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.       -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            0.4         -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles            0.9         -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market      4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0      53.0
Total gross commitments                           114.8      17.7      132.5
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                70.0       2.2       72.2
Total held by IFC                                  44.8      15.5      60.3
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   29.1          6.0       35.1



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 26 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                             6-9
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811 and 995)
Other Agriculture Production (319, 358, 400, 480,                           9-12
1318, 1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835, 984 and 1898)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)              12-13
Rural Development (946)                                                     13
Agro-Business and Credit (785 and 827)                                        14
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692 and 1904)                        14-17
Energy (1259, 1365, 1513, 1708 and 1872)                                     17-18
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (1254)                                               18
Industrial Estates (428)                                                   19
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                        19
Population and Nutrition
Population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                           19-20
Nutrition (1373)                                                           21
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                     21-22
Transportation
Highways (1236 and 1696)                                                    22
Marine Transport (1250)                                                     23
Ports (1337)                                                               23
Tourism (479)                                                                 24
Urban Development (1336 and 1653)                                            24-25
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                  25
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 26 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion. Consequently, the closing date of
December 31, 1980, has been postponed for two years to December 31, 1982.
All major contracts for civil works have been awarded. The total project
cost is currently estimated to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1984,
about three years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to
a delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of another year due to delayed land acquisition, delayed payments
to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation. The total
project cost is currently estimated at $227 million, which is 38% above the
appraisal estimate. Disbursements are currently about 50% of the appraisal
estimate, but are expected to significantly increase in FY80/81. All major
contracts have been awarded and sufficient funds are allocated for the
programmed construction this year.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 .Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Construction is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary develop-
ment areas, and studies being funded under the project are expected to be
completed shortly. The mapping progam is progressing satisfactorily.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is being implemented satisfactorily, although disburse-
ments are currently about 80% behind the appraisal estimate largely due to



ANNEX II
- 33 -                 Page 7 of 26 pages
delays in the Madiun rehabilitation and Ciujung drainage components, and
partly due to late payment to contractors. Disbursements are expected to
improve in succeeding semesters because of increased activity in these
components.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
After an initial slow start in the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation
System, which is to provide new irrigation facilities to transmigrants and
local farmers over a 3,500 ha area, good progress is being made in awarding
all major contracts, including the construction of a pumping station. The
balance of the contracts are proposed to be awarded in FY80/81. When the
pumping station is completed and plant installed, water can be supplied to
part of the 3,500 ha area by December 1981, or at the latest by March 1982.
The Sedeku Irrigation Rehabilitation and Drainage System is proceeding without
the Iragung Dam being built. The Government decided not to construct major
dams in Java, including the Iragung. This has required a review of the
designs and a revision of cost estimates to be incorporated in continuing
contracts and future works, thus causing further delays. Ten projects are
included for feasibility studies: three appraised by the Bank in June 1979 and
one recommended for financing by KfW. Studies of the remaining seven projects
will be completed shortly. Because of the delays in project implementation,
the project is expected to be completed by March 1983, a delay of 21 months,
presuming no new constraints develop. It is expected the current closing date
of December 31, 1981 will have to be extended.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Delay in implementation of the project components is about 12
months. Some delays have occurred in awarding contracts and the construction
program will have to be accelerated to achieve the completion target. Pro-
gress of studies of dams and irrigation subprojects is behind schedule due
to the late awarding of contracts for aerial mapping for the Kali Progo, Way
Seputih and Way Sekampung areas. Progress on studies at Dumoga and Gumbasa
has been satisfactory. The staff of the PIBD, the Executive Body for Major
Irrigation Projects with World Bank Assistance, will have to be strengthened
in order to cope with the increased construction program from FY80/81 onwards.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Due to slow progress the project is currently estimated to be
completed in March 1983, a delay of about one year. The Hydrologic
Measurement Program, after initial inaction on the consultants work program,
and delay of one year in procurement of equipment, is now progressing well and



- 34 -                    ANNEX II
page 8 of 26 pages
estimated to be completed by September 1982. Studies for a master plan for
the development of the Cimanuk River Basin were completed in January 1980 and
a final report is under preparation. Detailed designs of flood control works
of the Lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and Ciwaringin Rivers have been completed and
construction is proceeding under Loan 1691-IND. Due to unfavorable foundation
conditions at the dam site and GOI's decision not to construct large dams on
Java this component is indefinitely postponed and an alternative use of loan
funds is under consideration.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: H4ay 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 50,866 ha has been completed and the
balance of the area would be covered in three fiscal years 80/81 to 82/83.
The Cisedane drainage works have not commenced due to a delay in the
acquisition of construction to FY81/82, except one contract programmed to be
awarded in FYSO/81. Completion of this component of the project is currently
estimated to be delayed by over one year subject to right of-way acquisition
being completed early 1981. Consultants for studies of tidal swamp areas and
drainage blocks are engaged and expected to be completed by July 1981 with a
delay of six to eighteen months compared to appraisal estimates. The project
is currently estimated to be completed by March 1984, a delay of one year.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Initial progress is satisfactory. Consultants have been engaged for
the construction supervision and studies provided under the project. The
construction of river training works and flood protection levees under six
on-going contracts is progressing well and on schedule. Land acquisition for
the rights-of-way is being handled with the assistance of private land
surveying companies which has significantly reduced the time to about six
months. No further difficulties are foreseen for this aspect of the project.
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective on July 3, 1980.



- 35 -                   ANNEX II
Page 9 of 26 pages
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
This credit was declared effective on July 3, 1980.
Other Agriculture Production Projects
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: $11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The planting program under the project has been completed and the
construction of processing facilities should be completed by the middle of
1981. Production, profitability and costs of PNP X continue to be satisfac-
tory. PNP X has expanded its operations further under Loan 1499-IND
(NES I), and its work on planting rubber for smallholders under NES I and
under Loan 1318-IND (Transmigration I) is progressing well. Although there
are some temporary difficulties relating to completion of the palm oil mill
and rubber processing facilities, overall project performance remains very
satisfactory.
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia and
extension advice through a Project M4anagement Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the target area has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. While production will not be adversely affected
(replanting yields are higher), costs are estimated to exceed appraisal
estimates by about 60% tecause replanting is more expensive due to inflation.
The project has made a significant impact on the private sector of the
Indonesian tea industry. The project training program is especially
noteworthy having now involved more than 9,000 smallholders through practical
village training schemes.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 26 pages
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by GOI's skipjack tuna enterprise
and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have been
ordered and are due to be delivered early 1981. The quality of fishpond
lending by Bank Rakyat Indonesia suffered early deficiencies, but is now
completed; results are patchy and arrears excessive in some areas. Coverage
is much less than appraisal forecast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details
not yet available, but inflation and the inability of smaller owners to
participate are probably the reasons.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Although the project is still about eighteen months behind
schedule due to early slippage in implementation, since last year per-
formance has shown considerable improvement. To date about 2,760 families
have moved into Baturaja, equivalent to 61% of the ultimate target. Construc-
tion of water supply reservoirs has accelerated and has reached 50% of target.
Contracts for construction of the last three villages have been signed; the
pasture development program is well established and cattle procurement has
restarted. The rubber planting is proceeding well and the cropping systems
trials are continuing satisfactorily. Funding is no longer a problem and dis-
bursements are in line with the revised schedule and have reached 51% of the
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There have been delays in the implementation of the project. Land
clearing and road construction are now about six months behind appraisal
estimates due to: (i) the rejection of large areas identified for site
development in the appraisal report due to unsuitability for the agri-
cultural development proposed; (ii) weak overall project organization and
management; and (iii) delays in contractor's and consultant-s engagement.
More recently, significant numbers of unauthorized settlers have been found
in areas presently identified for site development, and the GOI has proposed
some changes to design criteria for the large areas already prepared. These
matters are being reviewed with GOI but will likely take some time to resolve.
Consequently, completion of project works and settlement of families are now
expected to lag at least one year behind appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project's overall planting program is ahead of schedule in
PTP XI and in other estates almost on appraisal target. The conditions of the



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 26 pages
plantations are good and preparations for the completion of the remaining
works well advanced. Construction of settler houses and roads is behind
schedule although less settlers are on the sites than targeted at appraisal.
In view of the recent amendments to the loan agreement, the managements of the
nucleus estates are now fully in command and speeding up the construction of
the houses for settlers. It is expected that the project will be completed
about the end of 1982 or one year later than expected. Disbursements are
below the appraisal estimate, but now acceleration is expected. The newly
established "Team Khusus" (Special Team) in the Directorate General of Estates
is of great assistance to the execution of the project.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Planting program is almost on schedule, but housing, roads and
village development is delayed. PTP IV management is undertaking the
acceleration of the civil works program. Tendering of main acess and primary
village roads is in process and works executed and supervised by Bina Marga
(Directorage General for Uighway Construction) are expected to start early
1981. Upgrading of the Sungai Tiga Extension and Training Center is proceed-
ing expeditiously. The new management of PTP IV is endeavoring to accelerate
and improve project execution. Funds for executing the FY80/81 work program
are available in the approved budget. Preparation of the FY81/82 budget is
in process and its approval on time is expected.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is off to a good start. Reasonable progress has been
achieved in the estate development components, and preparations being made
to start implementation of the smallholder components this year should
result in the planting of about 5,000 ha of smallholder rubber and the
settlement of the first 600 participating settlers by March 1981.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders IV:  $99 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective on August 11, 1980.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project has got off to a satisfactory start in spite of late
approval and release of the first year-s budget. There are no major problems
with the project at this stage and it is anticipated that about 75% of the



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 26 pages
first year s planting program will be achieved. Disbursements in FY81 are
expected to reach US$3 million equivalent.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development Project:  $46 Million
Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan has just been declared effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall progress is acceptable. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (AARD) civil works in Pangragajian have been
completed, in Margahayu are ahead of schedule, in Baruajak (all highland
vegetables) have been completed (slightly behind schedule), while in Sungei
Putih, Sembawa (both rubber) and in Sukamandi (Phase I rice and paliwija
crops) are behind schedule due to shortage of labor and difficulties in
procurement. Tenders for Sukamandi Phase II have been issued and contracts
have been awarded for field and workshop equipment, furniture and vehicles.
Tenders for laboratory equipment and chemicals for Margahayu are expected to
be issued shortly. In addition to 60 long-term fellowships abroad, 247 long-
term domestic fellowships have been arranged. Under the Agency for Agricul-
tural Education, Training and Extension (AAETE) most of the equipment,
furniture and vehicles have been received and distributed to ten completed
agricultural information centers (AICs). Extension naterials are being
produced and distributed from the AICs. Disbursements under the project are
improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project management unit has been strengthened by creation of
new positions which brings the number of assistant directors to five,
divisional chiefs to four and section heads to eight. Due to a dearth of
suitable senior staff, one assistant director, two divisional chiefs and four
section heads are working on a part-time basis. Vacancies in the posts of
field extension workers (PPL) and subject matter specialists (PPS) in the
Other Islands are proposed to be filled up by recruiting PPLs from Java and by
upgrading suitable PPLs for appointment as PPSs. Construction of 165 new
Rural Extension Centers (RECs) and renovation of 52 RECs out of a total of 645
for 13 provinces have been completed. Progress of civil works has suffered
due to an initial delay in prefinancing, inflation and inadequate supervision.
Most of these problems have largely been overcome and all remaining contracts



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 26 pages
are expected to be awarded by end-1980. Procurement of vehicles, equipment
and furniture as well as in-service and overseas training are progressing
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $24 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project is the second phase of a national program for strength-
ening agricultural extension services in Indonesia. The project would cover
26 provinces of Indonesia, proceeding on a phased basis to expand the food
crops extension services to the 13 provinces excluded from the first phase,
to introduce: (a) a unified extension service for transmigration areas; and
(b) extension of technical recommendations covering smallholder estate crops,
livestock, inland fisheries and soil conservation activities into the
extension program developed heretofore for food crops. An implementation
schedule for five years has been prepared. Standard bid documents for civil
works and procurement are in the process of finalization.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops. The
Project Implementation Unit has been strengthened by appointment of four
heads of the offices but one head of office and the project secretary are
yet to be appointed. A Ministerial decree announcing the appointments of
directors for the Central Research Institutes and Research Institutes and
Centers already approved by the Minister of Agriculture, is expected to be
published shortly. Implementation schedules for the next nine years have been
prepared. Standard bid documents for civil works and procurement have been
finalized. Tender documents for civil works in six location for which
provision has been made in the budget of 80/81 are in the final stage of
preparation and tenders are expected to be issued shortly.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Implementation of this project is behind schedule. The principal
reasons for delays are (i) the late release of project funds, and (ii) the
lack of appropriate salary scales conforming with government regulations.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 26 pages
These factors have resulted in low morale of project staff and distrust on the
part of some farmers. Disbursement conditions have not yet been met due to
part-time rather than full-time project positions.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, which provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia's (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP, became
effective August 17, 1978. Despite start-up difficulties, BI has now
established and staffed all project management units. The three field units
in Central Java, East Java, and West Sumatra are developing new lending
approaches and assisting handling banks in project promotion and preparation.
The training and studies components of the project are progressing satis-
factorily.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. Due
primarily to delays in obtaining project consultancy, the project is about
nine months behind schedule.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
This first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Delivery of books takes
about one month to a year depending on the location of schools. The Project
Implementing Unit advises that the remaining 50 million textbooks (grades 5
and 6) are expected to be printed and delivered before the present closing
date. Project costs have increased due to the increased scope of the project
and inflation since 1973.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 26 pages
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, to improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices and to assist in strengthening education planning and management.
The project would establish a Technician Education Development Center (TEDC),
six polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and include
technical assistance and associated studies. The engineering technicians
(polytechnic) component is making good progress. Staff appointments follow
the appraisal schedule. Site grading for the TEDC and the Bandung polytechnic
has been completed. Construction of the TEDC and the six polytechnics has
started. Equipment for the TEDC has been awarded. The expert services and
fellowship program are progressing satisfactorily. The accountancy component
after initial delays is now making good progress.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The three subprojects under the Ministry of Education (MOE),
Ministry of Manpower (MOM) and National Institute of Administration (LAN),
are to provide buildings, furniture, equipment and technical assistance
respectively for four Technical Training Centers (TTCs) and two Faculties of
Technology in Teacher Training Colleges (FKTs) for MOE; 17 new Vocational
Training Centers and 25 mobile training units for MOM; and the principal
civil service training institute in Indonesia (LAN). The Project suffered
initial delays due to slow site acquisiton and late contracting agencies.
Additional delays due to slow awarding of contracts for physical facilities,
late release of budget funds, late ministrial approval and slow settlement of
contractors claims to adjust contract prices for the 1978 Rupiah devaluation:
all these reflect limited management capacity. As of now, the MOE component
is nearly completed; all but one TTC are in operation and about $11 million of
equipment (93%) has been contracted. The MOM component has progressed slowly,
resulting in a 2-year delay. About 60% of civil works have been contracted
and 31% of equipment has been awarded. The LAN-s civil works are only 20%
complete, and estimated to be completed by mid-1981, two and a half years
behind the appraisal estimate. Procurement of furniture and equipment follow
the civil works schedule. The technical assistance program for all project
components is being satisfactorily completed. Loan disbursement has improved
significantly in the last six months but overall delays required a
postponement of the closing date by two years to December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. About 35% of civil
works have been awarded and 30% completed. Corresponding percentages for



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 26 pages
equipment are 40 and 28. Five more civil works contracts are being awarded
during July 1980, and the remaining six sites are being acquired. The staff
training program is on schedule and development of new curricula and instruc-
tional materials is progressing satisfactorily. Special seminars and courses
for administrators have been conducted and 60 members of the national team
of 150 educators have been appointed as disseminators to overcome slow adjust-
ment at the institutional level to new curricula and teacher training methods
developed under the project. The technical assistance program is on schedule
and successful. Despite earlier delays and low disbursements (35% of
appraisal estimate), the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover civil
works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial centers,
instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of
the six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, four
have been completed. The extension to the existing Jakarta center is 50%
completed and the Samarang center is 10% completed; both centers will be ready
by the end of 1980.  All furniture and equipment have been ordered; 10% is
already on site and the rest is due to arrive later this year. About 80% of
the staff training program is meeting appraisal targets, production and
distribution of pretested learning materials have started, and 1,500 learning
funds are being distributed to selected learning groups. The technical
assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually replacing foreign
consultants. Disbursements will increase substantially this year and are
expected to reach $4.5 million or 72% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. It
finances the renovation, furnishing and equipping, expansion and relocation of
26 existing agricultural development schools and 16 existing agricultural
in-service training centers; and the construction and furnishing and equipping
of 5 agricultural development schools and 7 agricultural in-service training
centers. It also provides technical assistance for the improvement of
curricula, education planning and evaluation. Physical implementation is
generally on schedule. A number of problems affecting educational aspects are
emerging; action is being taken to prevent them impeding project progress.
The fully staffed Project Implementation Unit is operating effectively.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1904   University Development Project:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980;  Effective Date:  January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan has just declared effective.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Disbursements on this project have been somewhat slower than anti-
cipated due to delays in placing orders for the third lot of equipment.
These orders have now been placed and on the basis of contracted deliveries,
the situation is expected to improve. Physical progress has been
satisfactory on extension of the 20 kV distribution lines, but very slow on
the installation of the 20 kV stepdown cubicles. Delay is due to
difficulties in acquisition of substation sites. The closing date has just
been postponed from March 31, 1981 to December 31, 1981 in order that
disbursements can be completed.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction of the fourth and fifth generating sets (200 MW each)
has been delayed. The fourth generating set is expected to be in commercial
operation around May 1981, about 9 months later than the contract date, but
only 3 months later than forecast at appraisal. Engineering of the Semarang 3
(Seventh Power) project and of the Java Interconnected system has been
completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts have been awarded at highly competitive costs with
a substantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
loan has been cancelled. Delays in award of contracts for civil works
caused by introduction of new procedures for such contract awards by GOI
have resulted in a three-month delay in the construction program. This will
delay commissioning of the 200 MW generating set which is now expected in
August 1982.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Contracts for turbine generators, ancillary plants, piling work,
and civil construction have all been signed. Bid documents for steelworks
and cladding were issued in August and are being evaluated. The tender
documents for marine works have been delayed due to a change in the design
concept. The revision in the scope of the marine works will increase
original appraisal estimates and final cost estimates are being worked out.
Schedules are being revised in order to minimize delays. It is expected
that the overall delay in the commissioning date for the first unit will be
about three months. No delay is expected in the scheduled commissioning
date of the second unit.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This loan has only recently been declared effective. Tenders for
EHV lines and substations were issued in July 1980; bids were received in
December 1980. The issue of the documents was about ten weeks behind
schedule. Aerial survey has been completed. Profiling and tower spotting
in the field have commenced. Land for substations at Suralaya, Ungaran and
Gandul substations has been purchased. No delay is expected in the land
acquisition for the other substation at Bandung and tower locations. Design
and specifications for the Java control center are being finalized.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1254   Third Fertilizer Expansion:  $70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned on November 26, 1977,
about four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly
470,000 tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first
year of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded in
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun. The closing date
of this loan has just been postponed by six months to June 30, 1981, in
order that procurement under an existing contract can be completed.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 26 pages
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 400 ha of raw land now earmaked for acquisition, 331 ha had
been purchased as of early 1979. 127 ha of the 270 ha of developed land
reserved for factory use has been sold to 107 firms, with full capacity
employment estimated at around 22,000. Slack sales and difficulties in
land acquisition have reduced the amount of land planned for sale from 337 ha
to 270 ha. Operations are profitable with a cash surplus and bank deposits
of Rp 2,389 million over the past three years to the project owners, the
Municipal Government of Jakarta and the Government of Indonesia. COI has
agreed to designate 22.5 ha of the Pulo Gadung industrial estate as an Export
Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT JIEP as the sole administrator. The closing
date of the credit was therefore postponed by two years to December 31, 1982
and the EPZ is expected to be completed within this period.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The performance of the Indonesian national family planning program
continues to show satisfactory results. Since 1972/73 the program targets



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 20 of 26 pages
have been fully achieved and, in some cases, exceeded. The implementation of
the project is in its final stages. The construction of all buildings has
been completed and furniture and equipment procured, offices in Jakarta and
six provinces have been occupied and all provincial and subprovincial training
centers and nine nurse/midwife training schools are in operation. Most of the
population education activities have been completed and the remainder are
expected to be completed this year. The production of films and procurement
of a computer financed out of savings under this project is expected to be
completed in 1981. Because of delays in the signing of the computer
contract and in order to allow sufficient time for its purchase, install-
ation and subsequent disbursement, it is now clear that final disbursements
will not be completed until about mid-December 1981. The Closing Date has
therefore been postponed until December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed.
The major issues outstanding are (a) expediting the implementation of the
contraceptive raw materials study, (b) implementation of the community
incentive scheme, and (c) acceleration of the rate of disbursement.
Regarding the contraceptive raw materials study, the mission was assured
that all obstacles will be overcome and progress should be faster in the
coming months. The community incentive scheme has been redesigned and the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN) undertook to prepare
an operational plan for review. This is expected shortly and we expect
implementation to start on schedule early 1981. Progress on these aspects,
coupled with timely submission of withdrawal applications, should
contribute to the acceleration of the rate of disbursement. The BKKBN is
also reviewing the costs of the project in order to determine the extent of
savings. We expect to receive the revised costs as well as proposals for
utilization of project savings, if any, shortly.
Loan No. 1869   Third Population:  $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1980 and a
smooth start to project implementation has begun. A Ministerial Decree
establishing a steering committee and appointing a project coordinator has
been signed. Civil works constitute the largest component of this project
and considerable attention is being given to this component so that delays
will not occur; the mission recommended that the staff entrusted with the
handling of this project be brought to at least the strength of that
provided for the second project (Loan 1472-IND).



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 21 of 26 pages
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
As a result of recently strengthened management, the pace of
implementation is beginning to pick up in most components. The new
campuses of the Food Technology Development Center (FTDC) and the Center
for Research and Development in Nutrition (CRDN) were completed and
formally opened in December 1980. Consultants and equipment for these
centers are arriving, but further FTDC procurement has been held up due to
procedural complications in the Ministry of Education. New staff posts have
been created and fellowships awarded, although both at a slower rate than
foreseen at appraisal. Research projects are underway, but for CRDN a long-
term research program remains to be formulated. Field activities of the
Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project (NIPP) are underway in some 90
villages, but operations are hampered by lack of special equipment.
Evaluations of NIPP process and impact are planned for late 1980. Their
results will largely determine the extent of NIPP modification needed and
the scope for (and pace of) NIPP expansion given the Government's current
commitment for a massive extension of a simpler community nutrition program
delivered through the National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN)
and the Ministries of Health, Religion and Agriculture to cover 41,000
villages by early 1984 awith assistance from UNICEF and USAID. Anemia
Control activities in plantations in East Java, North Sumatra and South
Sulawesi are progressing as scheduled, and productivity resurveys are
planned for September/October 1980. The home and village garden program
exceeded the target coverage (by 72) of 108 villages, and will be expanded
on the basis of a master plan currently under preparation. Nutrition
communication materials are ready for reproduction and distribution; their
effectiveness will be evaluated in mid-1981. Considerable savings are
expected under the project; the Government has prepared a package of
proposals in line with existing component objectives and activities. These
proposals will be reviewed during the next mission.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 22 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1197   Nationial Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Happing
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, and printing equipmenit required to produce maps is
installed. Resource evaluation activities, including the compilation of data
for Southern Sumatra and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of
coconut lands to be replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in
the new complex.  Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior
operatives, has accelerated. The new photography financed under the
parallel Canadian project will shortly be available, by which time
BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have installed color photo processing equipment and to
have fully trained specialized teams of operatives in the various map
production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective-Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December-31, 1982
Assuming the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) takes the agreed
actions to deal with design changes, the only problem remaining is that some
DGH payments to contractos are beginning to be in arrears due to underesti-
mates of fiscal year requirements; this may again affect physical progress
after a dramatic improvement since December last year.  A recent mission dis-
cussed the issue again with GOI, and requested a solution.  Overall, the
project is 76% complete (July 1980) compared to 55% (December 1979). Project
completion is still about 24 months behind due to initial start-up delays,
poor performance by a few road contractors (contracts cancelled and awarded
to second lowest bidders), and GOI will need to request a two-year extension
of the Loan's Closing Date to December 31, 1982. According to cost estimates
available, there may be a surplus of about $8-14 million in the loan, which
could be used as follows: (a) adding justified works to existing contracts
(logical extensions) where contractors are performing well, designs are
available and the works can be completed in about 1-1/2 years, within the new
closing date; and/or (b) increasing the disbursement rate for construction but
not to exceed the total foreign exchange cost. DGH is now updating the
project cost estimate, together with proposals for utilization of any loan
balance.



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 23 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million-Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date:  August 28,-1979, ClosintgDate:
December 31, 1984
The project is still about one year behind in implementation which
cannot be regained. Nine road betterment contracts, totalling 531 km out of
the 800 km planned, were awarded. The balance is soon to be proposed for
tendering. The bridge replacement program is more than a year behind schedule
but the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) has agreed on steps to initiate
it. DGH is evaluating equipment tenders for the eight Provincial Public Works
Department (DPUP) programs, with delivery expected in M4arch/April 1981, but
recent developments regarding the content of civil works in these programs
raise some issues. Consultants are in place for construction supervision,
project monitoring, management assistance, a study of the construction
industry and one of three consultancies supervised by the Ministry of
Communications. Terms of reference and short lists of firms have been agreed
and invitations are soon to be issued for consultancies to assist road
contractors and consulting firms, and the implementation of the eight DPUP
programs. Little action has been taken by DGH on other consultancies, e.g.,
remaining feasibility studies and detailed designs of additional road better-
ments, urban planning, and equipment management, but DGH will soon submit
proposals to the Bank for review.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date:  October 8, 1976;Clo) ing Date
December 31,1981
The project is part of the first phase of the Government s Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Demand for general cargo
ships in the Regular Liner Service (RLS) expected at appraisal was slow in
materializing due to (i) slow scrapping of obsolete ships with consequent
reduced replacement demand; and (ii) effects of the rupiah devaluation on
the price of replacement ships. Conditions considerably improved in 1979
and 80% of the loan has now been committed. The project entity, P.T. PANN,
is reasonably well managed; the operation and maintenance of its ships is
being regularly monitored and no major financial problems exist in its
Bank-financed operations. P.T. PELNI, the state-owned shipping line,
accounting for about half of the RLS, continues to incur substantial losses.
A condition of a recent subloan from P.T. PANN requires the early preparation
by P.T. PANN of a financial recovery plan with consultancy assistance. The
loan is expected to be fully committed by March 31, 1981, and the Closing Date
has just been extended by one year to December 31, 1981.



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 24 of 26 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works has
delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made. The
Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the impact of the 1978
Rupiah devaluation, are 98% completed, and the Basin III civil works finance
by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 65% completed.
Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are 37%
completed. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised construction
schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone overall
completion of the project to mid-1981 but it is too early to estimate the full
effect of delays on project cost.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the telephone network,
infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The hotel school and the practice
hotel are operating. Final designs for village improvements in Bualu and for
the new road from Bualu to Benoa are finished. The access road to Nusa Dua
from the airport is finished and the Denpasar by-pass road is scheduled for
completion shortly. The market for tourism to Bali has held up well in 1980;
hotel occupancy in international standard hotels exceeds 75%. The final
designs and tender documents for the first hotel at Nusa Dua to be built by
the national airline (Garuda) are complete, and construction is scheduled to
start shortly. The Bali Tourism Development Board (BTDB) is evaluating
additional minor infrastructure investments at Nusa Dua and possible
participation in several hotel projects to utilize the uncommitted portion of
the Credit.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second U.ban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
Novembe, 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated areas in Jakarta and 374 ha
in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 25 of 26 pages
program in both cities. Except for small carryover items (filter plant,
deep wells and health clinics) and the conduct of a proposed urban
transport study for Jakarta under the technical assistance component, the
project progress is essentially complete. Upgrading costs for the program
have been within the appraisal estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in
Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in Surabaya have been covered so far,
benefitting a total population of about 1.4 million. About 180 community
health workers in Jakarta and 88 in Surabaya have been trained and are
working in the improved kampungs.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The loan
became effective on September 26, 1979. The kampung improvement is
proceeding satisfactorily in Jakarta and Surabaya but start-up delays of
eight to ten months had been evidenced in the implementation of solid waste
management and drainage programs. In the secondary cities, the kampung
improvement program is now proceeding smoothly following a six to eight
months start-up delay during the first year implementation period (April 1,
1979-March 31, 1980).
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule and the Closing Date has been extended by
eighteen months. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts,
with the exception of pipe laying contracts (delayed because of slow
procurement of pipe), ar. under execution. A cost overrun of about 30%,
caused by increases in local costs due to project delays and devaluation, is
expected. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water
enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. Also, disbursements are expected to
accelerate now that contracts are signed and equipment and supplies are being
delivered.



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 26 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This loan was declared effective on February 29, 1980, five months
behind schedule. The main project is about six months behind schedule.
Design work is proceeding and procurement documents are being processed.
Tenders were called for an initial purchase of pipe and fittings and these
were opened in June 1980. Some other scheduled tenders may have to be
postponed because the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering (DSE) failed
to request sufficient government funds in the current fiscal year ending
March 31, 1981. DSE is exploring an alternative funding source to
circumvent this problem. DSE is overextended because of the extensive
water supply activity in Indonesia and the numerous aid offers and foreign
participation in the sector. It is at present in the process of increasing
its staff by 160 persons and also recruiting the services of a Resident
Management Specialist. It is to be hoped these two steps may help improve
its internal efficiency.



- 53 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
SWAMP RECLAMATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I- Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  3 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  P4S (Tidal Swamp Reclamation
Project Unit, Directorate General
of Water Resources Development
along with the Ministry of Public
Works) along with consultant
assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:       Early 1975
(d) First Bank mission to identify
the project:                         February 1976
(e) Dates of departure of appraisal
mission:                             November 1979
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations: October 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectivenes3:        April 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
(a) assign and post a regional coordinator not later than December 31,
1981; the P4S site manager not later than March 31, 1981; and the PTPT
and DGT site managers not later than January 31, 1982 (para. 43);
(b) employ consultants satisfactory to the Bank to assist P4S and DGCK
PTPT, DGT, and JMT (para. 43).



- 54 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) prepare a detailed annual O&M plan and provide an O&M project office
staffed with suitably qualified personnel by May 31, 1984 (para.
44); and
(d) monitor the effects of the project from fiscal 1984 until fiscal
1989 (para. 50).



2 t ~>                            *                 C>1  2
0      -   -  £ t  f       >   a
~~~~~~ - 000@  0'0t1 
X                       X      1                  gf°O-  
lg XIIIIIX                                                   i  I:;UI
<                  ft£ltiaz                                                 '
C               t # i S %  1                             j!S 
'4  5                                                           C-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m






C E HAfS                                                    PROJECT LOCATION                                                                 TYPICAL BLOCK LAYOUT
!N¢OR  F\          -                                                          aV-re  Pmjevtrea                                                                   Primry canal
s0u    n                 t         A             '\                   Swap:  ne|                                                                                Secondary canals
._ _ ,  , ia 4.. ._<Water lesl rscunders                                                                                        -      Temr iary canals
N   ni~~~~  eameroen    ~~~~~~~          *   ~metevenloqicat Statuas                                                                     F n Iads
To                                                        R----i- Himlet drainage
' -5  ff:; ......P.d-r......... -I ,d--g-
SUMIATR                                                                                                                                                   canalsRalwyswith ojtlnts
sEi n                                             -      t -                                                                     INDONESIA                 canals
Iam                         ' mife                 U         ./            Pr , e                                                                          --s  oect:rebbundary   ----Acesas
EA  -[t -                                                                           75r ...t3w
t     \ ~~ \                                      e  <o^- X   <, X\tivi   t  -I 
ej toeaan        -                                               -  0\                /K\t                            \\32 
-1   N-. .:        k  
1j            es t4                                 n/ et e '                                                                                            , 2    A-\&  
I  H                     X           \.                                                      X                                      ;      \ . ~N6
-   ~~~                As~~i'An  AGUNG                                             -
\'                                                             ALE
5yEReL e1cyy[IETA
,1S U M             R' 
X~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ *.                                                       MEER               i         32o,lt 000  2000c ,e,n0c
TA \2 |-                         Fnn 0nn    .-h
N                                                    ~~~~~~~~~INDONESIA
SWAMP RECLAMATION PROJECT I
GENERAL PLAN
7  ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ----  ~~~~~~~~~~~Project area boundary
X                                                                                                               z. mS h3e no.n Navigation canal
7                                     <A   x   -             -                  ------  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Primary canals
--Secondary canals
R[vern
--                                               i        -,  0      -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r-          N- ~~~~~~~Contours (meters)
-  -'  -                           C      <           N                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Forest area boundary
-   -                                                                                                          Hamlet teundaries
L -    X          \ 5-z08ics                                        a, .t                                    2iso.a.,.o/t ....... . ir E J i ' S Art/; o r an  ePmrorr eranK ererseRrent Or .........Main villOge
Pa                                        (I          /            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V ilages
-  -       ec' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...                              1   -~ N,   ,    I .I....11  .....



