O   IAL         LOAN NUMBER 1958 IND
DOCUMENT,
Loan Agreement
(Swamp Reclamation Project I)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated           4A   '      O         1981


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      34"04                  , 1981, between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "AARD" means the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development in the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(b) "Basic Agrarian Law" means Law No. 5/1960 of the Bor-
rower (UNDANG-UNDANG POKOK AGRARIA), as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(c) "DGCK" means the Directorate General of CIPTA KARYA,
Directorate General of Housing, Urban and Regional Development in
the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works;
(d) "DGF" means the Directorate General of Fisheries in
the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(e) "DGFCA" means the Directorate General of Food Crops
Agriculture in the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(f) "DGT" means the Directorate General of Transmigration in
the Borrower's Ministry of Manpower and Transmigration;
(g) "HAK MILIK" means the right of ownership in respect of
land as provided under the Basic Agrarian Law;


﻿-2-
(h) "HAK PAKAI" means the right of use in respect of land
as provided under the Basic Agrarian Law;
(i) "JMT" means the Borrower's Junior Minister for
Transmigration;
(j) "P4S" means PROYEK PEMBUKAAN PERSAWAHAN PASANG SURUT,
the Project Unit for Tidal Swamp Reclamation in the Borrower's
Directorate General of Water Resources Development in the Ministry
of Public Works;
(k) "PPL" means PENYULUH PERTANIAN LAPANGAN, an agricul-
tural field extension worker in the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture;
(1) "PPM" means PENYULUH PERTANIAN MADYA, an agricultural
field extension supervisor in the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture;
(m) "PPS" means PENYULUH PERTANIAN SPESIALIS, an agricul-
tural subject matter specialist in the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture;
(n) "PTPT" means PENYIAPAN TANAH PEMUKIMAN TRANSMIGRASI,
the Borrower's Directorate of Land Preparation for Transmigration
Settlement in the Borrower's Directorate-General of BINA MARGA,
Ministry of Public Works;
(o) "Project Area" means 9,000 hectares of a flat low lying
plain at Karang Agung in the Musi Banyuasin District, about 70
kilometers from the east coast of South Sumatra, and about 80
kilometers to the northwest of Palembang bounded in the southeast
by the Air Hitam, a tributary of the Calik river and in the
southwest by the Teluk Tenggulang river;
(p) "Project Coordinator" means the official in the office
of JMT, assigned to coordinate all activities related to trans-
migration projects receiving financial assistance from external
sources and whose duty station is Jakarta;
(q) "Project Implementation Agencies" means the project
implementation agencies which includes inter alia, P4S, PTPT, DGT,
DGCK and JMT engaged in the implementation, or assisting in the
implementation of physical works, in the Project Area;


﻿- 3 -
(r) "Regional Coordinator" means an official in the office
of JMT assigned to coordinate all activities related to the
implementation and operation of the Project and other tidal swamp
reclamation transmigration projects in South Sumatra and whose
duty station is Palembang; and
(s) "Settler" means a settler and his family settled in the
Project Area.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall. be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or cause (i)
P4S to carry out Parts A, B and H of the Project, (ii) PTPT to
carry out Part C of the Project, (iii) DGT to carry out Parts D, E
(excluding Part E.4) and F of the Project, (iv) its Ministry of
Health to carry out Part E.4 of the Project, (v) DGFCA to carry
out Part G (excluding Part G.3) of the Project, (vi) AARD to carry
out Part G.3 of the Project and (vii) JMT to program and coordi-
nate the implementation and operation of the Project through the
Project Coordinator and the Regional Coordinator, all with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agri-
cuxltural, engineering, management, administrative and financial
practices. The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon its obliga-
tions under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause (i) DGFCA to appoint two PPM's and six PPL's under the
supervision of a PPS to assist in the implementation of Part G.2
of the Project and (ii) AARD to appoint suitably qualified and
experienced research and support staff in adequate numbers to
assist in the carrying out of agricultural research.
Seccion 3.02. The Borrower shall appoint and post by not
later than December 31, 1981, a suitably qualified and experienced
person as Regional Coordinator.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist (i) P4S in the prepara-
tion of field surveys, final construction drawings, construction
supervision and construction management for the Project, and (ii)
DGCK in planning the subdivision of the Project Area and in
designing village facilities for the Project, the Borrower shall
by not later than March 31, 1981, employ international and local
engineering consultants.


﻿-5-
(b) In order to assist JMT in the programming and coordin-
ation of the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall by
not later than March 31, 1982, employ an international management
consultant.
(c) In order to assist PTPT in the supervision of land
clearing and DGT in the supervision of the construction of houses,
villages and comiunal facilities for the Project, the Borrower
shall by not later tba March 31, 1982, employ local engineering
consultants.
(d) In order to assist P4S in the carrying out of (i) a
nationwide inventory of coastal and near coastal swamp develop-
ments and ranking of development potentials, (ii) a survey of
selected existing swamp development to assess the viability of
their upgrading needs, (iii) an environmental impact study of
selected swamp developments the Borrower shall employ consultants
by not later than January 31, 1982.
(e) In order to assist P4S in carrying out a groundwater
investigation at Karang Agung, the Borrower shall employ con-
sultants by not later than March 31, 1982.
(f) In order to assist P4S, DGFCA, DGT and DGF in monitor-
ing the physical, ecological and socio-economic impact of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants by not later than
October 31, 1984.
(g) The qualifications and experience of the consultanto
referred to in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this Section, and
their terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project until its
completion.


﻿-6-
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause:
(a) P4S to assign and post by not later than March 31, 1981,
a qualified and experienced site manager to supervise the con-
struction of the hydraulic infrastructure who shall serve also as
field coordinator to coordinate land clearing, housing and settle-
ment in respect of the Project until the completion of the con-
struction of the main and secondary hydraulic infrastructure and
related structures.
(b) PTPT to assign and post by not later than January 31,
1982, a qualified and experienced site manager to supervise the
clearing of house lots and farm plots in respect of the Project.


﻿-7-
(c) DGT to assign and post by not later than January 31,
1982, a qualified and experienced site manager to supervise the
construction of houses and village facilities, the supply of
provisions, the settlement of settlers and to coordinate the field
activities of supporting agencies and, upon completion of the main
and secondary infrastructure and related structures of the Pro-
ject, to assume the post of field coordinator responsible for the
coordination of all Project activities.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that the health
center and sub-centers referred to in Part D of the Project are
constructed concurrently with the construction of the villages in
which they are to be located and that, for each such village at
least one such sub-center is constructed, adequately staffed and
made operational immediately prior to the settlement of the
first Settlers in such village.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause DGT, in cooperation
with the Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs in its Ministry
of Home Affairs, to issue a certificate evidencing: (i) HAK PAKAI
to each Settler to his 0.50 ha house lot and 1.75 farm plot within
one year after the date of arrival; and (ii) HAK MILIK to all of
each such Settler's land within 5 years after the date of arrival.
ATICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot


﻿-8-
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision
thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for
the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,
including gold and foreign exchange assets held by any institution
performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabili-
zation fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project., of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation on paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall cause: (i) P4S and PTPT to maintain separate
accounts in respect of the parts of the Project implemented by
such Agency; (ii) the accounts referred to in the foregoing
sub-paragraph (i) to be sent annually to the Project Coordinator
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) (vii) of this Agreement; (iii)
such accounts to be audited for each fiscal year in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (iv) to be furnished
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (v) to be furnished to
the Bank such other information concerning such accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-9-
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall (i) cause the navigation,
primary and secondary canals and all related structures and
inspection roadways constructed under the Project to be operated
and adequately maintained in accordance with appropriate engineer-
ing and financial practices, (ii) make available by August 15 of
each year half of the annual funds reasonably estimated to be
required and budgeted for the purpose in each such fiscal year and
the other half to be made available in two installments until all
the budgeted amounts have been made available, and (iii) provide
all facilities and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.04. In pursuance of the Borrower's undertaking in
Section 4.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall (i) cause a
detailed annual operation and maintenance plan for each fiscal
year to be prepared, the first by May 31, 1984, for the 1984
fiscal year and (ii) by not later than May 31, 1984, establish or
cause to be established, an operation and maintenance unit staffed
with qualified personnel for the Project Area.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause P4S, DGFCA, DGT and
DGF to monitor as from the 1985 fiscal year until the end of the
1989 fiscal year the physical and socio-economic conditions and
ecological impact of the Project and shall provide all the funds
and staff needed for the purpose. Copies of the reports prepared
by the abovementioned Project monitoring agencies shall be made
available to the Bank annually.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date use 3, 14t/ , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Se cti n 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 10 -
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for
International Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                  DJMLN   JKT 45799
JAKARTA                           DITJMON JKT 46415
DEPKEU JKT 44319
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
ByN
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By (/~
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works for:
Part A (excluding           11,500,000         100%
Parts A.5 and A.6),
Part B (excluding
Part B.2) and Part
C.2 of the Project
(2) Equipment for con-            1,500,000         100% of for-
struction supervision                          eign expendi-
and for Part 1.3 of                            tures and
the Project                                    95% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(3) Training fellowships            100,000         100%
(4) Consultants services          7,400,000         100%
under Part I (ex-
cluding sub-parts
4 through 7)
(5) Unallocated                   1,500,000
TOTAL      22,000,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement perce-ntage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
b-7e been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 13 -
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to reclaim and develop the Project
Area and to settle about 3,200 Settler families. It consists of
the following Parts:
Part A:   Hydraulic Infrastructure
(1) Clearance of about 800 hectares of land for the right-
of-way canals.
(2) Construction of about a 9-kilometer long navigation
canal.
(3) Construction of primary canals of a total length of
about 24 kilometers.
(4) Construction of secondary canals of a total length of
about 200 kilometers.
(5) Construction of about 200 kilometers of tertiaries and
of about 200 kilometers of small drains in about 100
hamlets and villages.
(6) Construction of field bunds along the perimeter of farm
plots.
Part B:   Inspection Roadways, Bridges, Navigation Jetties, Base
Camp and Associated Facilities
(1) Construction of inspection roadways along the navigation
and primary canals referred to in Part A of the Project.
(2) Construction of about 800 tertiary control structures
and of about 200 outlet structures for hamlet drains.
(3) Construction of about 10 pedestrian bridges on the
navigation and primary canals, about 100 pedestrian
bridges on secondary canals, about 100 jetties at
hamlets, 2 navigation jetties and one primary control
structure.


﻿- 15 -
(4) Construction of a base camp to house the construction
management staff, including inter alia, offices, mess
halls, living quarters, well water supply, generating
and communication facilities.
Part C:   Land Clearing
(1) Clearing of house lots and land for village facilities.
(2) Clearing of about 5,600 hectares of farm plots.
Part D:   Housing and Community Development
(1) Construction of about 3,200 houses in the Project
Area.
(2) Construction of community facilities in 6 villages in
the Project Area, including inter alia, primary schools,
health subcenters, places of worship, village offices,
storage areas and staff houses.
(3) Construction of expanded community facilities in one
main village, including inter alia, a lower secondary
school, a health center, a market place and staff
houses.
Part E:   Settlement
(1) Settlement of about 2800 families from Java or Bali and
about 400 local families in the Project Area.
(2) Provision of storage facilities for sufficient potable
water supply to Settlers.
(3) Distribution to Settlers of the standard assistance
package including, mosquito netting, sleeping mats and
cooking utensils.
(4)   Control of malaria in the Project Area.
Part F:   Supplies
(1) Distribution to Settlers of monthly subsistence rations
for a period of at least 18 months from the date of
arrival.


﻿16 -
Part G:   Agricultural Support
(1) Distribution to settlers of the standard agricultural
assistance package including, agricultural implements,
rice and vegetable seeds, seedlings for fruit trees,
fertilizer and pesticides.
(2) Establishment and operation of a rural extension center.
(3) Establishment and operation of an agricultural research
substation.
Part H:   Equipment and Materials
(1) Provision of boats, generators, telecommunications and
office equipment for project implementation supervision.
(2) Provision of boats, hydraulic, topographic and labora-
tory equipment and aerial photos for studies to be
carried out pursuant to the Project.
Part I:   Consultants' Services
(1) Management of the construction and implementation of
Parts A and B of the Project with the assistance of
consultants.
(2) Coordination of the implementation of the Project with
the assistance of consultants.
(3) Carrying out of studies relating to future coastal and
near-coastal swamp development, upgrading of existing
swamp developments and environmental impact studies with
the assistance of consultants.
(4) Management of the construction of houses and village
developments with the assistance of consultants.
(5) Planning of subdivision of the Project Area with the
assistance of consultants.
(6) Carrying out of a groundwater investigation at Karang
Agung with the assistance of consultants.


﻿- 17 -
(7) Monitoring of the physical, ecological and socio-
economic impact of the Project with the assistance of
consultants.
(8) On-the-job training of Project staff and fellowships for
training in remote sensing and ecological assessment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1985.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1986
through   November 1, 2000                  735,000
On May 1, 2001                                  685,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1.45%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                   2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   5.30%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                             7.70%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                             8.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                   9.60%


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for the excavation of canals, clearing of right-
of-way, blockage of creeks and construction of the base camp,
bridges, jetties and the tidal control structure, shall be grouped
together for the purposes of bidding and procurement.
4.   All contracts to be awarded in accordance with the provisions
of this Part A shall be awarded on the basis of the standard form
tender and contract documents.
5.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the


﻿- 21 -
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Indonesia may *be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Indonesia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from Group A or Group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from


﻿- 22 -
Group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each Group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
Group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the Group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the clearance of land for farm plots included
under Part C.2 of the Project shall be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding locally advertised in accordance with the
Borrower's procedures for such contracts.
2.   Contracts for aerial photography and satellite imagery,
recording and survey equipment, and miscellaneous equipment and
materials under Part 1.3 under the Project may be awarded, after
competitive bidding locally advertised in accordance with the
Borrower's procedures for such contracts; provided, however, that,
such contracts estimated to cost less than $32,000 equivalent may
be awarded after obtaining at least three quotations from exper-
ienced contracting and supply firms.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or more and with respect to all
contracts for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 23 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly ifform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this S_3 0Lday of .ar , 198 ±.
S      SE
FOR SECRETARY


