Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER  3383 IVC
Development Credit Agreement
(Distance Learning Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 26, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER  3383 IVC
Page  2
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 26, 2002, between the REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Distance Learning Center of Côte d’Ivoire 
(DLC-CI) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to DLC-CI the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and 
in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and DLC-CI;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements" 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Conseil
de
gestion
"
means the DLC-CI’s management body operating under 
articles 6 to 11 of the Decree (as hereinafter defined);
(b)
"Decree" means the decree No. 2000/186 dated March 17, 2000, adopted by the 
Borrower and which establishes DLC-CI;
(c)
"Distance Learning Center of Côte d’Ivoire" or "DLC-CI" means the Distance 
Learning Center established and implemented pursuant to the Decree;
(d)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and DLC-CI 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
Page  3
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(e)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance granted by 
the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 4, 1999 and 
October 20, 1999 between the Borrower and the Association;
(f)
"ENA" or "Ecole
Nationale
d
’Administration
"
means the Borrower’s National 
Administration School established pursuant to Law No. 271 dated September 2, 1960;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(h)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and DLC-CI pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement;
(i)
"CFA Franc" or "CFCA" means "Franc
de
la
Communauté
Financière
Africaine
", the 
currency of the Borrower;
(j)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual referred to in paragraph 3 
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and
(k)
"Business Plan" means the plan referred to in paragraph 2 (c) of the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
1,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in CFA 
Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Page  4
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the 
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time 
to time thereafter  pursuant to  paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall 
be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and 
July 15 commencing July 15, 2010 and ending January 15, 2040.  Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on January 15, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
Page  5
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated significantly, 
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction 
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause DLC-CI 
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of 
DLC-CI therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable DLC-CI to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall, under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the 
Page  6
(b)
The Borrower shall, under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and DLC-CI (the Subsidiary Agreement) and on terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Association, transfer the proceeds of the Credit to DLC-CI as a grant.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried out by DLC-CI pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures 
are retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
Page  7
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(
i
)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) 
of
this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(
i
i
)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(
i
i
i
)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that DLC-CI shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been 
Page  8
given by the Association to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
a memorandum of understanding, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, has been signed between DLC-CI and ENA;
(b)
the Borrower has appointed a Director and the key staff referred to in paragraph 
2
(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, i.e., atechnician (computer specialist with 
communications skills) a facilitator/trainer and an accountant/financial officer with functions and 
experience satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
DLC-CI has adopted a Project Implementation Manual, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association;
(d)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the Borrower and DLC-CI;
(e)
the financial management system referred to in paragraph 4 of the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement has been established and is operational;
(f)
DLC-CI has furnished to the Association a draft of its Business Plan for its first 
year of operation; and
(g)
an auditor satisfactory to the Association has been appointed, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, to audit the Project accounts.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized by DLC-CI and is legally 
binding on DLC-CI in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and DLC-CI and is legally binding on the Borrower and DLC-CI in accordance with its 
terms.
Page  9
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall 
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or 
on the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances
B.P. V 163
Abidjan
Republic of Côte d’Ivoire
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINFIN
23747 MINFIN
(225) 20 21 16 90
Abidjan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
Page  10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE
By
/s/  Pascal Kokora
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/  Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’ services,
90,000
     100%
training and audits
(2)
Incremental operating 
650,000
      80%
costs – Satellite
Bandwidth Rent
(3)
Refunding of
740,000
      Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
      to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
      of this Agreement
(4)
Unallocated
20,000
_________
TOTAL
1,500,000
__________ 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "incremental operating costs" means the 
incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs, salaries of 
DLC-CI personnel, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for operational costs, training and 
consultants’ services for: (i) firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; 
and (ii) individuals under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, under such terms 
Page  12
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are
 to: (a) test the viability and 
sustainability of distance learning as part of a global 
knowledge-sharing network to strengthen the capacity of public, 
private and civil society decision-makers and implementers to 
design, plan and manage economic and social development policies; 
and (b) establish a center of excellence in the region for 
distance learning and exchange of information and experience.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Distance Learning Retrofitting
Upgrading of facilities and equipment made available to DLC-CI by ENA, including: (i) 
provision of a video conference room with at least 30-person capacity, a computer room outfitted 
with at least 30 computer stations (hardware, software and internet hook-up), and a technical and 
administrative center; (ii) installation and/or upgrading of electrical and telephone wiring; and 
(iii) purchase and installation for DLC-CI of a Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT): satellite 
communication center, video, telecommunications and microprocessor equipment, office and 
classroom furniture and various other equipment for DLC-CI’s operations and security.
Part B
: Strengthening DLC-CI’s Operational and Financial Capacity
Strengthening the financial and operational capabilities of DLC-CI, including: (i) 
acquisition for DLC-CI of a vehicle to facilitate the transport and marketing of DLC-CI’s 
services; (ii) provision of technical advisory services for: (A) training of staff of DLC-CI; and 
(B) periodic evaluation of DLC-CI’s operations and management effectiveness; (iii) 
establishment of sound financial accounts for DLC-CI; and (iv) employment of an audit firm, 
acceptable to the Association, to carry out annual audits of DLC-CI’s accounts.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  13
Consultants’ Services
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 97 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the annual audit of DLC-CI may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning 
Page  14
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $15,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (2) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
50,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 
25,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total 
Page  15
25,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
700,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
Page  16
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the  Credit  Account of  the  remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
Page  17
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
