Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER  3383 IVC
Project Agreement
(Distance Learning Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER
Dated April 26, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER  3383 IVC
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 26, 2002 between the INTERNATIONAL 
Page  2
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER 
OF COTE D’IVOIRE (“DLC-CI”).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Côte d’Ivoire (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million five hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that  DLC-CI agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and DLC-CI, 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made 
available to DLC-CI on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS DLC-CI, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) DLC-CI declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
 
the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, educational, literacy and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
Page  3
financial, educational, literacy and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association and DLC-CI shall otherwise agree, DLC-CI shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, consultants’ services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) 
DLC-CI shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect 
of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, DLC-CI shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and DLC-CI, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
DLC-CI on said plan.
Section 2.04. DLC-CI shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DLC-CI shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) DLC-CI shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with 
the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
(b)
DLC-CI shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Credit, or the performance by DLC-CI of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Management and Operations of DLC-CI
Section 3.01. DLC-CI shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance 
with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the supervision of qualified 
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. DLC-CI shall at all times operate and maintain its buildings, office space, 
plant, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, financial 
and technical practices.
Section 3.03. DLC-CI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) DLC-CI shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition, and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b) DLC-CI 
shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
fiscal year, including those for the Project Account, audited in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Association 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of 
its financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements and 
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof, as 
Page  5
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof, as 
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, DLC-CI shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association for 
the strengthening of its financial system for the Project in order to enable DLC-CI, not later than 
twelve (12) months after the Effectiveness Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, 
to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association. Each such 
report shall:
(i)
set forth actual sources and application of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected 
sources and application of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report, and show separately 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explain variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and 
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
DLC-CI shall prepare in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project 
management report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of DLC-CI 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
 the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate; 
or
Page  6
(ii) 
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified in 
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify DLC-CI of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other addresses as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
For DLC-CI:
DLC-CI
Boulevard Latrille Deux Plateaux
Abidjan
Republic of Côte d’Ivoire
          Facsimile:
(225) 44 56 66
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of DLC-CI or by DLC-CI on behalf 
Page  7
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of DLC-CI or by DLC-CI on behalf 
of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by its 
Director, or by such other person or persons as DLC-CI shall designate in writing, and DLC-CI 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By      /s/   Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER
By     /s/   Pascal Kokora
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.
DLC-CI shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
Page  8
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, at the latest on September 30 of each year, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; and
(c)
review with the Association, by October 30 of each year, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter.
2.
(a)
DLC-CI shall be governed by a Board comprising eight representatives. The 
chairman of the Board shall be elected by members of the Board. The Board shall be responsible 
for: (i) overseeing Project implementation; (ii) monitoring of  DLC-CI’s management; (iii) 
deciding on DLC-CI’s development policy; and (iv) approving the annual Business Plan and 
DLC-CI’s program of activities.
(b)
The day-to-day management of DLC-CI’s operations shall be assigned to a 
Director with terms of reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, 
appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The Director shall be assisted 
by a team of suitably qualified and experienced staff consisting of a technician (computer 
specialist with telecommunications skills), a facilitator/trainer, an accountant/financial officer 
and an office assistant.
(c)
DLC-CI shall prepare a business plan (the Business Plan), in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which shall set out in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request market data, budget and sources of financing, training and other services to be 
provided under the Project, source and programming of training, pricing policy for different 
types of training and financial projections in the form of a budget, operating account and 
marketing strategy.
(d)
DLC-CI shall, no later than November 15 of each year, furnish the Business Plan 
for that year to its Board for approval and to the Association for review and comments. DLC-CI 
shall update the Business Plan annually and promptly furnish each updated plan to its Board for 
approval and to the Association for review and comments.
(e)
DLC-CI shall prepare and furnish to its Board, no later than 30 days after the end 
of each quarter, an activity report on its operations and progress made in carrying out the 
Business Plan during the quarter. Said quarterly report shall specify any problems encountered in 
the carrying out of the Project and include updated performance indicators on DLC-CI’s 
operations.
Page  9
3.
DLC-CI implements the Project in accordance with the terms of a Project 
Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. DLC-CI shall 
obtain the consent of the Association before making any material changes in the Project 
Implementation Manual; and (ii) shall not make any such changes in the Project Implementation 
Manual that are, in the opinion of the Association, likely to affect materially or adversely the 
carrying out of the Project.
4.
DLC-CI shall establish a financial management system for the Project in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association.
