Public Disclosure Authorized



                                                                                                                  44940
                                                          PROJECT DATA SHEET FOR

                                      Rural Land Management and Community Development Infrastructure
                                                             (Cr. N022-IVC)

                               Date: July 29,2008                              Task Team Leader: Daniel Sellen
                               Country: C8te d'Ivoire                          Sector Manager: Karen Mcconnell Brooks
                               Project Name: Rural Land Management             Country Director: Madani M. Tall
                               and Community Infrastructure                    Environmental category: B
                               Development
Public Disclosure Authorized




                               Borrower: Ministry o f Economy and Finance
                               Responsible agency: Ministry o f Agriculture and Animal Resources
                               Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
                                                                                                                     -
                               FY                07/08          08/09          09/10         10/11
Public Disclosure Authorized




                               Board approved        J
                               RVP approved          J

                               Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?       -Yes J N o
                               Have these been approved by Bank management?                                 -Yes - N o
                               I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                 - Yes J N o
                                                                                                        I

                               Revisedproject development obj ective/outcomes

                               N o changes to the project development objective. However, components and project
                               outcomes have been revised to respond to urgent needs in the country's post-crisis
                               context .
Public Disclosure Authorized




                               Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies?

                               Environmental category has been downgraded from "A" to "By'.Pest management
                               safeguard i s now triggered given the new emphasis on rice production in the restructured
                               project .



                               IBRD/IDA
                               Others




                                                                           5
A. Rural Land Management and Community Development Infrastructure Project
(PNGTER)

(i) Background and reasons for restructuring

9.      Project development objectives: The Project was approved on M a y 30, 1997 in
the amount o f SDR 29.6 million, signed on July 9, 1997, and declared effective on April
17, 1998. The Project's original development objectives are to: (a) facilitate land tenure
security over rural land; (b) strengthen local capacity to plan, make decisions, govern and
manage affairs at the local level; and (c) support small-scale investments for sustainable
natural resource management, agriculture and infrastructure development, to be
undertaken collaboratively by government and local communities. N o revision o f these
objectives i s proposed under the presented Project restructuring as they remain key goals
for rural land management in the current post-conflict environment. To achieve these
objectives, the Project was originally designed with four components: (i)    clarification of
land tenure, so as to certify land rights, facilitate conflict resolution and identify land
management and development options; (ii)     enhance local management capacity, which
assists communities to participate in local land development plans aimed at sustainable
management o f agriculture, pasture and forest land as well as associated water resources
and investment in village and inter-village infrastructure; ( i )   i i financing of local
investments, as specified in the local development plans; and (iv) support to
decentralization and project coordination. To adequately resume project
implementation in the current environment, these components are proposed to be
modified as described below.

 10.    Project performance to date: The Bank's supervision records (including the June
2000 Mid-term Review) show that the Project was achieving promising results, despite
the October 1999 coup and political crisis that led to the September 2002 coup attempt,
which ushered Cbte d'Ivoire into a long conflict period and suspension o f the Bank's
program due to arrears accumulation. The Project's land tenure component covered more
than two million hectares and led to a new land tenure code in 1998. T w o hundred local
land management committees were formed in villages and half o f these villages finalized
their documentation. Under the local management component, 250 villages assessed their
needs and developed plans through participatory rural appraisal techniques. However, the
financing o f these plans was limited due largely to a cumbersome financial system which
hindered disbursement o f this and other Bank projects at the time. As for the
decentralization component, the Project was able to make progress on the rural
commune's law and decentralization strategy, but the decentralization process was
derailed with the crisis and the assassination o f the Minister o f the Interior. The crisis
resulted in the immediate loss o f six o f the eleven project zones, which f e l l into rebel
hands (Forces Nouvelles). Despite the suspension o f Bank financing, the Project has
remained in place, however with losses o f staff and curtailed operational activity. Office
infrastructure has degraded, with vehicles and computers obsolete or in disrepair.

11.    Reasons for restructuring: There are several reasons for the project restructuring.
The country context has changed considerably since this Project was appraised. The
signing o f the Ouagadougou Peace Accord in March 2007 created hope in the country for


                                             6
political and social stability. Although the north o f CBte d'Ivoire i s s t i l l controlled by the
Forces Nouvelles, the country i s now working towards unification to allow free
movement o f civilians and government staff. However, the decentralization process,
including elections o f local governments, i s expected to take place with considerable
delays. In addition to adapting to the changed country context, restructuring i s necessary
to better align the Project's efforts and resources with the emergency needs o f the rural
population. AEter many years o f crisis, these needs are considerable. Three Project teams
completed an evaluation mission o f the former project zones in December 2007 and
produced a detailed report o n the status o f the Project and needs o f communities. The
proposed restructuring o f the Project i s largely based o n this evaluation. To summarize,
the recommendations o f the evaluation are to: (a) revive the hnctionality o f the local-
level committees through training and sensitization; (b) reinforce the coordination o f
Project activities at the local level; (c) recruit new staff and equip them with the
necessary communication and transport; (d) clarify the roles and responsibilities o f the
various development partners and reinforce collaboration o f the technical Ministries; and
(e) consolidate the activities o f the three components under Regional Coordination Units
and their field teams.

(ii)Proposed Changes

12.     Revised components and activities: As stated above project development
objectives remain valid in the current context but changes are proposed to restructure and
streamline i t s four components and related activities to adapt to the new country needs. In
addition, a component o n emergency assistance to boost rice production i s added to take
advantage o f higher food prices and assist vulnerable producer households in the north.

13.     Component 1: Clarifying land tenure (original component). This component
will remain intact. That is, it will help secure land rights and develop private and
government capacity to survey land and provide titles to interested right holders. The
component includes activities for land rights surveying, as well as maintenance and
management o f land rights information. The major challenge i s to test the application o f
the land tenure law. This component will continue to be implemented by the Ministry o f
Agriculture, and will be coordinated closely with the Ministry's Land Tenure department
and their activities, including those financed by the European Union. The Bureau
National d'Etudes et de De`veloppement (BNETD) will be the service provider for land
surveying.

 14.     Component 2 and 3: Enhancing local management capacity and financing of
local investments (original components). The component on local participatory
planning (Enhancement o f Local Management Capacity) and the related financing
component (Local Investments) will be combined. This simplifies the design and i s also
in line with Regional good practice in Community-Driven Development (CDD)
operations. Combined, this component will strengthen community capacity to plan,
implement, finance, and manage their own development, while working more
collaboratively with the State administration and the private sector. Communities' Local
Development Plans (LDPs) will be financed in terms o f packages o f infrastructure
activities, natural resource management efforts, and productive interventions.


                                                 7
8
operating in the North versus the South, implementation will be tailored to capacity, with
regional-specific approaches to be adopted. In the northern areas under control o f the
Forces Nouvelles, the land reform component will focus on sensitizing communities on
the land tenure law, whereas in the southern Government controlled areas the process of
tenure certification will continue. In the North, the Project will target urgent needs
quickly and will proceed on the basis o f an Emergency Investment Plan. In the South, the
Project will proceed on the basis o f (updated) LDPs, which were drafted earlier during
Project implementation.

18.    Changes in outputs: Outputs will remain essentially the same as in the original
project documentation, although quantitative targets will change (see below). An
additional set o f indicators will be added to take into account the new rice production
component.

19.     Changes in project costs: Proposed project cost changes are substantial and
reflect the change in components and emphasis explained above. These changes are
summarized in the table below.

20.    New closing date and implementation schedule: The activities o f the work
program agreed upon under the restructured Project will need 24 months to be completed.
Therefore, the Borrower proposes a new implementation period and extension o f the
Closing Date o f the Development Financing Agreement until August 31, 2010. A new
action plan and disbursement plan have been elaborated by the Borrower and reviewed
by the Association to allow the completion o f the activities by the new Closing Date o f
the Project.

(iii)Analysis

2 1.    Economic and financial analysis: Economic and financial analysis: The net
present value analysis contained in Annex 8 o f the 1997 Staff Appraisal Report shows
high rates o f return at 37.5 percent and 46.3 percent using economic and financial values,
respectively. W h i l e these results suggest high returns to investment, parameters used in
these calculations will have changed in the last ten years. Therefore, a review o f sub-
project economic analysis and overall economic returns to project components will be
required early in project reactivation.

22.     Sustainability o the revised PNGTER: As with the original conception, the
                          f
sustainability o f the Project rests on i t s focus on the natural resource bases and i t s ability
                                                   n
to sustain production in the long term. I addition, the emphasis on community
ownership o f the local development plans and L D P implementation will continue to be
the basis o f institutional sustainability. At the national level, sustainability will depend on
the Government's continued commitment to community-driven development, which will
in part depend on the success o f the PNGTER and other Bank-financed operations such
as the Post-Conflict Assistance Project, which uses a similar C D D approach.

23.     Environmental and social assessment: The environmental category o f the
restructured PNGTER has been changed from A to B in light o f the neutral or benign


                                                9
impacts expected. As part o f the reactivation o f PNGTER, an environment and social
management framework (ESMF) was prepared in June 2008 to evaluate social and
environmental implications o f Project-financed sub-projects. An I S D S has been prepared
and published in the Infoshop. There are no other changes or requirements concerning
safeguards.

(iv) Expected Outcomes

24.      The restructured Project will concentrate on achieving concrete results on the
ground to improve the welfare o f poor rural communities, particularly those most
impacted by the conflict. These outcomes will be emphasized at the expense o f original
activities more focused on capacity-building and studies.

25.    The proposed changes will not affect the Project's overall development objective.
However, the Key Performance Indicators and outcome targets were revised in light o f
the proposed changes for components and project areas (see Annex 1). The following
outcomes will be measured:

              Number o f land title deeds requested and processed
              Number o f land boundaries delimited
              Computer systems for title deeds introduced
              Percentage o f micro-project investment plans for which counterparts were
              mobilized
              Number o f functional Rural Land Management Committees
              Number o f formalized Village Land Management Committees and Local
              Development Councils
              Number o f micro-projects are managed in satisfactory manner according to
              criteria in the Project Implementation Manual
              Number o f envisaged contracts by Project unit have been issued
              Percentage o f indicators measured and updated on a quarterly basis

(v) Benefits and Risks

26.     Operational risks specific to the Project are s t i l l relevant as outlined in the April
1997 Staff Appraisal Report, although the relative success o f the Project up until 2002
demonstrated that certain risks were overstated. For example, communities have
demonstrated their willingness to accept the planning methods adopted by the Project.
The success o f the land tenure component has shown that potential social problems
associated with implementing tenure clarification can be managed. However, there are
additional overarching risks in the country's current post-crisis period that need to be
carefully taken into account for project reactivation (see section V. on Benefits and
Risks).




                                               10
(vi) Proposed Reallocation o f Funds

27. The following table compares the initial allocation with the proposed reallocation o f
funds.

                    Table 1: PNGTER Proposed Reallocation of Funds

                                             3riginal Allocation        e
                                                                       N w Allocation




                                             t
                                                  (in SDR)                (in SDR)
                                                    900,000                   40,000
                                                 10,500,000               5,050,000
                                                  4,100,000               2,605,000

                                                  3,500,000               1,030,000
                                                    300,000                 185,000
                                                    300,000                 110,000
                 New PART A                                                 600,000
                                                                            500,000
                                                                            180,000
                                                  8,100,000              16,825,000

                                                  6,500,000               5,805,000
                                                    300,000                 340,000
                                                  1,300,000                 720,000
                 New PART A                                               4,000,000
                 New PART C                                               3,000,000
                                                                          1,300,000
                 New PART F                                                  60,000
                                                                          1,600,000
                                                   900,000                2,960,000

                                                   300,000                  630,000
                                                   300,000                  160,000
                                                   300,000                  100,000
                New PART A                                                  740,000
                                                                            9 00.0 00
                                                                            430;OOO
                                                  1,600,000               1,600,000
                                                   500,000         I        360,000
          7    UNALLOCATED                        3,000,000                 160,000
               TOTAL                             29,600,000              29,600,000




                                            11
                           PROJECT DATA SHEET FOR

              Education and Training Support Project (Cr. 3079-IVC)


Date: July 29, 2008                          Task Team Leader: Michael Drabble
Country: C8te d'Ivoire                       Sector ManagerDirector: Eva Jarawan
Project Name: Education and Training         Country Director: Madani M. Tall
Support Project                              Environmental Category: B

Borrower: The Republic o f C8te d'Ivoire
Responsible agency: Bureau d'Ex6cution du Projet (BEP)
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
                                                                                    -
FY                  09             10           11


Current closing date: 06/30/2004
Revised closing date: 08/31/2010
Indicate if the restructuring is:

Board approved        J
RVP approved          J

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?   -Yes
                                                                         ~
                                                                              JNo
Have these been approved by Bank management?                             - Yes-No
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?             -Yes JNo

Revised project development obj ective/outcomes

The new project development objective o f the PASEF will be to assist the Ministry o f
National Education to resume the delivery o f education services in primary schools,
which implies (i)providing quality school inputs to guarantee teaching and learning in
                  i)
classrooms, and ( i improving access to education and retention o f primary school
children.




                  Source                          Local    I   Foreign       I   Total

IBRD/IDA
Others




                                           12
B. Education and Training Support Project (PASEF)

(i)Background and reasons for restructuring

28.     Project development objectives: The Project, designed as a Specific Investment
Loan (SIL), was approved on M a y 29, 1998 in the amount o f SDR 39.6 million, and
declared effective on September 25, 1998. I t s original closing date was June 30, 2002,
and i t was granted a first extension to June 30, 2004. The development objective - to
improve sector efficiency and school effectiveness while increasing access to basic
educational services in targeted underserved areas - was supported by five components:
(i) improve learning at the primary and secondary level; (ii)  expand access to schools in
                                      i idevelop the institutional capacity o f the Ministry
under-served and un-served areas; ( i )
o f National Education and Basic Training; (iv) enhance strategic sector planning and
sector coordination; and (v) project management. The project benefited three ministries -
the Ministry o f National Education, the Ministry o f Technical Education and Vocational
Training, and the Ministry o f Higher Education and Scientific Research - and project
management and coordination rested with a project implementation bureau (Bureau
d 'Exkcution du Projet, BEP).

29.    Project performance to date: The Project became effective end-September 1998.
Project implementation has not been successful and the Project has been rated
unsatisfactory with respect to i t s development objectives and implementation progress for
the majority o f i t s lifespan. Cumulative project disbursements amount to only SDR 4.12
million (US$5.72 million equivalent) and little progress, if any, was made v i s - h i s
achieving the intermediate or final outcome indicators.

30.     Reasons for restructuring: Given the devastation caused by years o f conflict, the
primary reason for restructuring the Project i s to align i t s objectives and activities with
the country's recovery needs and Government's post-conflict priorities, as articulated in
the Government's donor-endorsed Education Restoration Plan, prepared in mid-2007.
Furthermore, considering both the existing human and institutional capacity in the sector
and the limited time to complete project implementation, the scope o f the Project will be
simplified, focusing almost entirely on supporting the restoration o f basic education
service delivery.

(ii)Proposed Changes

3 1.    Higher level objectives to which the project contributes: The restructured Project
will support the Government's Education Restoration plan, and contribute to CGte
d'Ivoire's achievement o f the Millennium Development Goals and Education for All
goals, with the original objective o f achieving Universal Primary Education by 2010 now
obsolete. I t i s expected that the Government's forthcoming National Education and
Training Development Plan will use the year 2020 instead o f 2015 as a target to achieve
the Millennium Development Goal and Education for All goals.

32.      Revised development objective and scope: The new project development objective
o f the PASEF will be to assist the Ministry o f National Education to resume the delivery


                                             13
o f education services in primary schools, which implies (i)      providing quality school
                                                                    i)
inputs to guarantee teaching and learning in classrooms, and ( iimproving access to
education and retention o f primary school children. The Project's Key Performance
Indicators and intermediate indicators have been updated accordingly to reflect the
change o f the Project's development objective and activities (see Annex 2).

33.     In this restructured version, the PASEF will pay particular attention to results and
impact assessment, with a focus on monitoring children's enrollment in primary schools,
among them girls, with a focus on ex-conflict areas and poor rural areas. By the same
token, the retention o f school children will be assessed through the monitoring o f
repetition and completion rates. A detailed assessment o f the functioning o f primary
schools will be carried out in the second year o f the PASEF re-activation to ensure that
progress i s made in terms o f effective and qualitative restoration o f service delivery.

34.      Revised components and activities: The Project's new development objective will
be supported by activities in four components. W h i l e the components are largely similar
to the original project design - except that two have been combined - the scope o f the
activities has been curtailed (although a small number o f new activities have been added
in order to respond to new, post-conflict needs, such as the current food crisis and its
impact on school children and their education).

35.      Component 1: Improving the quality of basic education (original
component). This component will involve: (i)        developing, printing, and distributing
textbooks and teachers' manuals to achieve a ratio o f three textbooks for students in
grades 1 and 2, and five textbooks for students in grades 3 to 6, and improving the
existing textbook rental scheme in primary schools; (ii)  finalizing the primary education's
curriculum reform based on the competency-based approach and providing related
training to teachers and other pedagogic supervisors in the school districts;
  i istrengthening the national student evaluation system, conducting student evaluations
(i)
in one grade in primary and secondary education, and analyzing and distributing the
results; (iv) rehabilitating and re-equipping teacher training centers (CAFOP), providing
teaching and learning materials to student-teachers and training teacher-trainers in the
competency-based approach; (v) supporting the National Literacy Support Fund (FNAA)
to provide literacy training to 3,000 people (of which 75% women) in the zones under
Forces Nouvelles control; and (vi) purchasing, through the World Food Program, and
delivering food to 400 primary schools in the region o f Abidjan, Yamoussoukro,
Dimbokro, Daloa and Gagnoa from September 2008 to June 2009.

36.     Component 2: Supporting access to primary and lower secondary education
(original component). This component will finance the construction and equipping o f
300 primary classrooms, and 8 lower secondary schools - these will be largely new
constructions. The number o f teachers available i s adequate (including volunteers who
became de facto teachers during the crisis) and the education budget can support their
salaries. Despite some localized issues, there are no salary arrears.

37.   Component 3: Developing institutional capacity (combined component). This
component will include support and capacity building for each o f the three Ministries o f


                                            14
Education, but with a larger focus both financially and technically on the Ministry o f
National Education. First, the Project aims to reinforce the strategic and operational
capacity o f the Ministry through: (i) setting up and staffing o f a 4-person strategic
                                         the
executive unit located in the Minister's Cabinet; (ii) development and installation o f
                                                       the
                                                           i i the
an education and management information system; ( i ) strengthening o f human
resources in charge o f education statistics, human resource management, school mapping,
elaboration o f an education Country Status Report and support for the Education For All-
Fast Track Initiative endorsement process; and (iv) the re-equipping o f central and
decentralized Ministry o f National Education structures. Second, in both the Ministry of
Technical Education and Vocational Training, and the Ministry o f Higher Education and
Scientific Research, support will be provided for: (i) development and installation o f
                                                        the
                                                        i)
Education and management information system; ( i human capacity development -
notably by means o f technical assistance - in the areas o f statistics, human resource
management PEWEPTS; ( i )    i i studies and consultations for the elaboration o f national
strategies in the technical and vocational training sector and higher education; and
(iv) small provision o f vehicles and equipments for planning divisions and a few
decentralized structures in both Education Ministries.

38.       Component 4: Project management (original component). This component
will finance the running costs o f the project execution unit (BEP). The project execution
unit i s responsible for fiduciary management, civil works management, programming and
monitoring o f project activities, and production o f execution and audit reports.
Expenditures under this component will include: (i) purchase o f new equipment;
                                                            the
(ii)                    i iconsultant services; (iv) studies; and (v) training.
    operating costs; ( i )




                     Component                       Initial Project   Restructured
                                                         (PAD):          Project:
                                                      as % of total    as % of total
       1. Learning Improvements                           32.0             41.9
       2. Expanding Access                                44.3             24.4
       3 (and 4). Institutional Strengthening             20.1             26.9
       5. (now 4.) Project Management                      3.6               6.8
                                                         100.0            100.0



39.    Project institutional arrangements: The Project's original institutional
arrangements remain valid and appropriate for implementation. The four-person strategic
executive unit located in the Ministry o f National Education's Cabinet i s envisioned to
have an advisory and leadership role in project implementation and, more broadly, for the
preparation o f the new Education Sector Program. The project execution unit would have
overall responsibility for administrative, financial and procurement matters, and the
technical units o f the three education Ministries would be responsible for the
implementation o f project activities. The Education and Training Sector Inter-ministerial


                                                15
Committee (CICSE) and the three Sectoral Steering Committees (SSC) set up at the
inception o f the Project would also be reactivated, with the CICSE to carry out project
oversight and policy guidance and the three CCS concerned with the coherence o f the
overall program, including policy orientations and their implementation in respective
sub-sectors.

40.      Changes in outputs: The modifications in activities described above will also lead
to changes in the Project's outputs. N e w project outputs include: (i)  re-opening o f four
CAFOP in the north; (ii)                                              i i literacy and post-
                            improved functioning o f all 14 CAFOP; ( i )
literacy services expanded in the north; (iv) 400 primary schools benefit from school
feeding activities during the 2008-09 academic year; and (v) DREN and IEP able to carry
out their functions as described in the Ministry's regulations. Project outputs dropped
include: (i) reformed pre-service and in-service teacher training; (ii)
                                                                      applied research and
pedagogical innovations in "e`coles tkmoins"; ( i )i i improved availability o f textbooks in
junior secondary schools; (iv) school infrastructure renovation program; (v) school
maintenance program; (vi) implementation o f the decentralized action plan; and
(vii) establishment o f a unit to promote girls' and women's education.

41.     Changes in project costs: The restructured total project cost i s estimated at
US$75.9 million equivalent. IDA will be financing 87.1 percent o f the total project costs
(US$66.1 million equivalent). Changes in project costs reflect both the introduction and
elimination o f some activities (Le,, the new cost structure o f the Project), as well as the
change in price o f inputs. Project costs have shifted mostly from the second component
(increasing access) to the first (improving quality and availability o f school inputs) and
third (institutional strengthening) components. With regards to the disbursement
categories, resources are shifted mostly from the Consultant and Training Services
category (which represented 43% o f the initial IDA allocation) to the Provision o f
Textbooks and Learning Material and Equipment and Vehicles categories (which
represent 29% and 23% o f the revised IDA allocation, respectively). IDA will finance
100 percent o f all project expenditures, excluding value added tax and custom tax.
Government financing o f the project since its inception i s equivalent to US$9.8 million
equivalent.

42.     Changes in project's fiduciary management: The fiduciary management capacity
o f the project execution unit has been assessed and deemed satisfactory for the
implementation o f the restructured PASEF. The key personnel are in place (a new
administrative and financial manager was appointed to reinforce the BEP), the financial
management software has been updated, and project execution unit's personnel were
trained by Bank specialists on new fiduciary requirements and procedures for Bank-
financed projects. The allocation o f the special account i s also being increased to CFAF
1.8 billion instead o f the original CFAF 900 million. This will provide sufficient
resources to meet the implementation needs o f planned activities.

43.    New closing date and implementation schedule: The activities o f the work
program agreed upon under the restructured Project will need 24 months to be completed.
Therefore, the Borrower proposes a new implementation period and extension o f the
Closing Date o f the Development Financing Agreement until August 31, 2010. A new


                                             16
action plan and disbursement plan have been elaborated by the Borrower and reviewed
by the Association to allow the completion o f the activities by the new Closing Date o f
the Project.

(iii)Analysis

44.     Economic andfinancial analysis: The PASEF's economic analysis was done in
1996 as part o f a broad sector dialogue with the Government o n education sector
priorities as well as policies and investments, which led to the preparation o f the National
Education and Training Development Plan. As mentioned above, due to the crisis, the
National Education and Training Development Plan has not been implemented and i t s
targets have become mostly obsolete (e.g., achieving universal primary education by
2010). The restructured PASEF will therefore support the preparation o f an education
CSR and a new National Education and Training Development Plan, as well as the
country's endorsement to the Education for All-Fast Track Initiative. As part o f this
process, a sector economic analysis (Le., financial simulation model) will be carried out
in order to estimate the costs o f achieving the Education for All goals.

45.      Sustainability ofthe revised PASEF: The revised PASEF, through i t s support for
the elaboration o f a new National Education and Training Development Plan, will seek to
put in place a sustainable financial framework for the overall education system. I t i s
expected that increased availability o f domestic resources will sustain the budgets
necessary for the implementation o f the National Education and Training Development
Plan, as conditions in CBte d'Ivoire continue to normalize and the country can access
fiu-ther debt relief. An endorsement o f CBte d'Ivoire to the Education for All-Fast Track
Initiative by 2009 will give access to increased donor support and the Education for All-
Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Fund to finance any remaining financing gap estimated in
the National Education and Training Development Plan.

46.     Social assessment: The social assessment prepared in 1998 remains valid. The
project strategy will continue to seek a greater participation o f the poor and girls in
education, especially in primary education. To mitigate the effects o f the conflict, the
restructured PASEF will target the enrollment o f school-age children in the north. The
direct costs o f schooling will be reduced by the provision o f textbooks for all primary
students (who would only pay a small rental fee to cover the replacement o f lost and
destroyed textbooks).

47.    Environmental assessment: The environmental category o f the restructured
PASEF has been changed to B from Cq2As part o f the reactivation o f PASEF, an
environment assessment3 has been prepared and reviewed by the Bank for the
construction o f primary and lower secondary schools included in the financing o f the


 The PASEF should not have been classified under category C for environment, because it includes the
 construction o f 900 primary classrooms and 8 lower secondary schools. The revised PASEF has reduced
 the number o f classrooms to be built (to 300 f r o m 900) and eliminated school rehabilitation.
 The Environment assessment includes the approved plans for school construction and the description o f
 the methods used for the selection o f school construction sites.


                                                 17
project. A new Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet (ISDS) has been prepared and published
in Infoshop. There are no other changes or requirements concerning safeguards.

(iv) Expected Outcomes

48.     As noted above, the Project has a new development objective and complementary
outcome targets. The expected outcomes to be achieved in the next 24 months by the
restructured PASEF are to moderately increase access and retention in primary education
nation wide. This should translate in

   0   improved first grade enrollment,
   0   lower repetition rate, and
   0   increased primary completion rate,

To reflect these changes, new performance indicators were selected and several others
were removed. The main Key Performance Indicators o f the restructured Project are
presentedin Annex 2.

(v) Benefits and Risks

49.     n
        I addressing the new post-conflict recovery needs in C6te d'Ivoire, expected
benefits o f the restructured PASEF are as follows: (i)resuming o f basic education service
delivery, especially in the north; (ii)expansion o f access and improved retention within
                                i ibetter hnctioning o f primary schools with basic school
the primary education cycle; ( i )
inputs more widely available (textbooks); (iv) pre-service teacher training institutions
strengthened with training programs updated and availability o f teaching and learning
materials for staff and student-graduates; (v) evaluation o f students achievement
outcomes to guide policy-making; (vi) better and more efficient deployment o f resources
through the utilization o f Education Management Information System; (vii) greater
capacity o f the Education Ministries to intervene in the sector; and (viii) new education
sector policy adopted and endorsed by policymakers and c i v i l society stakeholders for a
sustainable expansion o f the education system.

50.   Primary risks to the PASEF's achievement o f i t s development objective andor
outcome targets are the following:

   0   Insufficient implementation capacity at Education Ministries: Both public and
       private sector capacities in C6te d'Ivoire have been weakened as a result o f the
       conflict, T o mitigate this risk, PASEF will invest heavily in the reinforcement o f
       capacity both at the central level and in the decentralized structures o f the
       Ministry o f National Education.
   0   Stakeholders do not support the Government's plans to reform education:
       Administrators in the education sector, teachers' unions and parents might oppose
       the Government's plan to better control costs and improve education standards in
       schools. T o mitigate this risk, PASEF will support an education sector assessment



                                            18
        and undertake extensive stakeholders' consultations o n the new National
        Education and Training Development Plan.

(vi) Proposed Reallocation o f Funds


                     Table 2: P A S E F Proposed Reallocation of Funds




          2     TEXTBOOKS AND LEARNING                2,300,000          11,350,000
                MATERIAL
         3      EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES                6,000,000           9,000,000
         4      CONSULTANT SERVICES AND              17,000,000           6,800,000
                TRAINING
         5      OPERATING COST                        3,700,000           3,650,000
    I    6     IPPFREIMBURSEMENT                 I      500.000    I        340,000   I
    I    7     IUN-ALLOCATED                     I    1.200.000    I         60,000   I
         8     /TOTAL                                39,600,000          39,600,000




                                            19
                            PROJECT DATA SHEET FOR

                   Transport Sector Adjustment (Credit 3100-IVC)


Date: July 29, 2008                              Task Team Leader: Si& Silud
Country: CBte d'Ivoire                           Sector Manager: C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
Project Name: CBte d'Ivoire - Transport          Country Director: Madani M. Tall
Sector Adjustment Credit - (Credit No.           Environmental category: B
3 100-IVC):

Borrower: Republic o f CBte d'Ivoire - Minister o f Economic and Finance
-
Responsible agency: Ministry o f Economic Infrastructure
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY                   2007         2008             2009          2010            201 1
Annual                 -             8.9             10.9          6.2             0.7
Cumulative
P
                    168.7         177.6            188.5         175.9            19.5    -
Current closing date: December 3 1,2002
Revised closing date: August 3 1,201 0
Indicate if the restructuring is:

Board approved        J
RVP approved          J

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?     - Yes/No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                               -Yes - N o
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?               -Yes / N o

Revised project development obj ective/outcomes

The Project Development Objective (PDO) i s to reestablish and improve road access and
safeguard road infrastructure assets across the country by rehabilitatingheconstructing the
bridges along the main roads, notably in Northern Western and Regions where the road
maintenance activities were suspended since the beginning o f the war.

Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? N o
                            Revised Financing Plan (US$m.)
                  Source


DA
Others




                                            20
C. Transport Sector Adjustment Project (CI-PAST)

(i)Background and reasons for restructuring

5 1.    Project development objectives: The Transport Sector Adjustment and Investment
Credit was approved by the Board o f Directors for an amount o f SDR 130.6 million on
June 23, 1998, signed on September 16, 1998 and declared effective on November 9,
1998. The original development objectives o f the Project were to: (a) improve the
condition and efficiency o f the transport infrastructure; (b) build capacity for planning,
programming and mobilizing funding required for the execution o f investments in the
transport sector; and (c) strengthen the legal and regulatory framework o f the transport
sector.

52.     Project performance to date: The Project included an adjustment component o f
SDR 72.3 million in four tranches, including a floating tranche o f SDR 7 million and an
investment component o f SDR 58.3 million. Three tranches totaling SDR 65.3 million
were released but since the seven conditions for release o f the floating tranche were not
met by June 30, 2003, SDR 7 million o f this tranche were cancelled in conformity with
the relevant provisions o f O P B P 13.50. The initial Closing Date o f the Credit was June
30, 2001 but has been extended two times, respectively until December 31, 2002 owing
to the difficulties related to the October 1999 coup that affected the project
implementation and until June 30, 2003 owing to the September 19, 2002 coup attempt
and ensuing political crisis.

53.     The Credit Agreement was amended twice on October 28, 1999 and December
20, 2001 and various components were modified over the course o f project
                  n
implementation. I 1999, the investment component was amended to add an Artificial
                                                                 n
Reef Pilot sub-component under the Project's port component. I addition, an Operating
Costs category and definition and references to the Limited International Bidding
procurement method were added. In December 2001, the adjustment component was
amended to modify and focus the conditions for release o f the third tranche o n road
maintenance policy. The investment component was also amended to: (i)       add sub-
components on civil aviation, rural transport, HIV/AIDS and poverty; (ii)      revise
disbursement percentage for civil works and prior review thresholds for consultant
               i ireallocate funds among the various categories.
services; and ( i )

54.     Reasons for restructuring: The Project was already restructured before, following
the signing o f the Marcoussis Peace Agreement in January 2003 in Paris, which provided
a framework for resolving the main issues o f contention such as citizenship rights,
sharing o f transition power, rights to land and eligibility to presidency. In this context, a
further one year extension until June 30, 2004 was requested on the basis o f a profound
Project restructuring and a sound action plan, essentially limited to the areas controlled
by the Government because the Northern and Western regions o f the territory were
inaccessible since September 2002, leading to the cancellation o f all road contracts in
these parts o f the country. In the framework o f this restructuring, it was agreed with the
Borrower that the non-committed funds earmarked to support sector reforms, strengthen
sector efficiency and build capacity in sector institutions, be redirected towards
emergency reconstruction activities that would accelerate economic and social recovery


                                             21
as planned in the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy at the time. Therefore, the non-
road related institutional and reform-oriented components, whose implementation had
significantly slowed down since 2001, were cancelled and priority was given to road
maintenance activities to reconstruct critical transport infrastructure like roads and
bridges along priority economic corridors. However, because o f Cbte d'Ivoire's
accumulation o f arrears and the suspension o f the Bank's activities in the country in the
summer o f 2004, the Project restructuring was not completed. The Peace Accord o f
Ouagadougou, signed in March 2007, and credible steps toward normalization over the
past year represent a new opportunity to reactivate, restructure and complete
implementation o f this Project `to meet current post-conflict emergency needs in the
transport sector.

(ii)Proposed changes

55.     Higher level objectives to which the project contributes: The proposed changes
will capitalize on the successful reforms undertaken in the road sector with the creation o f
the Autonomous Road Management Agency and the Road Maintenance Fund, and
thereby keep mainly the road-related Part A to address the emergency needs o f the
country, improve land communications and stem the fast deterioration o f the road
network due to a maintenance shortfall in the past five years. The proposed changes
concern: (i) Project Development Objectives; (ii) scope o f the works under Part A
             the                                       the
         i ithe
and B; ( i ) reallocation o f the remaining Credit fhnds and increase o f IDA financing
to 100% inclusive o f Taxes; (iv) the implementation arrangements; (v) compliance with
latest Consultants and Procurement Guidelines; (vi) the K e y Performance Indicators (see
Annex 3); and (vii) the extension o f the Closing Date.

56.     Revised development objective and scope: The Project's development objective
has been changed to take into account the post-conflict context, now seeking to
reestablish and improve road access and safeguard road infrastructure assets across the
country, notably in Northern and Western Regions where road maintenance activities
were suspended for five years since the beginning o f the political crisis. To achieve this
objective, the scope o f the works has been slightly adjusted to focus on spot
improvements. Therefore, the activities to be carried out under components 1 and 2 o f the
Project will concern mainly the construction o f small bridges on the road network across
the country in order to improve road accessibility. The Project will also strengthen the
capacity in the transport sector and improve road safety. The main activities proposed
under the restructured Project are as follows:

57.    Component 1: Road Construction, Rehabilitation and Maintenance (original
component). The original amount o f 16.102m DTS will include the financing of:
(a) Construction o f about 60 bridges across the country to ensure accessibility o f basic
services (schools, medical centers, markets, production areas, etc.) and connection with
neighboring countries; (b) Carrying out o f detailed engineering studies for ten bridges in
the Northern and Western Regions; (c) Carrying out o f works supervision for
construction o f bridges; (d) Capacity building for the Borrower's agency responsible for
road sector management and maintenance operations, through the provision o f technical
advisory services and acquisition o f equipment; (e) Capacity development for small local



                                             22
contractors to carry out road maintenance works; and (f) Coordination o f Project
activities.

58.    Component 2: Road Transport Component (original component). The
remaining amount o f 0.750m DTS will include the financing of: (a) Rehabilitation o f the
road safety training center; (b) Rehabilitation o f the Grand Bassam bus station;
(c) Creation o f a road accident database; and (d) Capacity building o f Road Safety
Agency (OSER).

59.      Project institutional arrangements: The overall coordination o f the project
activities will be ensured by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), located within the MEI.
Three implementing agencies will be involved: (i) AGEROUTE will be responsible
                                                      the
for the implementation o f the road maintenance activities (Part A o f the revised Project);
(ii) Road Funds Agency will be in charge o f mobilization o f road funds; and ( i )
    the                                                                              i ithe
Road Safety Agency will be responsible for implementing Part B o f the revised Project
(OfJice de la Se'curite' RoutiBre - OSER). The Project Coordination Unit, AGEROUTE
and OSER are staffed with experienced specialists and have been involved in similar
activities in the past. Particularly, the Project Coordination Unit has so far successfully
planned and monitored the procurement, financial and environmental activities o f the
Project. The arrangements above have been discussed and agreed upon with the Borrower
during the Association's missions in December 2007 and January 2008.

60.    Changes in project 's j d u c i a r y management: The fiduciary management capacity
has been assessed and deemed satisfactory for the implementation o f the restructured CI-
PAST. The PIU includes key personnel who were trained by Bank specialists on updated
financial management software and procedures for Bank-financed projects.

61.     New closing date and implementation schedule: The physical activities o f the
work program agreed upon under the restructured Project, notably the construction o f the
bridges and the rehabilitation o f the road safety training center, will need 24 months to be
completed. Therefore, the Borrower proposes a new implementation period and extension
o f the Closing Date o f the Development Financing Agreement until August 31, 2010. A
new action plan and disbursement plan have been elaborated by the Borrower and
reviewed by the Association to allow the completion o f the activities by the new Closing
Date o f the Project.

(iii)Analysis

62.      Economic andfinancial analysis: Since the beginning o f the war in 2002, road
maintenance programs have been suspended in the Western and Northern Regions. In the
Southern Regions controlled by the Government, road maintenance continued with focus
on the reconstruction o f critical transport infrastructure along priority economic corridors.
However, due to the crisis and lack o f security throughout the country, contract execution
slowed down in the Southern Regions and in many cases the execution was suspended or
did not even start. Therefore, despite the encouraging signs o f peace over the past year,
the country faces serious problems o f inaccessibility. The recent inspection studies o f the
road network across the country confirmed that more than 80 percent o f the road network
i s in bad condition and about 100 bridges need to be rehabilitated or reconstructed. As a


                                             23
result, important localities and productions areas are inaccessible during the rainy season,
severely inhibiting economic activity.

63.     After the withdrawal o f all the main donors, notably the World Bank, European
Union and the Afr-ican Development Bank, the Road Fund remained the sole financing
source, which i s not sufficient to cover the important transport needs o f the country. In
this context, the Borrower has agreed to focus i t s own resources mobilized through the
Road Fund on current road maintenance. Thus, the remaining IDA Credit Financing of
the Project will be focused on reconstruction o f bridges by: (i)removing the bottlenecks
on the road network throughout the country, including the Western and Northern
Regions; (ii)                                                           i i supporting the
               improving access to agriculture production areas; and ( i )
decentralization policy o f the Government. The Project will also improve road safety;
strengthen the capacity in the transport sector affected by many years o f war; and
improve the institutional framework for the mobilization o f resources for road
maintenance. The proposed changes will have positive economical and social impacts on
the targeted population.

64.     Environmental and social assessment: The environmental category o f the Project
will remain B because the activities will be on existing roads and the restructuring does
not involve any exception to Bank Policies. N o activity funded under the Project i s
expected to have a significant negative environmental or social impact. An environment
assessment has been done during the detailed studies o f the bridges before the crisis. The
EIA revealed that, the construction o f the bridges will not have significant impact on soil,
water, flora and fauna. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) on maintenance and
rehabilitation o f roads has been prepared by the Project. A new Integrated Safeguard Data
Sheet (ISDS) has been prepared and published in InfoShop.

(iv) Expected outcomes

65.     To reflect the new PDO, which i s to reestablish and improve road access and
mobility and safeguard road infrastructure assets throughout the country, the main
outcome will be the percentage o f people with access to all-season roads. The project
seeks to safeguard infrastructure assets by rehabilitating the selected bridges which are in
a bad condition, to support the Ministry o f Infrastructure's main objective o f saving the
existing infrastructure, including bridges which play an important role for accessibility.
Due to the lack o f maintenance during the crisis, most bridges in the country are in bad
conditions. Improved outcomes are targeted nationwide, with the project not limited to
the Western and Northern Regions. Bridges for rehabilitation will be selected in the entire
country according to accessibility needs. In addition to IDA funds, the Government
agrees to provide resources through the road funds to maintain the road network and i t s
quality will be measured by AGEROUTE before the reallocation o f maintenance funds.

The Key Performance Indicators for the restructured project are as follows:
   0   60 bridges reconstructed or rehabilitated across the country;
   0   Percentage o f road network in bad condition decreases from 80% to 40%;




                                             24
       Road funds mobilized by the Road Funds Agency increase from CFA14 billion in
       2007 to 2 1 billion in 20 10;
   0   At least 800 people trained every year in road safety centers.

(v) Benefits and risks

66.    Most o f the benefits related to sector planning, appropriate allocation o f road
funds, and private sector development remain the same as those presented in the
President's Memorandum dated M a y 28, 1998. The originally targeted reforms in the
transport sector are not applicable anymore because o f the Project's reduced focus by
closing o f activities in components 2 through 5. However, reforms in the road sub-sector
through the creation o f the Road Maintenance Fund and the National Road Agency which
will strengthen procedures for managing road maintenance expenditures and
programming road maintenance works. The sustained financing o f road maintenance
should also help develop small and medium contractors by providing a more reliable
source o f funding compared to financing through the national budget.

67.    Restructuring the CI-PAST will contribute to achieve the last two objectives o f
the Bank's new Interim Strategy Note for FY08-09. Indeed, the restructured CI-PAST
will: (i)
        reestablish the movement o f people between all regions by removing bottlenecks
o n the main road corridors and create jobs by the resuming o f road maintenance
programs, which were suspended in a large part o f the country; and (ii)   improve the
country's economic competitiveness by facilitating access to production areas, social
services and also to regional markets. The restructured CI-PAST will also support
productive sectors like agriculture, trade, and tourism, whose development has been
affected by the crisis.

68.      Overarching risks in the country's current post-crisis period that need to be
carefully taken into account for project reactivation are discussed in section V on
Benefits and Risks. Specific risks to successful project implementation and achievement
o f the restructured PDO and outcome targets are the following:
   0   Lack of counterpart funding to maintain the road network. The Borrower
       committed to ensure with i t s own resources standard road maintenance on the
       corridor where the bridges will be constructed by the Project. Although the Road
       Maintenance Fund and Road Management Agency have been created and a
       sustainable funding mechanism has been adopted by the Parliament, liquidity
       problems have prevented any substantial deposit into the Road Maintenance Fund
       account in the past. T o mitigate this risk, the Borrower has strengthened the
       institutional framework for the mobilization o f resources for road maintenance:
       the funding mechanism has been improved and the planned funds have been
       transferred to the Road Fund account regularly. During the last two years, despite
       the crisis, the Road Agency and the Road Fund have continued to operate, thereby
       testifying that the institutional setting i s right and robust. The Road Fund has
       mobilized approximately C F A l 7 billion additional funds for the implementation
       o f roads in the areas controlled by the Borrower.




                                            25
    0   Weak administrative capacity. The design o f the restructured Project should
        minimize the weakened capacity in the administration to manage the Project, even
        if sector reforms will be neglected. Within the restructuring plan, the Project will
        strengthen capacity o f the Borrower's agency responsible for road sector
        management and maintenance operations through the provision o f technical
        advisory services and acquisition o f equipment.

(vi) Proposed Reallocation o f Funds

69.      As o f April 10, 2008 the Project's undisbursed credit amount i s SDR 16.852
million (86.4 percent o f the overall amount). Following the streamlining o f component 2
activities and the closing o f components 3,4 and 5 to focus the Project o n key emergency
needs, the remaining funds o f the Credit, initially allocated to those dropped components
and activities, would be reallocated to component 1 and related categories o f
expenditures. I t i s also proposed that the amendments to the Development Financing
Agreement as w e l l as the related reallocation o f the Credit funds be effective as o f July 1,
2004 to cover activities undertaken during the suspension period. Indeed, the Association
has agreed to reimburse the Borrower for expenditures o f works executed according to
Bank Procurement Procedures during the suspension period, including the operation costs
o f the Coordination Unit. As o f December 31, 2007, the amount disbursed and eligible
for IDA retro-financing i s about SDR 1.737 million. The new allocations per categories,
as well as the adjustment o f some category amounts are presented in the table below.




                                               26
                  Table 3: CI-PAST Proposed Reallocation of Funds




I-     1    I II
            CVLWORKS-A&B                I       35.460.000.00   I   43.850.000.00    I
I     2     ICIVILWORKS-PARTB           I        2.400.000.00   I      230,000.00    I
I    3-A    I GOODS.EOUIP-PARTB         I          240.000.00   I    1,050,000.00    I
     3-B      GOODS EQUIP-PART D2                                             0.00
     3-C      GOODS EQUIP-PART D4                  200,000.00                 0.00
     3-D      GOODS EQUIP-PART E                   120,000.00           90,000.00
     3 -E     GOODS - PART F                        30,000.00           10,000.00
     3-F      GOODS - PART G                     1,590,000.00           10,000.00
     3-G      GOODS - PART A                       500,000.00          480,000.00
     4-A      CONSULT. - PART A                  6,140,000.00        9,100,000.00
     4-B      CONSULT. - PART B                     60.000.00          250.000.00
I    4-C    I CONSULT. - PART C         I          830.000.00   I      150.000.00    I
     4-D      CONSULT. - PART D                  1,380,000.00          660,000.00
     4-E      CONSULT.- PART E1-E2                  40,000.00           70,000.00
     4-F      CONSULT.- PART E2-E3                 440.000.00          830.000.00
     4-G    I CONS. SERVICES                       810,000.00   I       50,000.00
     4-H    I CONS. SERVICES                       700,000.00   I       20,000.00




                                              123.600.000.00    I   123,600,000.00   I




                                        27
                                            DATA SHEET FOR

                        Distance Learning Project (Credit No. 3383-IVC)



                                                   Sector ManagerDirector: Rick Scobey
                            stance Learning LIL




Current closing date: March 3 1,2005
Revised closing date: December 3 1 2008
Indicate if the restructuring is:

Board approved               J
RVP approved                 J

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?       -Yes J N o
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                 -Yes -No
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                 - Yes J N o

Revised project development objective/outcomes [Ifapplicable]

NA


Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? If so, click here to
indicate which one(s) [selection box like the one in the new ISR]

NA




IBRD/IDA
Others

*   Borrower increased i t s real contribution.




                                                  28
V.       BENEFITS AND R I S K S

73.     The major benefits o f the proposed portfolio restructuring include (i) ability to
                                                                              the
rapidly respond to the post-crisis environment, adapting the suspended projects to the
Government's most urgent needs; and (ii)      accelerated and efficient implementation o f
Projects. Through facilitating community rehabilitation, production, and provision o f
basic social services and assisting in economic recovery through local-level institutional
support and infrastructure rehabilitation, the restructured Projects will contribute to the
key objectives for the Bank's assistance to CGte d'Ivoire over FY08-09, as outlined in the
Bank's Interim Strategy Note with respect to: (a) stabilization and peace-building,
(b) assistance to war-affected populations, and (c) kick-starting economic recovery and
reform.

74.    Over the past year, first steps towards the implementation o f the Ouagadougou
Peace Accord have helped bring CGte d'Ivoire on the way to recovery and normalization.
However, major risks remain within C6te d'Ivoire's post-conflict environment that could
have a detrimental effect o n the implementation o f these Projects and the ISN. They have
been taken into account for the restructuring and program design in the following way:

     0   Political destabilization and resumption of armed conflict. A possible
         disintegration o f the peace process and return to conflict remains the paramount
         risk to the Bank's re-engagement in CGte d'Ivoire. while this risk i t s e l f i s largely
         exogenous to the Projects, their implementation, together with other Bank
         investment, i s expected to provide "peace dividends" and thus foster greater
         political and social stability, which would in turn help mitigate potential risks o f
         destabilization and relapse into conflict.

     0   Insufficient implementation capacity: Both public and private sector capacities
         in CGte d'Ivoire have been weakened as a result o f the conflict at central and local
         levels. To mitigate this risk, the restructured Projects will invest heavily in the
         reinforcement o f capacity both at the central level and in the decentralized
         structures o f the counterpart's implementing agencies.

     0   Governance and fiduciary risks: With governance having deteriorated over the
         course o f the conflict, CGte d'Ivoire has been categorized by the Bank as a high-
         risk country in terms o f systemic corruption. To mitigate this risk, a PEMFAR has
         been undertaken by the Bank in partnership with the International Monetary Fund,
         the Afiican Development Bank, and the European U n i o n and the overall country
         program will focus i t s engagement on governance.

75.     These risks present challenges in any post-conflict environment and - as outlined
in the ISN's rationale for re-engagement as discussed by the Board o n April 1, 2008 - a
failure to support the country's peace process and resumption o f basic services in CGte
d'Ivoire at this point, especially in former-conflict areas, would carry an even greater
risk. To adjust and adequately mitigate any risks that might arise over the implementation
period, the execution o f the presented Projects will be monitored closely through
intensive supervision o f the portfolio.

                                                30
                                                    Annex 1: PNGTER Results Framework and Monitoring



   Project development objective                               Project outcomes/indicators                             Use of project outcomes information
Facilitate land tenure security over rural    60% of land titles deeds requested and processed                      Title deeds and request register at the Agriculture
land; strengthen local capacity to plan,                                                                             Management Level
make decisions, govern and manage affairs     70% of micro-project investment plans for which counterparts were     Urgent Investment Plans
at the local level; and support small-scale   mobilized (from baseline of 56%)                                      Extracts ofCDL accounts
investments for sustainable natural                                                                                 Micro-project monitoring sheets
resource management, agriculture and
infrastructure development, to be
undertaken collaboratively by government
and local cornmunities.

       Intermediate outcomes                                Intermediate outcome indicators                          Use ofmtermediate outcome monitoring
Mechanisms for issuing title deeds in place
Functioning of the Rural Land Mgmt              8 CGFR are functioning (from baseline of 6)                       Departmental title deeds reports and site visits
Committee (CGFR)
Functioning of Village Land Management          100 CVGFR are formalized (from baseline of 62)                    Departmental land reports, Minutes of CVGFR
Committee                                                                                                         meetings, site visits
Delimitation of rural lands in 7                105 village land boundaries have been delimited (from baseline of Village land reports. BNETD/CCT reports
departments                                     62)
Installation of computer system at the          The computer system for title deeds are already introduced in 3   Minutes and receipts
departmental level                              departments
Capacities of villaRes to formulate their priority needs are strenRthened
Formalization of Local Development             45 Local Development Councils in CNO are formalized                Deposit receipts and registration numbers - minutes
Counsel in CNO zone                                                                                               ofCDL. general assembles
Ownership by rural townsl communities          45 rural communities already have a PIU                            Local development plan documents
of Investment Plan
Satisfactory management by the                 60 % of micro-projects already established are managed in a        Periodic reports and CDL management committee
communities of micro-projects already          satisfactory manner                                                reports, site visits
implemented
Coordination of components is assured and the monitorinR of objectives are implemented and consolidated at the technical and financial levels
Contracts are signed in accordance with        75 % of envisaged contracts have issued                            Procurement reports integrated in the fmancial
procurement plans and provisions                                                                                  monitoring reports
The indicators are regularly collected         75 % indicators are updated quarterly                              Technical implementation reports integrated in the
                                                                                                                  fmancial monitoring reports


                                                                                    31
                                                     Annex 2: PASEF Results Framework and Monitoring

                                                                   Project Development Objective
To assist the Ministry of National Education to resume the delivery of education services in primary, which implies (i) providing quality school inputs to guarantee
teaching and learning in classrooms, and (ii) improving access to education and retention of school children in primary.
                                                        Baseline                                                Target                            Monitoring and
        Key Performance Indicators                                       Target 2008-09
                                                        2007-08                                                 2009-10                            Supervision
Gross Emollment Rate in 1sl grade                          71%                  75%                               80%                       Statistical year Book
Gross Emollment Rate in Primary                            74%                  78%                               82%                       Idem
Primary Completion Rate                                    46%                  48%                               50%                       Idem
Repetition Rate (% of children repeating)                  22%                  18%                               14%                       Idem
                                                                                                                                                  M6nit6ring and
           Intermediate Indicators                        2068                 2009                               2010
                                                                                                                                                   Supervisi6n
Improving the quality of basic education
Textbook-pupil ratio in primary                                                                 3 manuals for pupils for grades 1 and 3     MNE records and field visits
                                                                                                and 5 manuals for pupils in grades 3 to 6
Curriculum reform in primary education                                 Competency-based         New curriculum introduced in the            MNE report and field visits
                                                                       curriculum finalized     CAFOP and existing teachers receive in-
                                                                       for all grades of        service teacher training
                                                                       primary
Assessment of student achievement outcomes                             Learning assessment      Learning assessment carried out in one      Learning Assessment Reports
(production of baseline on quality of education in                     carried out in one       grade of secondary
primary and secondary)                                                 grade of primary
Pre-service teacher training strengthened                              4 CAFOP in Zone          14 CAFOP receive pedagogical                MNE report and field visits
                                                                       CNOre-open               materials for staff and student-graduates
                                                                                                and functioning of CAFOP improved
Literacy services expanded in the zones CNO                            3,000 youth (of                                                      FNAA yearly activity report
                                                                       which 75% are                                                        and students' evaluation
                                                                       women) emolled in
                                                                       literacy courses
Access to primary education increased
Construction of primary classrooms and lower-                          300 primary              8 lower-secondary schools built             MNE report and field visits
secondary schools                                                      classrooms built
                                                                                                                                                  MooitoriDg and
           Intermediate Indicators                        2008                 2009                               2010
                                                                                                                                                   Supervision


                                                                                    32
Institutional Strengthening of the Three Education Ministries
Strategic and operational capacity of the MNE     Executive
reinforced                                        Strategic Unit
                                                  Established
                                                  with 3
                                                  specialists
                                                  recruited
                                                                   EMIS set up and                                           Production of data by the
                                                                   operational                                               EMIS
                                                                                         NETDP finalized and Cote d'Ivoire   Letter of endorsement by local
                                                                                         endorsed to the EFA-FTI.            donors
                                                                   Structures of                                             MNE reports and field visits
                                                                   Ministry at central
                                                                   and local levels
                                                                   receive new
                                                                   equipment
Strategic and operational capacity of the MTEVT                    EMIS set up and                                           Production of data by the
reinforced                                                         operational                                               EMIS
                                                                   Structures of                                             MNE reports and field visits
                                                                   Ministry at central
                                                                   and local levels
                                                                   receive new
                                                                   equipment
Strategic and operational capacity of the MHESR                    EMIS set up and                                           Production of data by the
reinforced                                                         operational                                               EMIS




                                                                                33
                                                  Annex 3: CI-PAST Results Framework and Monitoring

     Project development objecL!-                                 Project outcomeslindicators                              Use of project outcomes information

Reestablish and improve road access and               Road access improved in all the country                            This information will enable the monitoring
safeguard road infrastructure assets across the                                                                           of the development objective achievement
country by rehabilitating/reconstructing the
bridges along the main roads_                         Percentage of road network in bad condition decreases from
                                                       80% to 40%;

                                                      Road funds mobilized by the Road Funds Agency increase
                                                       from CFA 14 billion in 2007 to 21 billion in 2010;

                                                   
                                                                                                                               Use of intermediate outcome
          Intermediate outcomes                                 Intermediate outcome indicators
                                                                                                                                        monitoring

Component A: Improvement of road access               # of bridges rehabilitated (from 0 in 2007 to 60 in 2009 in        To assess the progress of road condition
                                                                                                                          improvement
                                                       2010)_


Component B: Improvement of road safety               One road safety training center rehabilitated (from 0 in 2007 to   To assess the quality of diving license
                                                       1 in 2010).                                                        training and road safety in Abidjan and
                                                                                                                          Grand Bassam
                                                      Number of people trained in road safety centers increase from 0
                                                       in 2007 to 1200 in 2010

                                                      Grand Bassam bus station rehabilitated (from 0 in 2007 to 1 in
                                                       2010)

                                                      Pedestrian accidents peer year at Grand Bassam bus station
                                                       reduced from 60 in 2007 to 15 maximum in 2010.

      Project development objective                               Project outcomes/indicators                              Use of project outcomes information




                                                                                 34
     Project development objective                               Project outcomes/indicators                              Use of project outcomes information

Reestablish and improve road access and              Road access improved in all the country                            This information will enable the monitoring
safeguard road infrastructure assets across the                                                                          of the development objective achievement
country by rehabilitating/reconstructing the
bridges along the main roads                         Percentage of road network in bad condition decreases from
                                                      80% to 40%

                                                     Road funds mobilized by the Road Funds Agency increase
                                                      from CFA14 billion in 2007 to 21 billion in 2010
          Intermediate ontcomes                               Intermediate outcome indicators                                 Use of intermediate outcome
                                                                                                                                       monitoring

Component A: Improvement of road access              # of bridges rehabilitated (from 0 in 2007 to 60 in 2009 in        To assess the progress of road condition
                                                                                                                         improvement
                                                      2010)


Component B: Improvement of road safety              One road safety training center rehabilitated (from 0 in 2007 to   To assess the quality of diving license
                                                      1 in 2010)                                                         training and road safety in Abidjan and
                                                                                                                         Grand Bassam
                                                     Number of people trained in road safety centers increase from 0
                                                      in 2007 to 1200 in 2010

                                                     Grand Bassam bus station rehabilitated (from 0 in 2007 to 1 in
                                                      2010)

                                                     Pedestrian accidents peer year at Grand Bassam bus station
                                                      reduced from 60 in 2007 to 15 maximum in 2010




                                                                                35
                                                    Annex 4: CED-CI Results Framework and Monitoring


     Project development objective                                   Project outcomes/iudicators                         Use of project outcomes information
Test the viability and sustainability of distance        Distance learning facility utilization rate (60% by year 5)
learning as a means to access to high-quality,                                                                          To assess the efficiency of the center as a
up-to-date and cost-effective private decision-          Quality and relevance of courses offered by DLC based on      tool designed to deliver high-quality training
makers training for public and implementers               participants survey                                           to people involved in critical decision-
to increase their capacity to design, plan and                                                                          making
manage economic and social development
policies
                                                         Number of providers ofGDLN courses (increase by 5 per year)




                                                                                                                              Use of intermediate outcome
          Intermediate outcomes                                   Intermediate outcome indicators
                                                                                                                                        D16uitoring
Component A:                                             Distance learning facility utilization rate (60% by year 3)
Distance learning facilities extensively used to                                                                        To assess the quality of the training offered
train decision makers, private sector managers           Number and variety of organizations using DLC                 by the CED
and community leaders


Component B:                                             Number of public and private professionals trained
Viable cost recovery plan in place and                                                                                  To assess if the CED becomes an
operational                                              DLC self-fmancing: 20% in year 1,40% in year 2,60% in year    autonomous, sustainable entity
                                                          3 and 100% in year 4




                                                                                    36
                                              Annex 5: Country At-a-Glance


 C6te d'Ivoire a t a glance                                                                                                                                      10/12/07

                                                                                    Sub-
Key Development Indicators                                              cote     Saharan          O
                                                                                                 LW
                                                                                                                Age dfotrlbutlon, 2006
                                                                     d'lvoire      Africa     income
(2006)                                                                                                                                  Male                       Female

Population, mid-year (millions)                                         18 1         770       2,403           10-74
Surface area (thousand sq km)                                           322       24,265      29,215           54-84
Population growth (%)                                                    20          2.3          1.8          54-54
Urban population (%of total population)                                               36          30           404
                                                                                                               30-51
GNI (Atias method, US$ billions)                                       16.8          e48       1,562
                                                                                                               20-24
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                      920          e42         650
                                                                                                                10-14
GNI per capita (PPP, international$)                                  1,550        2,032       2,696
                                                                                                                    0-4

GDP growth (%)                                                           09           5.6         8,0                       20           10           0            10          20
GDP per capita growth (%)                                               -1 1          3.2         6.1                                              percent

(most recent estimate, 2000-2006)

Poverty headcount rabo at $1 a day (PPP, %)                                           41
                                                                                                               Under4 mortality rate (per 1,000)
Poverty headcount ratio at $2 a day (PPP, X)                             49           72
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                          45           47           59
                                                                                                                mo
                                                                        117           96           75
                                                                                                                        ~



Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                                                                        180
Child mainutntion (% of children under 5)                                22           29                        180
                                                                                                                140
Adult literacy, male (% of ages 15 and older)                             61           69         72            120
                                                                                                                100
Adult literacy, female (% of ages 15 and older)                           39           50         50
                                                                                                                 80
Gross pnmary enrollment, male (% of age group)                            78           98        108             80
Gross pnmary enrollment, female (% of age group)                          65           86         98             40
                                                                                                                 20
                                                                                                                    0
Access to an improved water source (% of population)                      51           56          75                               1990       1985       2000      2005
Access to improved sanitation facilities (% of population)                             37          38
                                                                                                                            DCdte d'lvoire         EI1Sub-SaharanAinca

Net Aid Flows                                                1960      1990          2000       2006 a

(US$ millions)
Net ODA and official aid                                      210       686          351          119          Srowth of GDP and GDP per capita (Oh)
Top 3 donors (in 2005)
  France                                                      118       416           156          68
  United States                                                 1        17            10          33
  Germany                                                      12        19            16          13

Aid (% of GNI)                                                 2.2       6.9          3.6         0.8
Aid per capita (US$)                                           26        59           22            7

Long-Term Economic Trends                                                                                      IO
                                                                                                                            sa                95             00               05

Consumer pnces (annual % change)                              17.9      -0.7          2.5         2.5
GDP implicit deflator (annual % change)                       35.5      -7.3         -0.4         5.6               -GDP                           -       GDP per capita

Exchange rate (annual average, local per US$)                211.3    272.3        709.9       522.4
Terms of trade index (2000 = 100)                              56       94           100         89
                                                                                                                    1880-90 1990-2000        200048
                                                                                                                         (average ennual growth %)
Population, midyear (millions)                               6.2       11.5         16.0        18.1                             3.4                3.3                 2.1
GDP (US$ millions)                                       10,175      11,487       10,448      17,568                             2.7                8.1                 0.1
                                                                        (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                   25.9     30.6          24.2        22.7                            0.3                4.1               1.1
Industry                                                      19.7     24.7          24.9        26.3                            4.4                8.2              -1.3
  Manufacturing                                               12.8     22.6          21.7        18.3                            3.0                7.6              -3.0
Services                                                      54.4     44.8          50.9        51.0                            3.6               11.1               0.1

Household finei consumption expenditure                      62.8      67.6          74.9        71.7                          3.3                 10.4               0.4
General gov't final consumption expenditure                  16.9      21.4           7.2         8.2                          0.2                  12                2.7
Gross capital formation                                      26.5       6.7          10.8         9.7                        -12.2                 19.6              -1.4

Exports of goods and services                                35.0      29.8          40.4       51.3                              1.9               9.5                 3.7
Imports of goods and services                                41.2      25.5          33.3       41.0                             -2.5              18.3                 5.1
Gross savings                                                 5.2      -5.2           8.0       12.7


Note Figures in italics are f w years other than those specified 2006 data are preliminary   indicates data are not available
a Aid data are for 2005

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG)




                                                                           37
                                                 C6te d'Ivoire at a Glance (Cont'd)


                                                                                                                                                      C6te d'Ivoire
Balance of Payments and Trade                             2000       2006

(US$ milhonsj
Total merchandiseexports (fob)                           3,740      8,144
Total merchandiseimports (cif)                           2.788      6,067                  Voice and accountability
Net trade in goods and services                            742      1,817

Current account balance                                   -293        524
                                                           -2.8        3.0                        Regulatory quality
 as a % of GDP
                                                                                                          Rule of law
Workers' remittances and
 compensationof employees (receipts)                       119        160                       Controlof mrrupbon

Reserves, including gold                                   566       1,732
                                                                                                   2006                 Country's percentile rank (0-100)
Central Government Finance                                                                       D 2000                   higher values imply bene, n t m s

(% of GDP)
                                                                                          Source Kaufmann-Kraav-MaJrmui World Bank
Current revenue (including grants)                        17.2        18.8
  Tax revenue                                             14.6        15.3
Current expenditure                                       15.5        17.0
                                                                                       Technology and Infrastructure                                   2000           2005
Overall surplus/deficit                                    -0.6       -0.3
                                                                                       Paved roads (% of total)                                          9.7             8.1
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                          Fixed line and mobile phone
 Individual                                                 10          10               subscnbers (per 1,000 people)
 Corporate                                                  35          35             High technology exports
                                                                                         (% of manufactured exports)                                     2.0             8.4
External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                                       Environment
(US$ milhons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                    16,876     16,407              Agncultural land (% of land area)                                  62              63
Total debt sewce                                           820       667               Forest area (% of land area)
Debt relief (HIPC, MDRI)                                     -           -             Nationally protected areas (% of land area)

Total debt (% of GDP)                                    161.5        93.4             Freshwater resources per capita (cu meters)                                   4,231
Total debt sewce (% of exports)                           18.3         7.7             Freshwater withdrawal (% of internal resources)                   1.2

Foreign direct investment (net inflows)                    134        246              C02 emissions per capita (mt)                                   0.35           0.32
Potifolio equity (net inflows)                              81        117
                                                                                       GDP per unit of energy use
                                                                                        (2000 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)                            3.9             3.6
 IComporition of total external debt, 2005
                                                                                       Energy use per capita (kg of oil equivalent)                     410              388




                                                                                       (US$ millions)

                                                                                       18RD
                                                                                        Total debt outstanding and disbursed                          1,557          1,734
                                                                                        Disbursements                                                     0              0
                                                                                        Principal repayments                                             57             e4
                                                                                        Interestpayments                                                 32             12

                                                                                       IDA
                                                                                        Total debt outstanding and disbursed                            290              365
                                                                                        Disbursements                                                    76               -1
Private Sector Development                               2000        2006               Total debt service                                                8              43

Time required to start a business (days)                     -        45               IFC (fiscal year)
Cost to start a business (% of GNI per capita)               -      134.1               Total disbursed and outstanding portfolio                       125              45
Time required to register property (days)                    -        32                  of which IFC own account                                       9 8         3    4
                                                                                        Disbursementsfor IFC own account                                  6               0
Ranked as a major constraint to business                                                Portfolio sales, prepaymentsand
 (% of managers surveyed who agreed)                                                      repaymentsfor iFC own account                                       3           5
   n.a.
   n.a.                                                                                MIGA
                                                                                        Gross exposure                                                   15              20
Stock market capitalization (%of GDP)                     11.3       23.7               New guarantees                                                    0               0
Bank capital to asset ratio (%)

Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2006 data are preliminary.                                                                     10112/07
., indicates data are not available. -indicates observation is not applicable.




                                                                               38
                                                  C8te d'Ivoire at a Glance (Cont'd)


 Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                                                                     C6te d'lvoire


 With selected targets to achieve between 1990 and 2015
(estimate closest to date shown, +/- 2 years)

Goal 1: halve the rates for S I a day poverty and malnutrition                                                           1590                     1985       ~
                                                                                                                                                                            2000                                 2005
 Poverty headcount ratio at $1 a day (PPP, % of population)
 Poverty headcount ratio at national poverty line (% of population)                                                                               36.8                      38.4
 Share of income or consumption to the poorest qunitile (%)                                                                 7.3                    7.2
 Prevalence of malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                                                               24.0                      2f.7

Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primary schooling                                  _I..__^"                        _.___I_       ~




 Primary school enrollment (net, %)
 Primary completion rate (% of relevant age group)                                                                              41                     37                     40
 Secondary school enrollment (gross, %)                                                                                         21                                            22
 Youth literacy rate (% of people ages 15-24)

Goal 3: eliminate gender disparity in education and empower women                                                      .. . . . . . . . .
                                                                                                                       .
 Ratio of girls to boys in primary and secondary education (%)
 Women employed in the nonagricultural sector (% of nonagricultural employment)
 Proportion of seats held bywomen in national parliament ( O h )

Goal 4: reduce under4 mortality by two-thirds                                                                                                                                 ~    I   ,   "   x   ,    I    ..........
 Under-5 mortalitv rate her 1.0001                                                                                          157                                             ff2                                     132
 infant mortality &e (p& 1,000 live births)                                                                                 103                                             180                                     117
 Measles immunization (proportion of one-year olds immunized, %)

Goal 5: reduce maternal mortality by three-fourths                                                     -,      ..............              ....              ......
 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)
 Births attended by skilled health staff (% of total)

________ ___
Goal 6: halt and bexn to reverse the s m a d of HlVlAlDS and other major diseases __
                                         ._.___
  Prevalence of HIV (% of population ages 15-49)                                                                                                                                                                       7.1
  Contraceptive prevalence (% of women ages 15-49)
  Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 people)
  Tuberculosis cases detected under DOTS (%)

Goal 7: halve the proportion of people without sustainable access to basic needs                            --                                                                         .               ..................
 Access to an improved water source (% of population)                                                                           69                     50                    51
 Access to improved sanitation facilities (% of population)
 Forest area (% of total land area)
 Nationallyprotected areas (% of total land area)
 C02 emissions (metric tons per capita)                                                                                     0.4                        0.5                   0.4                                      0.3
 GDP per unit of energy use (constant 2000 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)                                                  4.8                        4.4                   3.9                                      3.8

____8: develop a global partnership for development
Goal
  Fixed line and mobile DhOne subscribers (Der 1,000 DeoDie)
                                                     . .
  Internet users (per 1,000 people)                                                                                              0                      0                      2                                            11
  Personal computers (per 1,000 people)
  Youth unemployment (% of total labor force ages 15-24)


   Education indicators (%)                                 Measles immunization (%of I-year olds)                                   ICT indicators (per 1.000 people)

                                                                                                                                      20 7




                                                             MI                                                                       10


                                                             25


                                                              0                                                                        0
                                                                         1eso      1985      2ow    2w5                                           zow                 ZW2                      2005




  I    --O-Pnrnaly    net enrollment ratio ( .)

       -0-Ratio of girls to boys in primary &
              secondaly education (.
                                                                  UCBte d'lvoire (..)     USubSaharan Africa
                                                                                                                                                  UFIxed + mobile subscribers (..)
                                                                                                                                                   Internet users



Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.   .. indicates data are not available.                                                                                              10/12/07




                                                                                    39
                                     Annex 6 : Key Economic Indicators



                                                Actual                     Estimate               Proiec ted
                Indicator                                2004     2005      2006       2007     2008      2009          2010
National accounts (as YO GDP)
                          of
Gross domestic product                                     100      100        100       100       100        100         100
 Agriculture                                                23       23         23        23        23         23          24
 Industry                                                   23       26         26        26        27         28          28
  Services                                                  54       51         51        51        50         49          48
Total Consumption                                           80       83         80        82          81          79          79
Gross domestic fixed investment                             11       10         9         9           10          14          15
 Government investment                                       3        3           3        3           3            5          5
 Private investment                                          8        7           6        6           7          9           10

~xports (GNFS~                                              49       51         52        48          50          48          46
Imports (GNFS)                                              39       44         42        40          43          43          43
Gross domestic savings                                      20       17         20        16          17          19          19


Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                                   15501    16373      17568     19438    22743       24600       26600
(US$million at current prices)
GNI per capita (US$, Atlas method)                         770      840        870       --      __          __          __
Real annual growth rates
 Gross domestic product at market prices                    1.6      1.8        -0.3      1.6         2.9         5.1         5.6

Real annual per capita growth rates
 Gross domestic product at market prices                   0.1      0.0        -1.8      0.2          1.4         3.6         4.1




                                                     40
                                       Key Economic Indicators (cont'd)




                                                     Actual                        Estimate               Proiected
               Indicator                                      2004       2005       2006      2007      2008    2009        2010

Public finance (as % of GDP at market pric&s)
 Revenues                                                       17.5       17.1       18.5      19.4      19.4    19.6           19.7
 Expenditures                                                   20.1       19.9       20.9      20.6      21.1    21.4           21.6
 Primary basic balance                                           0.9        0.4        0.3       0.6       0.8     1.2            1.4
 Capital expenditure                                             2.8        2.7        3.1       2.6       3.1     4.5            5.2
 Foreign financing                                               0.7       -0.2       0.0       0.5       -4.1        _-          -_
Monetary indicators

 Growth o f M 2 (%)                                                9.5      7.4        10.3      17.2      7.6        --          -_

Price indices( YR86 =loo)


 Terms o f trade (% change)                                    -11.1       -10.5     5.8       6.9       -2.1    __         __
 Nominal exchange rate (CFAk/US$, period average)               527         527      522       479        446    --         __
 Consumer price index (% change)                                   1.5      3.9        2.5       1.9       4.3        2.7         2.7



a. GDP at market prices
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequitedtransfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use o f IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.




                                                              41
                                          Annex 7: Key Social Indicators


                                                              Latest single year                 Same regionlincome group
                                                                                                           Sub-
                                                                                                        Saharan             Low-
                                                      1980-85         1990-95       1999-05               Africa         income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)                      9.9           13.6           17.8               741.4          2,353.0
  Growth rate (% annual average for period)                3.8            3.3            2.2                 2.3              1.9
Urban population (% ofpopulation)                                                       43.6                35.2             30.0
Total fertility rate (births per woman)                                                                      5.5              3.7
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                                  10.0           36.8           38.4
  Urban headcount index
  Rural headcount index
INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                                      640             770            880                 745             580
Consumer price index (2000=100)                            45              86            117                 127             128
Food price index (2000=100)
INCOMElCONSUMPTlONDISTRIBUTION
Gini index
Lowest quintiie (% of income or consumption)               5.4            7.2
Highest quintiie (% of income or consumption)             61.4
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
   Health (% of GDP)
   Education (% of GNl)                                                                                       3.4             3.1
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
   Total                                                                                                                       80
      Male                                                                                                                     83
      Female                                                                                                                   77
Access to an Improved water source
(% of population)
   Total                                                                   69             51                   58              75
      Urban                                                                                                    80              88
      Rural                                                                                                    43              70
lmmunlzatlon rate
(% of children ages 12-23 months)
   Measles                                                                                                     64              63
   DPT                                                                                                         64              67
Child malnutrition (% under Byears)                                        24             22                   29              39
Life expectancy at blrth
(years)
   Total                                                                   50             45                   47              58
      Male                                                                                                     47              58
      Female                                                                                                   48              59
Mortality
   Infant (per 1,000 live births)                                         103            117                  100              80
   Under 5 (per 1,000)                                                    157            192                  168             122
   Adult (15-59)
      Male (per 1,000 population)                                                                            489             298
      Female (per 1,000 population)                                                                          487             244
   Maternal (per 100,000 live births)                                                                        921             684
Births attended by skilled health staff (%)                                                                   42              41

CAS Annex 85. This table was produced from the CMU LDB system.                                                            10/02/07
Note: 0 or 0.0 means zero or less than half the unit shown. Net enrollment rate: break in series between 1997 and 1998 due to
change from ISCED76 to ISCED97. Immunization: refers to children ages 12-23 months who received vaccinations before one
year of age or at any time before the survey.




                                                                 42
                     Annex 8: IBRDDDA Program Summary C8te d'Ivoire

                       Proposed IBRDDDA Base-Case Lending Program

                                        A o f Date 07/29/2008
                                         s



Fiscal Year                Proj ID              US$@)    Strategic Rewards Implementation
                                                              (m) Risks (H/M/L)
                  Post-Conflict Assistance       120.0           H               H

                                                                H                H

                                                                H                H
              Infrastructure                     94.0
              Reconstruction                                    H               M
              MAP H I V / A I D S                20.0           H               H
              Institutions and Governan                         H               M
              TA                                 13.0
              Reactivation o f Existing
              Portfolio                          104.0


              /Result                           659.0

  2009        Economic Governance and                           H               M
              Recovery Grant I1(EGRG             TBD
              1)
               1                                                H               M
              Emergency Investments in           TBD
              Energy
              & Infrastructure
              Result                             137.0

              I               Overall Result/   796.0




                                                 43
                         Annex 9: Summary o f Non-lending Services

                                       As o f Date 07/29/2QQ8




                 Product                      CompletionFY                      Audiencea Objectiveb
                                                                  US$ '000
Recent completions
Poverty Diabostic/Capacity Bldg.                   FY07               70        G,D,B,PD   PD, K G
Post Conflict Recovery Planning                    FY07               46        G,D,B,PD   PD, K G
Country Social Analysis                            FY08               30           G,B      KG
Interim Strategy Note                              FY08               50         G,D,B      KG
PEMFAR                                             FY08              250         G,D,B      KG
TA on Energy                                       FY08               75           G,B      KG

Underway
Support for PRSP                                   FY09                75
Support to PRIS and M&E                            FY09                65
W-Africa Post Conflict Env. Analysis               FY09                60
Education CSR                                      FY09                60

Planned'
CEM                                                FY09              200         G,D,B      KG
M 1 -donor Assessment/CG
  u ti                                             FY09              135         G,D,B     KG,PS
Health CSR                                         FYlO               40         G,D,B     KG,PS
Post Conflict ICA                                  FYlO               40         G,D,B     KG,PS
Poverty Assessment                                 FYlO              120        G,D,B,PD   PD, K G
CAS                                                FYlO               50                    KG
Support for PRSP Progress Report                   FYlO               35                    KG


a. Government, donor, Bank, public dissemination.
b. Knowledge generation, public debate, problem-solving.
c. Tasks planned currently being reviewed consolidated for greater strategic focus.




                                                   44
                                   Annex 11: Country Financing Parameters


    Date: July 2008
    The country financing parameters for CBte d'Ivoire set out below have been approved by the
    Regional Vice President, Africa Region, and are being posted on the Bank's internal website.
Item                                          Parameter     Remarks & Explanations

Cost Sharing. Limit o n the                   up to 100     Government has demonstrated strong ownership o f project
proportion o f individual project costs           %         objectives and implementation. Projects will continue being
that the Bank may finance                                   aligned with the objectives o f k e y govemment policy
                                                            documents. Given the tight fiscal situation and the
                                                            reconstruction needs, which makes it difficult to seek co-
                                                            financing on-budget, the govemment has requested that
                                                            100% o f project costs be financed by the Bank. I t can,
                                                            however be expected that for some projects the government
                                                            will look for alternative financing arrangements to ensure
                                                            ownership and commitment before the project i s approved;
                                                            involvement o f beneficiary communities and local
                                                            governments in the planning, implementation and monitoring
                                                            o f projects implemented at the local level. The actual cost-
                                                            sharing shall be determined o n a project-by-project basis.
                                                            The Bank will s t i l l encourage cost sharing as a
                                                            demonstration o f ownership.
Recurrent Cost Financing. Any                    No         Recurrent cost financing will not significantly impact debt or
l i m i t s that would apply to the overall    country-     fiscal sustainability. N o country- level limit o n recurrent cost
amount o f recurrent expenditures that        level limit   financing is proposed. The Bank will continue to monitor
Bank may finance                                            fiscal sustainability, the government's commitment to sound
                                                            fiscal policy management, and sound budget management
                                                            and execution; and i t s implications for recurrent cost
                                                            financing. In determining Bank financing o f recurrent costs
                                                            in individual projects, the Bank will take into account
                                                            sustainability issues at the sector and project levels.
Local Cost Financing. Are the                    Yes        The criteria for Bank's financing o f local costs are met. The
requirements for Bank financing o f                         Bank may finance local and foreign costs in any proportions
local expenditures met, namely that:                        required in individual projects.
(i)financing requirements for the
country's      development     program
would exceed the public sector's o w n
resources (e.g. from taxation and
other    revenues)     and expected
domestic borrowing; and (ii)the
financing o f foreign expenditures
alone would not enable the Bank to
assist in the financing o f individual
projects
Taxes and Duties. Are there any                 None        The Bank may finance taxes and duties as long as they are
taxes and duties that the Bank would                        reasonable and non- discriminatory. As o f February 2008,
not finance?                                                there are n o taxes or duties that the Bank would not finance.
                                                            At the project-level, the application o f this approach will be
                                                            subject to a case by case assessment that the share o f taxes in
                                                            total financing o f projects i s not excessively h g h , and to
                                                            regular monitoring o f the tax regime (e.g. through public
                                                            expenditure reviews).


                                                              46
                                    Key taxes and Duties (February 2008)

Item                                        Applied taxes       Observations
Corporate income tax                       [25% - 27%       3   Applies to net revenues o f public and private
(BIC)~                                                          enterprises based o n the size o f the total sales

Income Tax                                  [0% - 18%]          Applies to net revenues o f physical persons
(IGR)~                                                          residing in CBte d'Ivoire or who exercise
                                                                their principal activity in C8te d'Ivoire.
Noncommercial profits taxes                       Yes           Applied to the profits realized by artisans and
(TPS)6                                       [5   - lo%]        single owner business, industrial and
                                                                commercial enterprises (non corporations),
Value Added Tax at a single rate                  18%
(TVA)'
Import Duties                                O%, 5%,            All imports are subject to a 1% (( redevance ))
(DDY                                         lo%, 20%           for processing, a 1.5% tax paid for the
                                             and 40%            functioning o f regional institutions
                                                                (WAEMU and ECOWAS). There are special
                                                                exemptions related to Oil and Mining code
                                                                and Investment Code. Embassies and other
                                                                organizations assimilated to Embassies are
                                                                exempt. Imports from WAEMU countries are
                                                                subject to duties with a range between 0 -
                                                                20%. Maximum [40%] imports duties i s
                                                                applied for other countries




    Benefice Industriel et Commercial
    Imp& GCnCral sur l e Revenu
    Taxe sur les Prestations de Services
'   Taxe sur l a Valeur AjoutCe
*   Droits de Douanes
                                                           47
