FILE COPY                                Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2169-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESAS MUNICIPALES DE CALI (EMCALI)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
SECOND CALI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
February 8, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and My  be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwLse be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1977       January 24, 1978
Currency Unit =  Peso - Col$                     Col $
US$1          =  Col$36.985                      38.04
Col$l         =  US$0.027                       0.02629
The Staff Appraisal Report is based on US$1 = Col$51.4
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                      =           3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometer (km)                 =           0.62 mile (mi.)
1 square meter (m2)              -           10.8 square feet (sq. ft.)
1 cubic meter (m3)               =           35.3 cubic feet (cu. ft.)
1 US gallon (gal)                =           3.785 liters (1)
1 million US gallons per
day (mgd)                     =           43.9 liters per second (1/sec)
1 milligram per liter (mg/l)    =            0.058 gram per US gallon
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
EMCALI           =   Empresas Municipales de Cali
IDB             =   Inter-American Development Bank
INAS            =   Instituto Nacional de Salud
INSFOPAL        =   Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
USAID            =   US Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
SECOND CALI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Empresas Municipales de Cali (EMCALI)
Guarantor:           Republic of Colombia
Amount:              US$13.8 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 17 years, including 4 years of grace;
interest at 7.45% per annum.
Proiect
Description:       The project would improve sanitary conditions in Cali by
moving the discharge of raw sewage downstream from the
city's main intake of water, and by separating domestic
sewage from stormwater run-off; it would increase utiliza-
tion of the installed water production capacity by supply-
ing water to the adjacent Municipality of Yumbo; it would
extend the water supply and sewerage networks to, and
reduce flooding in, certain low-income areas; and it
would increase the area available for orderly urban
growth. All of Cali's and Yumbo's population would
benefit from the reduction of the very hazardous level
of pollution at the point of water intake from the
Cauca River, and about 250,000 people, 70% of which are
among Colombia's poorest 40%, would benefit directly
from the other components. Although the project
faces no special risks, it may not be implemented in the
intended period if EMCALI fails to generate sufficient
funds through timely rate increases and betterment
levies. EMCALI's and the municipal authorities'
commitment to strengthening the entity's finances
should ensure that funds will be available when needed
and that the project will be carried out as scheduled.
This documeni has a rmricwed distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutig. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 3
Estimated Cost:                                            Local  Foreign   Total
-----US$ Million------
(a) Proposed Project:
Water Supply Subproject                 1.39    1.14      2.53
Yumbo Subproject                        1.21    1.98      3.19
Reforestation Subproject                0.35    0.13      0.48
Cauca Interceptor Subproject            3.29    2.49      5.78
Stormwater Subproject                   1.71    0.57     2.28
Sanitary Subproject                     1.65    0.55     2.20
Sewage Treatment Studies                0.12    0.06      0.18
Maintenance Equipment                      -    0.82      0.82
Engineering and Administration          0.87    0.88      1.75
Base Cost                        10.59    8.62    19.21
Physical Contingencies                  1.59    1.29      2.88
Price Contingencies                     2.12    1.48      3.60
Total Project Cost               14.30   11.39    25.69
Interest and Other Charges
during Construction                  5.61    2.38      7.99
Total Funds Required             19.91   13.77    33.68
(b) Other Investments and
Working Capital:
Other Investments                       2.10       -      2.10
Increase in Working Capital             7.10       -      7.10
Total Funds Required
for 1978-1981 Program              29.11   13.77    42.9
Financing Plan:                                            Local  Foreign   Total
-----US$ Million--
Net Internal Cash Generation            17.0       -      17.0
Government Loan                          5.7       -       5.7
Loan from Banco Central Hipotecario    5.7         -       5.7
Proposed Bank Loan                         -    13.8      13.8
Other                                    0.7       -       0.7
Total                             29.1    13.8      42.9



Page 3 of 3
Rate of Return:      The aggregate internal economic rate of return for the
project is estimated to be 22%.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 1679c, dated February 8, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESAS MUNICIPALES DE CALI (EMCALI)
WITH TIE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A SECOND CALI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Empresas Municipales de Cali (EMCALI) with the guarantee of the Republic
of Colombia for the equivalent of US$13.8 million to help finance a Second
Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.45% per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.       *The latest economic report on Colombia (1548-CO) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in May 1977. It assesses current developments and
provides a medium-term perspective of the Colombian economy. Country data
sheets are provided in Annex 1.
Background
3.        During the past two decades substantial structural transformation
has taken place in the Colombian economy. The country has made impressive
progress in the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural
economy made up of largely self-contained regions to a more integrated urban
industrial economy oriented increasingly toward international trade. This
broadening of the country's productive base has been accompanied by rapid
growth of nontraditional exports and development of a modern sector which
relies to a considerable extent on imported inputs. From 1967 to 1974 GDP
rose by an average of 6.5% per annum in real terms, well above the historical
average of less than 5% (1950-67). Accelerated economic growth coupled with
a decline in population growth brought about a rapid increase in per capita
incomes. Increased investment and relaxation of the foreign exchange con-
straint were the major factors responsible for this acceleration in growth.
Merchandise exports expanded more than four-fold during this period, and,
most significantly, nontraditional exports became an increasingly important
source of foreign exchange earnings, in large part compensating the slow
growth of receipts from coffee exports. Much of this increase in non-
traditional exports was the result of both product and market diversifica-
tion attributable to the Government's export promotion program.  Substantial
medium- and long-term capital inflows to the public and private sectors for
development projects helped sustain investment levels and enabled Colombia
to maintain the favorable structure of its external debt. However, despite
the substantial progress made during the past two decades, Colombia still
has a long way to go on the road toward modernization; it still is
essentially an underdeveloped country with a limited modern sector super-
imposed on a broad, traditional and poor base.



- 2 -
4.        When the present Government took office in August 1974, the country
was faced with a generally deteriorating economic situation--weakening balance
of payments, loss of self-sufficiency in petroleum production, accelerating
inflation, deterioration of the public finances, and reduced public invest-
ment. GDP growth showed signs of slowing and unemployment was increasing,
especially in the urban areas, reaching a peak of 13% in 1974. As a con-
sequence, the new administration moved rapidly to introduce an economic
stabilization program along with a set of reforms aimed at restoring the basis
for long-term economic growth. In line with these goals, it initiated basic
reforms of the fiscal, monetary and price systems.
5.        To help strengthen the public finances, the new Government undertook
a comprehensive tax reform designed to achieve a substantial improvement in
the progressivity and elasticity of the tax system. Steps were also taken to
correct major distortions which existed in the price system. Price controls
on a number of important agricultural products were removed, thereby providing
greater stimulus for increasing farm production. Far-reaching modifications
in petroleum pricing policy aimed at regaining self-sufficiency in production
of crude petroleum by improving incentives for exploration and exploitation
were introduced. Concurrently, measures were taken to reduce the subsidy on
local consumption of petroleum products, with the dollar equivalent price of
gasoline being raised in successive steps by 150% between August 1975 to
January 1977.
6.        Economic growth slowed in 1975 and 1976, with real GDP increasing
by less than 5% in both years. This was the result of the stablilization
measures adopted at the end of 1974, the effects of the world recession,
reduced private investment, and, in 1976, a poor harvest stemming from adverse
weather conditions. The stabilization program succeeded in reducing inflation
from 27% in 1974 to 18% in 1975, but the expansionary impact of rising inter-
national reserves caused by higher coffee prices and shortages of basic food
items produced an acceleration of inflation to 26% in 1976. Private invest-
ment declined in real terms during this period as a consequence of growing
investor concern over the deteriorating economic situation and tightening of
credit. Public sector revenues and savings were strengthened as a result of
the tax reform and of increased revenue from coffee export taxes. The balance
of payments improved substantially in 1976, mainly as a result of an increasing
trade surplus caused by higher world coffee prices. Consequently Colombia's
net international reserves rose by nearly threefold, from US$437 million in
1974 to US$1,166 million in 1976.
Recent Economic Performance
7.        Growth and employment picked up significantly in 1977, largely
as a result of increased internal demand generated by the income effects of
exceptionally high export receipts from coffee. Preliminary information
indicates an increase in GDP of 5.4%, spread over all sectors of the economy
except non-coffee agriculture which was affected by the continuation of the
severe drought which began in the second half of 1976. High world coffee
prices during 1977 produced a record trade surplus and the balance of payments
registered an overall surplus for the year of US$686 million. By year end,
Colombia's net international reserves stood at US$1,852 million, equivalent to



7 months' imports, the highest level in the country's history. Increased
export receipts from coffee contributed to a further strengthening of public
finances over that which had occurred in 1975-76. Increased receipts from
taxes on coffee exports caused a substantial increase in the current surplus
of the Central Government, more than offsetting unexpected slower growth in
some of the country's other major taxes.
8.        Expansion of coffee earnings combined with the shortages of basic
food items led to an unprecedented acceleration of inflation during the
first half of 1977. For the twelve month period ending in June 1977 infla-
tion reached 45%. In an attempt to reduce inflationary pressure the Govern-
ment introduced a number of fiscal and monetary measures aimed at curbing
growth of coffee producers disposable income, at further strengthening public
finances and at slowing the growth of the monetary aggregates. Legal reserve
requirements were increased, limits were placed on external borrowing, and
Central Bank rediscounts were reduced. The coffee retention tax rate was
doubled from 23% to 46%, and the system of delayed payments to coffee pro-
ducers was used to further limit growth of coffee producers' disposable in-
come. In order to increase aggregate supply and stem the rapid accumulation
of foreign exchange reserves, import duties were reduced and the import
licensing system was liberalized. In an effort to curb upward pressure on
prices, the authorities temporarily discontinued their policy of periodic
adjustments in the foreign exchange rate and in prices of petroleum products.
The last two measures were of course only a temporary expedient to break the
inflationary spiral. From July 1977, the Government has resumed periodic
exchange rate adjustments and in January 1978 increased the price of gasoline
by 20%. The Government intends to continue to pursue policies that maintain
Colombia's international competitiveness and that help regain petroleum
self-sufficiency.
9.        Another conflict between short term and long term objectives exists
in the Government's interest rate policies. To avoid cost push effects,
nominal interest rates were frozen during the period of accelerating inflation
and real interest rates declined rapidly and became sharply negative. As a
consequence there was a growing unwillingness on the part of the public to
hold medium- and long-term financial assets, and investment funds had to be
increasingly allocated by cumbersome administrative controls. The problem
has become less serious as inflation has abated, but will require further
attention by the Government.
10.       The stabilization measures taken earlier in the year, the gradual
decline of world coffee prices from June 1977 on, and the availability of more
ample agricultural supplies on the domestic market resulting from both im-
proved weather and increased imports, produced a dramatic slowdown in infla-
tion in the second half of 1977. For the full year 1977, inflation was re-
duced to 29%. Further declines in the rate of inflation are expected this
year as the Government maintains tight fiscal and monetary policies.
Additionally, declines in international coffee prices and rapid increases



- 4 -
in imports are expected to further reduce inflationary pressures from the ex-
ternal sector. Prospects for this year's agricultural output appear good, and
the Government is prepared to increase food imports substantially if needed.
Development Strategy and Prospects
11.       The Government's development strategy, embodied in the 1975-78
development plan, aims at creating the conditions necessary for substantially
increasing employment opportunities, particularly for the poorest segments of
the population. It provides incentives for private sector investment in the
least developed areas of the country and for the use of more labor intensive
production techniques. Public sector investment specified in the Plan concen-
trates on expanding and improving infrastructure and on socially oriented
projects designed to alleviate rural and urban poverty. This includes compre-
hensive integrated rural development and nutrition programs which directly
benefit the lowest income groups of the population. Because of the importance
of commercial agriculture in generating employment and expanding exports,
Colombia's development plan assigns a high priority to providing farmers
with credit and technical services required to increase output. In order
to alleviate urban poverty, the Plan places emphasis on reducing migration
to the citLes by increasing employment in agriculture and through provision
of improved services in slums of Colombia's major cities. These efforts
are being complemented by policies and programs to encourage the development
of small- and medium-scale enterprises and to decentralize industry away
from the three largest cities. Special priority is given to the development
of domestic energy sources to reduce the country's growing dependence on
imported oil.
12.       In the past three years substantial progress has been made in
carrying out this strategy despite the economic dislocations occasioned by the
world recession and the need to concentrate on short-term economic management.
Most of the Government's development efforts during this period have focussed
on improving the standard of living of the poorest 50% of the population, with
a substantial share of the benefits of public sector expenditures accruing to
this segment of the population. Provision of improved social services has
been a major objective of the current administration. This is reflected in
the increase in expenditures on education, health, water and sewerage, which
rose from 33% of total expenditures in 1974 to 37% in 1976. Preliminary
estimates show an even higher share spent on such programs in 1977.
13.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate an expanding
deficit which could reach significant proportions by the early 1980s. To
avoid the constraint on growth that shortages of energy would entail, the
Government is giving high priority to the development of alternative energy
sources. Major projects are being developed to expand hydroelectric power
generation and incentives are being provided private companies for accele-
rated exploration and exploitation of the country's hydrocarbon potential.
Coal and natural gas are expected to provide an increasing contribution to
the country's energy needs in the future. An energy development program,
which would nearly triple power generation by 1986, has been drawn up by



- 5 -
the Government, with estimated investment requirements of between US$6.0 and
US$8.0 billion in constant 1976 prices. Given the long gestation periods
of power projects, their execution must be initiated without delay if energy
constraints on future growth are to be avoided.
14.       The Government is making a major effort to accelerate growth of the
agricultural and industrial sectors. In the past, Colombia has been largely
self-sufficient in basic foodstuffs. However, an increasing food deficit is
projected for the years ahead in the absence of major advances in food pro-
duction. The Government is attempting to meet these needs through integrated
rural development programs directed towards small farmers, through expanded
farm credit, research, extension and marketing facilities and through improved
farm management practices, including farm investment planning. Industry has
been singled out as the leading growth sector for the future and the Government
has adopted exchange rate, fiscal incentive, credit allocation, and locational
policies intended to assure that the sector fulfills its role as a major con-
tributor to employment growth.
15.       Based on its strong resource base and its high level of international
reserves, Colombia should be able to sustain annual real growth of no less than
6% over the period 1978-82. Private sector investment is expected to recover
as inflation subsides and fiscal and monetary policies are eased. Public
sector investment is expected to increase as restraints on such spending are
lifted and major energy projects enter the execution stage. Non-inflationary
increases in public sector investment spending depends to a large degree on
continuing government efforts to maintain high levels of public sector savings.
In this regard, timely and adequate adjustments of tariffs on public services
is especially important, and the Government has already gone a long way in
the adoption of such policies.
16.       Less buoyant terms of trade as world coffee prices decline from
the high 1977 level and rapidly increasing imports to meet the requirements
of expanding investment are expected to lead to a renewed widening of the
resource balance beginning in 1978. Assuming that economic growth accele-
rates in the industrialized countries and that appropriate incentives--
particularly continuation of periodic exchange rate adjustments--are provided,
nonttaditional exports should resume the high rate of growth achieved in the
early 1970s. Colombia is projected to require gross capital inflows of about
US$3.7 billion during the five year period 1978-82, of which US$340 million
should be disbursed from commitments made through the end of 1976. This
inflow would enable Colombia to maintain an adequate level of foreign ex-
change reserves during the period. A significant increase in capital require-
ments is expected in the early 1980s when major additional projects in the
energy sector will have to be initiated in order to avoid serious future
constraint on economic growth. To achieve these targets, annual gross
capital inflow will have to increase from US$425 million in 1976 to over
US$1.0 billion in 1982. While about half of this inflow is expected to be
provided by official multilateral and bilateral sources, financing from
commercial sources is expected to become increasingly important during the
period as Colombia gains greater access to international capital markets.



- 6 -
17.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$3.3 billion at the end of 1976, or about US$2.4 billion
excluding undisbursed commitments. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt
(disbursed only) was 28.5% and is expected to decline to about 25% by 1982.
Although the public debt service ratio fell during the past two years as
export growth accelerated, this ratio is projected to increase from 9.5% in
1976 to about 11% by 1982. Balance of payments prospects beyond 1980 will
depend among other factors on the timely development of domestic energy
sources and on progress made in executing several natural resource-based
export oriented projects currently under preparation. As a developing country,
it is normal to expect Colombia to be a net capital importer, i.e. to have a
deficit in its balance of payments on current account. However, to avoid an
excessive growth in this deficit over the next few years, careful management
of internal demand will be required. Given such management, it should be
possible to prevent the external sector from again becoming a constraint
on economic growth, and to maintain Colombia's present creditworthiness
for external borrowing of substantial amounts on conventional terms.
PART II: WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
18.       The proposed loan, the 70th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$1,562.4 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount, US$1,179.1 million is now held by the Bank; IDA made
one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in 1961. Disbursements
have been completed on 45 loans and the IDA credit. IFC has made effective
investments and underwriting commitments of US$53.7 million in 24 enterprises
and now holds US$28.1 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and the IDA credit as of November 30, 1977, and IFC investments as of
December 31, 1977, and notes on the execution of the 24 on-going projects.
19.       Since FY68, Bank lending in Colombia has become more diversified
and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs and activities which
carried social as well as economic benefits. Eight of the eleven agricultural
loans have been made since then, seven of the ten loans for industry, all
three loans in the education sector and all six loans for water supply and
sewerage. This compares with only seven loans since FY68 in the power and
transport sectors.
20.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY77 consisted of loans for rural devel-
opment, agricultural credit, telecommunications, highways and small-scale
industry, totalling US$281 million equivalent. In addition to the proposed
project, the FY78 program includes the recently approved loan for nutrition
improvement, and proposed loans for urban development and power. Work is also
under way in development finance companies, further urban development, urban
sanitation and slum improvement, transportation, mining, power, and small farm
development for possible consideration by the Executive Directors during the
next two years.



21.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a
substantial part of the proposed lending would be for hydro-power. The Bank
would also assist the development of coal mines, which hold potential in
helping Colombia meet part of its energy requirements. Bank involvement in
the energy sector would help mobilize additional external financing as some of
the projects would require co-financing. Other future loans would finance
agriculture and industry to assist the Government in its efforts to raise
overall productivity, income and employment and to strengthen and diversify
exports. Closely related to these objectives would be the proposed Bank
lending for transport infrastructure in more backward areas of the country to
integrate them into the modern economy. In this context, we are proceeding
with a project to improve domestic airports. Finally, we are preparing a
relatively large number of loans in support of the Government's efforts to
help the lowest 50% of the Colombian population. The nutrition project, the
proposed urban sanitation and slum improvement project, and the proposed water
supply and sewerage projects are principally designed to improve the poor's
standard of living.
22.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and AID provided about 75% of total external financing to
Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since then to
approximately 40%. Like the Bank, IDB and AID have given increased emphasis
to social projects. For instance, the IDB has assisted projects in low cost
housing, urban and rural development, agrarian reform, university education,
water supply, and land erosion control; in the future IDB proposes to assist
Colombia in its plans to develop sources of domestic energy and to expand the
activity of the productive sectors to help generate increased employment. AID
has supported programs in education, urban development and small farm develop-
ment. More recently, it has moved to small project loans aimed chiefly at
improving the distribution of income. It is expected to phase out its aid
program in Colombia in 1979 with the commitment of a US$6 million nutrition
loan.
PART III: THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR IN COLOMBIA
AND THE CITY OF CALI
Urban Growth
23.       During the past several decades Colombia experienced one of the
highest rates of urban growth in Latin America. Its urban population is esti-
mated to have reached about 70% of the total; this is more than double that
of 1938. Urban population grew at an average annual rate of 5.5% during the
1951-64 period or one-and-one-half times faster than the growth of total
population. Growth of the urban population has since decreased to an annual
average rate of 4.6%.



- 8 -
24.       Unlike other countries of comparable size and development, Colombia
has several fairly large urban centers. Sixteen cities have more than 100,000
inhabitants. Bogota has about three-and-a-half million, Medellin 1.5 million,
Cali over one million, Barranquilla over 700,000 and Cartagena, Bucaramanga,
Manizales and Pereira each have about 300,000.
Water Supply and Sewerage Facilities, Past Investments, and Financing
25.       Although Colombia compares favorably with many other Latin American
countries as regards water supply and sewerage facilities, one-fourth of its
urban population does not have direct access to public water supply, and
about 60% lack sewerage facilities. The level of service of the rural popu-
lation is much lower: in 1974, 88% of the households with piped water and
96% of those sewerage connections were in urban areas; in the rural areas,
only 33% of the population had access to piped water and only 13% had access
to public sewerage services.
26.        Water supply and sewerage services are provided by the following
institutions:
(a) Municipal Enterprises. Twenty-one of the cities with more than
25,000 inhabitants (accounting for one-third of Colombia's popula-
tion) have their own municipal utilities to provide water supply
and sewerage services. From 70 to 96% of this population receives
water supply services and about 50 to 80% is connected to the
sewerage system.
(b) Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL). Smaller cities
with more than 2,500 inhabitants (which account for one-fourth
of Colombia's population) have their water supply and sewerage
systems coordinated by INSFOPAL. About 70% of this population has
direct access to piped water, while 50% is connected to sewerage
systems. INSFOPAL is undergoing a reorganization, with the assis-
tance of the Bank under a prior project, to enhance its central
planning and financing role in the water supply and sewerage sector.
(c)  Instituto Nacional de Salud (INAS).  Communities of less than
2,500 inhabitants have systems constructed and operated by the INAS.
About 33% of this population has water supply services while 13% has
access to sewerage facilities.
27.        Investment outlays for water supply and sewerage have risen consider-
ably, increasing from US$21.6 million equivalent in 1965 to US$55.8 million
equivalent in 1975. In the 1965-75 period total investments amounted to
US$392 million equivalent, of which 72% was expended by the municipal enter-
prises, 20% by INSFOPAL, and 8% by INAS. About 35% of the total investment
was financed from the national budget, 20% from external sources, and the
remaining 45% from internally generated funds and domestic credits. Six Bank
loans supported the improvement of water supply and sewerage systems in
Bogota, Cali, Palmira and, through INSFOPAL, in 15 medium-size cities and
30 urban communities. Additionally, two recently approved loans for integrated
rural development and nutrition improvement have water and sewerage components.



-9-
Government Objectives
28.       One of the Government's objectives is to improve living conditions
in the urban sector. A major component of this objective is to provide water
and sewerage facilities to about 80% of the urban population by 1980. With
the support of external sources of finance, the Government has been financing
several water and sewerage programs throughout the country. In some cases,
however, progress is being slowed down by the inability of the enterprises to
generate sufficient financial resources. Rate increases to compensate for
raising costs have lagged and the increases now required are such that they
have to be implemented gradually. Nevertheless, the Government is determined
to strengthen the finances of the water and sewerage sector and it has began
to condition assistance from the National Treasury to the enterprises adopting
adequate rate increases.
The City of Cali
29.       Cali, Colombia's third largest city (para. 24), is the capital of
the Departamento del Valle del Cauca, the economy of which is based on a
highly mechanized agricultural sector (mainly sugarcane) and manufacturing
industry (chemicals, food processing, paper, textiles, clothing, printing
and electrical products). Cali is linked by railroad and highway with major
cities to the Northeast and with the Pacific port of Buenaventura. Cali has
also a major international airport.
30.       In the 1950's, Cali mushroomed to become an important center of
economic activity. This encouraged large rural migration. During the period
1951-64 Cali's population grew at an annual rate of 7.2%, i.e., two-and-one-
half times faster than the growth of total population. Growth of Cali's
population has since decreased to an annual average rate of 4%.
31.       Of Cali's total population, 96% is serviced with water and 80% has
shelter with sewerage connections. Only 18% of the area of Cali, however, has
separate sewerage, while the remaining has combined sanitary sewerage and
stormwater drainage which is considered a health hazard (see para. 41 below).
Cali's low-income neighborhoods are located predominantly in the flood lands
of the Cauca River. During the rainy season, extensive flooding makes it
difficult, and sometimes impossible, to provide these neighborhoods with
services such as garbage disposal, street cleaning, police and fire protec-
tion, public transportation, and maintenance of the water supply, sewerage,
telephone and electricity distribution systems.
32.       The role of the local public agencies is very important in Cali,
albeit substantially dependent on Central Government financial support. Of
total public expenditures in Cali, local agencies contributed 49% (compared
to 16% for all Colombia), while the National Government contributed 45%
(20% directly and 25% through its decentralized agencies) in 1975. The
remainder was contributed by the Departmental Government. Of the 49%
contributed by local agencies, Empresas Municipales de Cali (EMCALI), the
proposed borrower, contributed 60%. A Mlunicipal Planning Board, established
in early 1975, provides policy guidance to the Municipal Planning Office
which, in turn, is responsible for preparing the city's four-year plans and
for supervising the municipal agencies.



- 10 -
The First Project
33.       In 1970 the Bank made a loan of US$18.5 million equivalent (Loan
682-CO) to EMCALI to finance half of the costs of the investment program in
water supply, sewerage and drainage which the company proposed for the
period 1970-73. The largest component of the project was the Puerto Mallarino
Water Treatment Plant (about 58% of total project costs), which was to take
care of maximum daily water demand from 1973 onwards.
34.       Project implementation was slow; the project was completed four
years behind schedule, in 1977. Institutional problems, derived in large
measure from the unique political situation that prevailed in Colombia in 1970Q
and operating deficits adversely affected project implementation. An increased
politization of the Board, a high turnover of general managers and inaction to
raise rates to compensate for rapidly increasing costs caused EMCALI's finances
to deteriorate.
35.       EMCALI's financial situation was affected by two other factors.
In the first place, project costs (excluding the two components mentioned in
para. 36 below) rose from the original estimate of US$29.8 million to US$49
million equivalent. Higher domestic and international prices accounted
for most of the increase. EMCALI had to resort to medium-term borrowing
at high interest rates to finance the overrun. Secondly, water demand
fell short of projections. Foreign and local consultants, retained by
EMCALI to prepare the 1970-73 investment program, had projected that daily
per capita water consumption would rise from 230 liters in 1969 to 300 liters
in 1976. Water consumption, however, was only 224 liters per day in J976.
Total water sales were estimated to increase from 76 to 135 million m /year
bstween 1971 and 1976, but actual sales in 1976 amounted only to 82.1 million
m /year. The shortfall is due both to the slower rate of population growth
(Cali s population had been expected to reach 1.3 million in 1975 but reached
slightly less than 1 million) and to increased connections to low income
recipients, who normally have lower water consumption. The rate of return of
EMCALI's Water and Sewerage Division deteriorated sharply and became 0.1%
negative in 1974. As a result of substantial increases in rates, in 1976 the
rate of return has improved but is still below the level agreed upon in the
loan agreement (2.9% against 6% required for 1976). It does not appear
reasonable, in the light of the lower volume of water sales under forecast, to
expect EMCALI to comply with the current agreement. Therefore, new and more
realistic financial targets have been established in connection with the
proposed loan (para. 55).
36.       In view of the foregoing, the Bank agreed in 1974 that the Bank
loan proceeds not be used for two components of the project, the Aguablanca
sanitary interceptor (total cost US$2 million equivalent) and the Napoles
stormwater drainage canal (total cost US$1 million equivalent). As a con-
dition, EMCALI agreed to start construction of the two components of 1976,
with its own resources, but the tight financial situation precluded it from



- 11 -
doing so. In many ways this can be considered fortunate. Changes in urbani-
zation patterns and sharply increased sewerage wastes now make the Aguablanca
interceptor inadequate. Likewise, if built, the Napoles canal would have put
additional stress on an already congested stormwater drainage system. Under
the proposed project, therefore, a larger and more efficient interceptor
and a redesigned drainage canal, which are considered to be the least costly
solutions, would be built.
37.       Notwithstanding this, the first project was successful in many
respects. First, it contributed to increase the percentage of Cali's popula-
tion that is served by water (from 77% in 1970 to 96% at present). Second,
it assisted in providing water supply to Cali's marginal neighborhoods. Four
poor neighborhoods, in which about 32,000 low-income families are living,
received water supply facilities. 1/ Third, it assisted EMCALI to strengthen
its operations. EMCALI simplified its tariff structure and improved water
meter repair and maintenance, record keeping, billing and collections. While
EMCALI's financial performance has been poor, it has begun to improve. The
increased utilization of the Puerto Mallarino treatment plant and the financ-
ial measures (paras. 51, 52 and 53), which are proposed under the second
project, should help strengthen EMCALI's finances.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
38.       The project was prepared by EMCALI with the assistance of Colombian
consultants. It comprises most of EMCALI's 1978-81 investment program.
The project was appraised by a Bank mission which visited Cali in October
1976. Supplementary work was performed by missions which visited Cali in
February, April and September of 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C. on the week of December 12, 1977, with a Colombian delegation led by
Mr. Gabriel Turbay, Director of Public Credit, Ministry of Finance.
39.       The objectives of the project are:  (i) to increase utilization of
EMCALI's installed water production capacity by extending the distribution
network in Cali and supplying water to the adjacent Municipality of Yumbo;
(ii) to improve sanitary conditions in Cali by moving the discharge of raw
sewage downstream from the city's main intake of water, and by separating
domestic sewage from stormwater run-off; (iii) to improve living standards
in certain low-income areas by providing facilities to reduce flooding,
and by extending water supply and sewerage networks; (iv) to increase the area
available for orderly urban growth; and (v) to strengthen EMCALI's financial
and management operations.
40.       Given the lower water demand (para. 35), with the commissioning of
the Puerto Mallarino Water Treatment Plant in early 1978, a great part of
1/   The poor neighborhoods are:  El Rodeo, Union de Vivienda Popular, Siloe
and Terron Colorado.



- 12 -
EMCALI's installed water production capacity would remain unused through the
mid-eighties. By extending the distribution network to unserviced low-income
areas, and by supplying water to the adjacent Municipality of Yumbo, where
most of the new industry is located, the excess capacity would be reduced.
41.       Although about 93% of Cali's area and 80% of its population is
connected to the sewerage system, the quality of the service is poor, and
constitutes a health hazard, for several reasons. Firstly, about 75% of the
city is serviced by a combined system of sanitary sewerage and stormwater
drainage. Concentration of recent population growth in the southern zone,
where 40% of Cali's population live, has rendered inadequate the existing
system, so that often sewage backs up and out into the surface stormwater
drainage canals. Secondly, about 200,000 inhabitants living in the south-
eastern zone discharge sewage directly into a stormwater drainage canal which
traverses a densely populated area. Thirdly, another 200,000 inhabitants
living in the southern and southwestern zones discharge sewage into a storm-
water drainage canal which flows into the Cauca River upstream from the intake
for two water treatment plants that supply about 85% of Cali's potable water.
The contamination level of the Cauca River has reached about 500 times normal
health standards. The proposed Cauca Interceptor subproject, Sanitary sub-
project, and Stormwater subproject will remedy these situations. The Stormwater
subproject aims at stabilizing 535 hectares already urbanized, as well as
1,500 hectares that will enable orderly growth of the city.
Summary Description of the Project
42.       The project consists of the following:
I.   Water Supply Subproject
(i) Construction of a pumping station and a 7,500 m3 water
storage tank; and
(ii) construction of distribution network in the low income
neighborhoods and installation of house connections, including
20,000 water meters.
II.   Yumbo Subproiect
(i) Construction of a 12-km water transmission pipeline
to transport water from Cali to the Municipality of Yumbo,
and construction of service pipes for connecting indus-
trial consumers along the route; and
(ii) rehabilitation of the existing water distribution system,
establishment of a leak detection and repair program,
pitotmetric investigations, and installation of house
water meters.



- 13 -
III.   Reforestation Subprolect
Purchase and planting of about one million trees in the Cali,
Canaveralejo and Pance River basins to increase water reten-
tion in the surrounding area.
IV.   Cauca Interceptor Subproject
(i) Construction of two sewage collectors and a main sewage
interceptor and a lateral collector to receive sewage and
convey it by gravity into a sewage pumping station;
(ii) construction of pumping facilities and a pressure line
to convey sewage from the pumping station to a point 300 m
downstream from the intake of two existing water treatment
plants; and
(iii) rehabilitation of two regulatory stormwater drainage
lagoons, and construction of stormwater-sewage structures.
V.   Stormwater Subprolect
(i) Excavation and construction of 2.5 km of concrete lined
stormwater drainage canal;
tii) rehabilitation of 8.0 km of stormwater drainage canal
and separation of storDwater drainage between gravity
discharge and pumping discharge; and
(iii) construction of 22 km of stormwater drainage network in
various low income neighborhoods.
VI.   Sanitary Sewers Subproject
(i) Rehabilitation of old sewers; and
(ii) construction of sewerage laterals and trunk lines in
various low income neighborhoods.
VII.   Preparation of appropriate studies and preliminary designs
for sewage treatment facilities                       I
VIII.   Purchase of equipment for maintaining the water, sewerage and
stormwater drainage systems
IX.   Engineering services for the detailed design and construction
supervision of the project



- 14 -
Costs and Financing
43.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$25.7 million
equivalent, of which US$11.4 million equivalent correspond to the foreign
exchange component. There will also be required US$8 million equivalent
for interest during construction. During the period of project execution
(1978 through 1981), EMCALI plans to carry out other investments at a cost
of US$2.1 million equivalent, and will require an increase in working
capital of US$7.1 million equivalent.
44.       The proposed loan of US$13.8 million equivalent would finance 54%
of total project cost, i.e. all the foreign exchange costs of the project,
and interest and other charges on the Bank loan during construction (41% of
EMCALI's requirements during the period of project execution).  Financing
of interest during construction is justified in view of EMCALI's cash flow
position. The remaining cost would be financed from ENCALI's internal cash
generation (US$17 million equivalent) and from domestic credits (US$11.4
million equivalent) (see para 54). Retroactive financing of up to US$200,000
the preparation of final designs for the project (Schedule 1, para. 4(i) of
draft Loan Agreement).
The Borrower: EMCALI
45.       EMCALI is a decentralized municipal agency in charge of construc-
tion, administration and maintenance of the water supply, sewerage, power and
telephone facilities in Cali. EMCALI will continue to provide power and
telephone services, and has recently agreed to provide also water supply
services, to the adjacent Municipality of Yumbo. Tentative plans call for
EMCALI taking over the operation and maintenance of Yumbo's water system.
Investments in the Yumbo Subproject (para. 42) will only be made after EMCALI
and the Municipality of Yumbo reach an agreement satisfactory to the Bank on
the terms and conditions of such takeover (Section 5.07(b) of draft Loan
Agreement).
46.       Since 1972, ENCALI is governed by a seven-member Board of Directors
appointed for a two-year term by the City Council. The Mayor of Cali is the
ex-officio Chairman of the Board, and is appointed by the Governor of the
State of the Valle del Cauca, who is appointed by the President of Colombia.
The General Manager is appointed by the Mayor subject to ratification by the
Board of Directors. Although in recent years there have been frequent changes
of General Manager, the next level of management has undergone little change
and is competent. EMCALI is adequately staffed. At present, it has 2,506
staff members, of which 988 work in the water and sewerage division, 308 work
in the energy division and 609 work in the telephone division.
47.       Effective March 1, 1977, EMCALI's organizational structure was decen-
tralized into three self-contained operating units for water and sewerage,
energy, and telephones, which function independently and report directly to
the General Manager. Previously, each division was responsible for physical
production and distribution only.



- 15 -
48.       As stated, EMCALI's management has improved considerably under the
first Bank-supported project. However, further improvement is needed regarding
coordination and financial planning. EMCALI has therefore agreed to prepare
by June 30, 1978, a program to improve EMCALI's management information, budget-
ary and internal control systems and to strengthen the coordination of its
administration and operation units, and promptly thereafter to carry out such
program, with the assistance of consultants to the extent that such assistance
is required in the opinion of the Bank (Part C.2 of Schedule 2 and Section
3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       EMCALI has also agreed to employ engineering consultants, to the
extent required in the opinion of the Bank, to prepare detailed designs for
the project and to assist in the supervision of construction. The consultants
will also carry out studies of future sewerage treatment requirements (Section
3.02 of draft Loan Agreement). The average man-month cost of these consultants
is estimated at US$5,000 equivalent.
Finances
50.       As stated, EMCALI's financial performance deteriorated from 1972
through 1974. Consolidated income, which in 1973 was of Col$70 million,
decreased to Col$59 million in 1974. Substantial tariff increases were ob-
tained in 1975 and 1976, raising EMCALI's net income to Col$78 million and
Col$92 million, respectively. Such increases were insufficient, however, for
EMCALI to service its debt, finance its investments, and meet its working
capital needs. EMCALI, therefore, had to resort to heavy medium-term borrowing
at high rates of interest. By the end of 1976, EMCALI had accumulated US$15
million equivalent of such loans.
51.       Automatic monthly increases in the water and power rates became
effective on January 1, 1976. Water rates have been increased by 1.5% per
month on consumption over a certain quantity. (Of total consumption within
each of the 13 progressive rate categories, about 60% is subject to the
excess consumption surcharge.) Power rates have been increased by 2.2%
per month. Effective May 1, 1976, telephone rates for local calls were
increased from Col$0.10 per impulse to Col$0.16; effective October 1, 1977,
they were increased to Col$0.25 per impulse and to Col$0.30 per impulse on
January 1, 1978. Assurances have been obtained that rates for water and
sewerage, and power services will continue to be increased monthly, auto-
matically, at current rates until December 31, 1981 for water and until
June 30, 1979 for power (Sections 5.04(a) and 5.05 (a)(ii) of draft Loan
Agreement, and Section 3.02 of draft Guarantee Agreement).
52.       About Col$340 million (about US$6.7 million equivalent) of addi-
tional revenues for water supply and sewerage operations will be obtained from
a program of reassessment of property values, started in early 1977, which
moves the affected properties into higher rate categories. The new assessment,
for which no further decision is required, will be gradually implemented over
three years. EMCALI agreed fully to implement its reassessment program by
June 30, 1979 (Section 5.04(b) of draft Loan Agreement). The automatic monthly
increases in water rates plus the reassessment of property values will cause
average water and sewerage rates to increase by 22% in 1977, 28% in 1978,
15% in 1979, 10% in 1980 and 13% in 1981.



- 16 -
53.       In Colombia, as in some other countries, certain investment costs
are recovered through a betterment levy (impuesto de valorizacion) imposed on
the owners of property which benefit from public infrastructure works. Such
levies have been particularly successful in Colombia, especially regarding
urban road and sewerage systems construction. Assurances were therefore
obtained that EMCALI will charge and collect during the 1978-1984 period not
less than a proportion agreed with the Bank of the cost of certain sewerage
works included in the project (about US$15.5 million equivalent) (Section
5.09 of draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements of the proposed Bank loan on
account of expenditures for each subproject in respect of which valorizacion
must be collected, will be made only after the Bank receives satisfactory
evidence that all necessary authorizations and approvals required to charge
and collect valorizacion in respect of such works have been obtained (Para-
graph 4 (ii) of Schedule I to draft Loan Agreement). Storm water drainage
facilities and certain other works (but in the latter case only to the extent
that their cost has been recovered through valorizacion) will be excluded from
the base on which the rate of return is calculated.
54.       EMCALI will also receive a loan of Col$300 million (US$5.7 million
equivalent) from the Government, and a loan of Col$300 million to be partly
financed by the mortgage bank (Banco Central Hipotecario). The proposed Bank
loan will only become effective after arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
are made to provide EMCALI with these loans on terms and conditions, including
the schedule of disbursement, satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 3.01(b) and
8.01(a) of draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.02(i) and (ii) of draft Guarantee
Agreement).
55.       EMCALI would continue to obtain an acceptable rate of return for
water and sewerage, though lower than agreed under Loan 682-CO. The latter
provided for targets requiring tariffs higher than the marginal cost of water.
In addition, assets in operation of the water and sewerage division will
almost double in the near future. EMCALI therefore agreed to obtain annually,
starting in 1978, operating revenues sufficient to achieve a financial rate of
return of not less than 3% in the water and sewerage division, increasing to
4% in 1982, 4.5% in 1983, and 5% thereafter; 8% in the power division; and
5.5% increasing to 8% in 1979 and thereafter in the telephone division, such
returns to be computed on the revalued cost less accumulated depreciation of
fixed assets in service of each division (Section 5.05 of draft Loan Agree-
ment). An additional condition of effectiveness will be that all decisions on
rates necessary to enable EMCALI to achieve the agreed 1978 return on its
telephone divisions shall have been taken (Section 8.01(b) of draft Loan
Agreement.) For purposes of calculating the rate of return, fixed assets will
continue to be revalued in accordance with methods satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 5 of Schedule 5 to draft Loan Agreement). The proposed annual rates of
return would place EMCALI in a satisfactory financial position, i.e. would
generate sufficient funds to cover its debt service and its working capital
requirements, and to contribute to finance its investment program.
56.       EMCALI has also agreed:  (a) not to undertake any investment not
included in the financing plan on the basis of which this proposed loan is
presented, through any of its divisions, without the concurrence of the Bank,
until the project is completed, if the aggregate cost of all the investments



- 17 -
in the same division exceed the equivalent of US$1 million in any year (Section
5.07(a) of draft Loan Agreement); (b) not to incur any long-term debt without
the Bank's concurrence, unless the projected net income before interest and
depreciation in respect of the division for the benefit of which the debt is
to be incurred (excluding income derived from valorizacion) is at least 1.3
times its maximum debt service in respect of such division (Section 5.06 of
draft Loan Agreement); and (c) to continue to have its financial statements
and accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section
5.02 of draft Loan Agreement).
57.       Until mid-1977, EMCALI used in an unrestricted manner funds gener-
ated in one division to finance expenditures of other divisions. Transfers
were made to the water and sewerage division even hampering the financial
position of the power and telephone divisions. EMCALI has agreed that in the
future such inter-division transfers will be made only in cases where the
division originating the funds does not require them for its operations, debt
service, and investments. Furthermore, after June 30, 1977, the transfers
will be treated as loans from one division to the other, on commercial terms
(Section 5.08 of draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       All contracts will be let under international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines, except for civil works contracts under
US$300,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate of US$2 million equivalent, which
will be let under local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. Suppliers of goods manufactured in Colombia would receive a margin of
preference of 15% or the import duties, whichever is lower.
59.       The loan would be disbursed over a four-year period.  Disbursements
would be made against (i) 100% of the foreign expenditures for imported goods;
(ii) 25% of the ex-factory cost of Colombian goods which represents the esti-
mated foreign exchange cost of such goods; (iii) 25% of civil works, which
represents their estimated foreign exchange cost; (iv) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures or 40% of total expenditures for consulting services; and (v) interest
and other charges on the Bank loan during project construction. The loan is
expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1982.
Benefits and Risks
60.       The proposed project aims at improving the living conditions of the
residents of Cali and Yumbo. About 250,000 people would benefit directly
from the project, of which 70% are among the lower forty percent of income
recipients. The sewerage subprojects (Cauca Interceptor, Stormwater and
Sanitary Subprojects) have benefits that can not be measured exclusively
against the expected incremental operating revenues; the land affected by
the subprojects would appreciate in value, and EMCALI proposes to tax part
of this increase (see para. 53). For the purpose of computing the increased
land values and the revenues thereon, two assumptions were made: (a) the
value of land presently subject to frequent flooding would be equal to the
value of nearby land free of flooding and (b) the value of unimproved land



- 18 -
in the southern zone would be equal to the value of improved land in the
same area, but the increase would be reflected over a 10-year period to take
account of market fluctuations. On this basis, the aggregate internal rate
of return for the sewerage subprojects, which account for 59% of total
project cost, is estimated to be 21%. The estimated internal economic rate
of return of the Water Supply Subproject, whose revenues would come directly
from water sales and which accounts for 14% of total project costs, is 36%.
The Yumbo Subproject, whose revenues would come from water sales and
valorizacion and which accounts for 18% of total project costs, has a rate of
return of 13%. The weighted average internal rate of return of these subproj-
ects, which account for 91% of total project costs, is estimated to be 22%.
Internal rates of return were not computed for the remaining components of the
project because of the predominance of non-quantifiable factors.
61.       The project is technically feasible and offers limited risk.  The
water supply component is based on the increased utilization of production
facilities constructed under the prior project. The sanitation components do
not present any major engineering difficulty, as they take into account the
experience gained under the prior project. The only risk is that the project
may not be implemented in the time proposed if EMCALI, because of inaction to
raise rates, would be unable to mobilize the required local currency resources.
Given the assurances obtained from EMCALI that rate increases and betterment
levies will be implemented in a timely fashion (paras. 51 and 53), and, more
importantly, the general acceptance by all political sectors of the need to
strengthen EMCALI's finances, it is expected that the project will be carried
out in the intended period.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and EKCALI, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank, and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
63.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be the finalization of
arrangements for the Col$600 million loan to EMCALI (para. 54) and all action
necessary to enable EMCALI to obtain in 1978 the agreed rate of return on its
telephone division (para. 55). Disbursements for each subproject in respect
of which valorizacion would be collected would be made only after all autho-
rizations required to charge it have been obtained.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 8, 1978






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                 Page I of 4 pages
COLOMBIA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LANU AREA (THOU KM2)
---------------                                 COLOMBIA                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     1138.9                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     223.9                       1960      1970   ESTIMATE           TURKEY         BRAZIL        MEXICO**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    210.0*   350.0*    640.0*/a             500.0*      550.0*      690.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
____-__________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           15.4      20.6       24.2/a             35.6        92.8       50.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       14.0      18.0       21.0               46.0        11.0       26.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       71.0       93.0     108.0/a              65.0        49.0       52.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         46.1**    44.3**    40.6**              40.6        38.4       43.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          14.7      11.0        8.8               14.4         9.9        10.2
INFANT MoRTALITY RATE (/THOU)       100.0JA    70.0/a                       153.60/a    110.0       68.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       54.7       58.5      60.9               54.4        59.4       62.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2       3.2        3.1                2.6/b,c    2.6          3.1
POPULiTION GROWTH RATE                  3.2       2.9        2.8(X
TOTAL                                 32        29          .82.5                         2.9        3.4
OURAN                                 6.0/b     5.s/b    4.6                  4.9/d       5.0        4.8
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          53.0/c    60.0      70.0 fb             38.7        56.0       58.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       46.6LC    46.6       44.1               41.7        42.0       46.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                      50-4  C    50.4       52.7               54.0       55.0        50.1
65  YEARS  AND OVER                  ,3.37      3.0        3.2                4.3         3.0        3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.0/c     1.0        0.9                0.9         0.8         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.    c  1.6/c      1.6/c              1.1/e       1.5         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          0.5     306.9      955.1                *.        250.0       55.5
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..      31.0                8.2         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        5100.  c  6300.0    6B00.0              14500.0/f  29400.0    13000.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         47.0 -    39.0         ,,               67.0        40.4       45.0
UNEMPLOYED  (% OF LABOR FORCE)          80/d,e   7.0       10.2/d              4.0         7.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF P::lVA7Z INCOME  RECD  Y-         -/
HIGHEST   5% OF HOUSEHOLDS           41.iy?Lf 31.9 M        *-               32.8/h     35.0/a    2if.
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           67.7/c.f 60.1/d             *      -    60.6/h      62. 0/a     58.3
LOWEST  4  20%F O OUSEHOLDS          2.cf  3.5/d            *-               2.9/h       3.0oa       3.4
6- /c.f 10.1                        9.4./h     lO.O1a      10.5
DISTRIBUTION OF LAUG DNERSMIP
X OWNED  BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS            ..         ..      80o/o e            53.0        45.0        37.1
% OWNED  BY SMALLEST  10% OWNERS         ..         ..       o.2/e              0.9         1.5         0.3
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION  PER  PHYSICIAN           2400.0    2110.0    2100.0/f            2250.0      1910.0     1480.0
POPULATION  PER  NURSING  PERSON     3520.0 j       ..    1450.0 7           1770.0/i   3220.0/b   1620.0/a
POPULATION  PER  HOSPITAL  BED        580.0     430.0      470.0F             500 s.      260.0      960.0
PER  CAPiTA  SUPPLY  OF -
CALORIES  (X OF REQUIREMENTS)        94.0      97.0       97.0g            110.0       109.0      114.0/b
PROTEIN  (GRAMS  PER  DAY)           50.0        51.0     51 .07             78.0        64.0       65.0
-OF WHICF ANIMAL AND PULSE         28-0/h    29.0/e       ..               22*0L1      3     9.0  28.0/c
DEATH  RATE  (/THOU)  AGES  1-4        16.3       8.4         ..               14.7/k        ..         9.8
EDUCATION
ADUUSTED  ENROLLMENT  RATIO
PRIMARY  SCHOOL                      77.0     100.0     106.0               109.0        87.0       104.0
SECONDARY  SCHOOL                    12.0      23.0       36.0               28.0          .,       22.0
YEARS  OF  SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST  AND  SECOND  LEVEL)          11.0      11.0       11.0               11.0        11.0       12.0
VOCATIONAL  ENROLLMENT
(% OF  SECONDARY)                    31        2                             14.0        17.0       24.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE  (%)                 ./      73.0       74.0-f             55.0/1      64.0        76.0
HOUSING
PERSoNS  PER  ROOM  (URSAN)              ..         .-        .-                1.9         1.0         2.2
OCCUJPIED  DWELLINGS  WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                      59.0L    *- *- 64.0                                 73.0/C       1.0/d
ACCESS  TO  ELECTRICITY
(X OF  ALL  DWELLINGS)               47.0/c      .-         ..               41.0        48.0       59.0
RURAL  DWELLINGS  CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY   X)                   8.0 j       ..                         18.0         8.0        28.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO  RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)       139.0     105.0      117.0               89.0        60.0       276.0
PASSENGER  CARS  (PER  THOU  POP)       7.0       11.0      13.0                4.0        25.0        24.0
ELECTRICITY  (KWH/YR PER  CAP)        244.0/e   414.0      599.0              247.0       491.0       567.0
NEWSPRINT  (KG/YR  PER  CAP)            2.4       2.7        2.1                0.7         2.7         3.2
-------------------------------------------------------------------_____----__------------------------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



dOSNED I
Page 2 of . pages
NOTES
Ulsotherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwee  1959 and 1961, for 1970 betoo-   1968 and 1970,  -rd for Mon,,
Re.eo- Estimate betwee 1973 and 1975.
GNP per capita data are based o the World Bank Asian methodology (1976-76 basin).
enOffioial n-tinone  based on neitrt s,so  erode birth rtet for 1960 As 39.0, averge oode birth rtet Ier 1961-70 a
36.0 and far 1971-74 as 31.0.
nnn ieso  bas been selected As An ebjenti-e ne..ntry be-us  Colembia in sew in the stage ef ecn                   development that Plenbi  wa
In ten year  ago.  Beth o-utrina aim At a GD? growth rtet of about 7 percet aed At a aubta-tial redootio- of ...enplnynt.
COLOMBIA     1960    Ln  Regiatered only;        lb  1951-64;    Ic  1964;         /d  Begota only;      Ie  1963;    IfE....n.nically
aetive pnpnlatiio;    li,  1965;    /b  1961-63;          /0  Petal  -oedory inclde-  teac.her training at tbe
third leve;    /I  Water piped inside.
1970    /A  Rate base.d on banal1 permits;    lb  1964-70;           /c  Ratio of popelatin  sod-r 15 and 65 and snot in ntal
labor force;    Id  Ecan..nleelly active population;    Ie  1964-66.
POJST RECENT ESTIMATE:      fs  1976;      /b  1977;    It  Ratio of popiatin nader 15 and 65 end ove  no total labor force
Id  Harri  1977,  -vrgeeseply ..t rate In seven largest nines;                  /e  1971;
/f  1972;    i&  1970-74 avenge;    /6h  1969-71  veruge.
TURKEY    1970    Ia  1967;    /b  REclade 170. retets provisena;            /c  1965-67;      /d  1965-70;      /n  Ratio of po,psiettn under
13 and 65 and ove  to labor 15 yeme  and ever;    If  15 yeas and evr,  -nludes  -nplnyed;    I_g  Regist-rd
esly;    lb  Dispo..ebln incom;         1i  Ineluding assistant nurse  and midwive;    /1  1964-66;              /k  1967-6f;
/1  Persona sin years and ove  who tell the cessn.. takers that they  -ne rad and write.
BRAZIL    19710     I   Esa....ically aetive popalation;   /b  Wsplia1 persnnl;               Is  Inside only.
MEXIOc     1970    /aIn-Iding ...siatast nuse;              /b  1969-71 averge;    _Ic  1964-66;          Id  Inside only.
R12, January 31, 1978
DEPINMOITOS OF SOCIAL INDICATOBS
Land Area  then as2)                                                                         PPalatiam  Pr  -rsina Persee - Pepulatian divided by snber of prrsicie
Total   Totl  -sfaee aree   mprising land area and inland waer.                                  al  ad fms1l  gradsate ene        "trained  or  certified' nurses, and
mginis  -Mo   tneont nanimats af agricultural se sand tmsperarily  -r pnm-_                    aafliary ptrsean1 with training or neperle-.
netly for craps, pastures, markt & kitehen gardn- or no lie fallsc.                        P.p.latian pa  hasnita1 bed - Pepulatian dieided by   mb-r of hespita1 beds
Aesfiable in peblie and priosne gsnsral1 AM, spetalised haspLtal end
GNP net -apisa (US$) - GNP Per -apita eatbte  at currant macket pricas,                        teshbilitaien eneter; emeIdes sensing h-A.s and estblilaseta fer
ea1eulated by . e   ...cnetiar sthad as Warld as-k -as (1973-75 baals) ;                     cualadial sed prevatnlv  ear.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                  Psr..Pit.a Keenly of nlrs % attfCtme l -Copeted fram enegy
qai-alset ef met fead sapplias avilable in sanr.          e   aiepr dy
Pealation and nita1 atnsie.vilable sepplies .-tapine d-seais prod-ction,imparts1 lass tem.porse, an;d
PPan1laian fold-veer tnilln       A   f Joly first:  if sa  available, averge                  changes in stek; net supplies netleda asi.los  fesd, seeds, qsatitise sand
ftwen-year snntse;  '6i, 1970 and 1975 data,i  edpaesn   n  lsr   ndatbte;tqernat   ar   siae
by PAD Base.d en physielagisal meed  far nAra  asnitity and health e- id-
PPoelaIot  daen    rtssre ksa - Hid-yea  popalation pee squre kilat-t                          sting envirs tmsa  tnsp-tst.e   bedy nights, age and s.. diattibtions at
(100 bestates) of tonal area.PePelatie, and aleing10%far wase  t bsaheld 1a-e.
Ppeelation denaicy - ear a-t  be of Agric. lend - Camputd As abov-o.e  aia  ed Weuen -e                                              erdvi-P.etein content ef per -apita
agi ItrL lad only.                                                                     netteapply at fond pat day; ass sepply of food is defimed as shav; rquitt-
mAstsfWe all nentrtes established by UDAD  Eononie R searsb Serrisea
Vital statistics                                                                               peavide far a  iim      alwac  at hi grm    f rteS1 protein Ps  day, and
Grade birth -ate eat th-Asa. avegan  - dance  fine bitha Pat theoaad of                        2i gta o  aimel and palan protei, of whisk IDrm    ho1d be animal
mid-year papelaties; ten-year a-itintis averages ending in 1960 sad 1970,                    protein; tbesetendeeds are lowr than those of 75 gra    of total preteis
adfi_e _a.avrtgo  endin is !:19175 get _et reset esti_sat                                  ed 03 gram   ef animal prtni  As an averge for the asr1d, prepesd by PAl
n de.deah rate per thudsand, area   - omsl deeths Par thasand ef aid-yea                    in the Third Wenld Peed Deny.
population; sen-year anitnetie vtae  ending in 1960 end 1970 and five-                     Peaine n"tie sanely fton animal and noise - Protein sepply of food
ye   avraga ending is 1975 foraa5 ee t nethte                                                derived tram  aniala end psLas ia grams pet day
Infantmentalty tat  flnhal - anue dAth=  of1 ifti  nader at  yeas  ft age         Death tate 0/ha) .. 1-4 - nAnnea deah  Per thaedi   g   re   -
petr naad live births.                                                                        yets  to shildran in this  g  gru;egeas   ne  indictor of
Life asnectansy as birth fytel - average n,abar ofyasofY lf.rmiin   n_antriti_n.
birth; osasily fiv-y-a  -nrges ending in 1960, 170 and 1975 tot develp-
lag nosattias.                                                                             Edosation
erserentdei rntate  -n rge  easber of live da-ghtereAwoA. . n ill heat                        adinete.d enrollmen rthia. - nea  eshal - Enrollmnt at all ages as pa-
in her noma  repredutiv- period if eke enpeti-ne  present age-epefiti                        nasg   tpiey  e laeppltion; isciedee  hildre ge   -i  er
fertility  rto te; us slly fivs-yea-  vatgas ending is 1960, 1970 and 1975                   bet edjeatd for different lnngtha of priany Adeca.tin; fee eamtriA with
for developing s tren,nsie                                                                    unvrAl .d.tion, enrellaet may emed100%  ifesa a    pupils are below
populatin snownbrate (7, _-trena  - Campeod a-sa  growth rocee sf  id-y-ao  above the etf,isi1 shmeI ag..
populetias far 1950-60, 1960-70 and 197D-75.                                               Adiatsd enralloset r-tia -eetondatv sehas  - Ceepsted as abov; esondery
Poenltion as-tb rate 1%) - aches - tampered like growth rate of total                            dec..ion  aqires an least face years at approvd pri-ay iarcin
panslacion; differet dafinition   of er_aeare     maY affect  oparability of                 peevid. geerl vstioml or teacher tiriann   inatsatias  far papils
data among censtte.-                                                                       o.f 12 to 17 years of age; cerreapandene   wsg  are generally etiwded.
Uehem eaeulatien (% of tato1  - Batie of ahon E  total pepsiation; diffetrt                  Yerst  . ehele  eeided  foirt t  essed ssl-lo  - PenAl yacee a
definition   of arhn areas -y  fftant enparahility at data o-mg   -ttansiea.                 sbaig   tsnsir Ael veaiem1 iasarriam  my ha partialy o
pm atston  e  tlen   - Children (0-lb years), wokig-ge(1-hh4yeara) ,                  seinlerLdadt    o  ea f            dayl -.Vnaiana  inatituni,m   i-elde
adrtire   (65 yearsed oe)a  prsetrgee at mid-yat                1 pouaion.                tanhaisea, idotria1 at other p-g-a whIch oPerate  nsadat
ass depaedo-y rat.so .rtio of papolotio  under 15 and 65 end ave  te tho.o                     deparlets of secondary isstirtrtna
of egna 15  hthroh 64.                                                                       dei litersty rtet 01  - Lit.retai  adults (able eoread and write) As Pe--
Eionami  depeadnec  taia - Ratio of poplation  ader 15 and 65 and nea  to                        Atage of total adlt population aged 15 yearn  an  ove.
the labor farce Is age goop of 15-64 years.
Family.1. eaieo-a.e.....t.. (etmoa.dye  then) - Conniativ  soake  of a...eptors              Hassing
of htt-seatol1 device  under ...picas of national fily plameing program                    Persoa netro.am  (,tbe) - Average nenhe  of pnrson  per roa  in aeapied
mince icPtion                                                                                 covniona Idwellings in othbar             dwellings e-slde aen-pennett
FamilY ela..aina-"ets 0  ofmtrihd wes-Protgeof martind eae  of                                  st_uctote  aed   onsePied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44  et)  h   n  birth-conto1 deviosm  to all married                 ot.npind d-wellag  withst rind water-%           Ot-upied sonvensioe1 dwellings
etnIs, sam  af  group.                                                                    in urban and rurAl-ra  witha-  iomide          -- nride piped w-ter fcil itiJ.a
Total labor tome fthb...andl)      cnnclyatv   persona  1s ding armed                           elec%tricity in living quaters as paents. o,f tatal dwellinga In sehanhand
fsrcnn an.   npad  thteroigbuenvs   tdae   s..; definiti_n                                      na  arna.
In vaiaa    nirie  Are son coparable.                                                      Rural dwell1ina  s-neted to e1letticity   )- Campoted as above tot rara
labor fensi  arintueT   - Agri-elto1 labor force(in farming, fotna-ry,                          dwlings only.
hostingen  faiag ) Amecnaeo  tonal labor fates
Inn rd(0% of laborfre)-            7 nlyd ate wesally defined as person  she            tonsaPtio
ore7 abeadwligrHaeajo,eto     o   eagn   day, remined ens                                   Radi, reevf ettennn       l  yesa   eevr   o  tadla brs- s
at A Job, and seehing wth tar A specified mieon period sot asedigon                           o  n      Irpublicrper thensad of ptapultifa   sldenvlss                eevr
saak; ma  o  b   apaal   etenconne  due so different definitinsin tn-t1ie  end in years when regiration of radio  ete wa  in effact;
of unmployd an  aente atdata, e..,_playn    officstiere,ams                           dot  fatisn  yersmy nor be  -ap-bahi  sinc  mas..t  betie 1aainhed
_nvys, s_peleary s__playeat inea .licensing.
PIasenoer earn Instshoe pee) - Passenger sate emprise amt- sees seating
I-n  diateibstien  - P-t-otoge at pivate insn   (bath is sash end kiod)                         les  than eight para ;  -mldes embeleona, h-erse  end military
received by richest 5%, rieheet 20D%, poorest 207%, and poorest b0T of beem-                  vehicle..
ba1de.                                                                                      Elne.trWit, Okb/blr Par sar   - A--Ja  ssa,ptin af indsartal,   --etisl,
.f  I..d   -.d  b   -.Ithi.t Ipubli  an d Pri-ate a1esteisity in kilowat beers per naplntgenegrally
lictbeia  a  lndoanshn-ntenaes  flad  wnd  y  ebsinet  0'                                base.d on producion dens,itheet ell--n  far lasses in grds bet alie-
aed poarest 10% at lend onrs,p                                                                 agEa  imparts and.enp-ts of  lee.trisiny
Bewnerit fits/yrea       )- Per sPira a--Ia e-Am-Ption in kiiegr-
Health aed Ntsition                                                                             estimated from  d_metis Predastie   le  men- Bmpt   a-. t-  newsprintt.
PaeIlaien earphvsieie   - Papelatio  divided bY-aber of Pt..tisieg
phyisas  qe1ified ftra  A medical ashoal at oninesity level



A8NEX I
ECONDMIC DEVILOPMNT DATA
(In millioms of US dollars)
1979   Actual    _Estimt d                          Po1dd tt                                                     __LIg Arul_othRt   gP,rcet of CDP
1967- 69
Averag     L974       1975        1976       1977        1978        1982         (l967-69)-74   1971-77   1978-82       1974      1977      1982
IIAT1O01L ACCOUNTS                                     1976 Prices end Exchange Rates
Croos Do estic Product                 9,795      14,262     14,893     15,i65      16,406       17,406     22.079             6.5          5.0        6.1     100.0     100.0      100.0
Gains fro  Terms of Trade (+5           -751       -403        -456       -           608           264        102              -            -          -        2.8       3.7        0.5
Gross  tooestic Incoe                            13,859      04,438  1 57565        17,          0        14 17,660   2  2      3   7                           97.2
Import (Incl. NFS)                     1,491      2,306       2,152      2,318      2,939         3,365    . 4,496             7.5         16.9        7.5      16.2      17.9       20.4
Exports   '     (mpot Cpacity)         1.419      2.066      _2.297      2,992      351           3,199      4.237            6.3    35               7,3       14.      2.13      .19 2
Re-oorca  Gop                             72         240         4        -574       t              166        259              -            -          -       1.7        3.4       1.2
Conatteprion Dapeodivurat              7,445     10,877      11,663     11,812     12,955        13,806     17,223            6.3           5,4        5,7      76.3      79.0       79.0
I-veatwont     '    (1od. Stocko)    2,101        3,223       2,630      3,179      3,497         4,056      5,217            7.4          15.3        6.5      22.6      21.3       23.6
Docstic S-vings                        1.589      2,982       2,775      3,753      4,059         3,854      4,958           11.1          20.9        6.5      20.9      24.7       22.5
National Savings                       1,865      2,834       2,544      3,531      3,969         3,742      4,776            7.2          24.9        6.3      19.9      24.2       21.6
MEROtGISE TEADE                                        Annual Data t Corrent Prices                                                                                Ao Percoct of Total
-    Imnport s
Capital Goods                          290        525         510        575        724          895      1,455            10.4          19.1      12.9       34.7      30.5      27.5
Intertoediste Goods (Earl. Puels)      254        813         705        803      1,193         1,475     2,481            21.4         30.0       13.8       53.8      50.3      46.9
fuels and Related  ateriuls              3          6          14         73        153          189         766           12.3            -       41.8        0.4       6.4      14.5
of tcich:  Pctruleos                 (-5        (-5         (14)       (73)      (153)        (189)       (766)            -             -      (41,8)       C-)      (6.4)    (14.5)
Comaumoption Goods                      61        167         166        214        304          376         591           18.3         33.3       17.0      11.1       17.0      11.2
Total Merchsodie Iports (FOB)         6S       1,511      1,395       1,665      2,374        2,935      5,293            16.4         30.5       15.9     100.0      10.       100.0
foports
Prixers  Poodu-ts (Earl. FPols)        418      1,001       1,202      1,776       2,484       2,490      3,971            15.7          18.4      12.4       67.0      80.2      74.9
uf ohirt!  Coffas                    341        662         672      1,316       1,753       1,360      1,431              -          -22,4       1.3         -       56.6         -
Fuels and Related Materials             71         95          87         87          93          90         173            5.0         - 3.2      17 7        6.4      -3.0        3.3
of   J.hici   Petroloma              (56)        (4)        (-5        (-5         (-)         (-)         (-)         (-35.5            _                  (0.3)      (-)        j )
Mamnufactured Goods                    117        398        420         515         520         458      1,160            22.5         11.9       26.1      26.6       16.8      21.0
Total Merchandisa Eaporco (rOn)        606      1,49        1,717      2,378       3,097       2,948      5,304            16.2          -4.8      15.8    iOO .0      10 0
Sterchandise Trade Indices
I.port Price Indas                    21.2       72.4        74.5      100.0       136.6       129.8      160.0
I.port Prite Ioden                    34.0       90.0        93.0      100.0       107.7       116.3      134.9
Ten-e of Trade Index                  62.3       80.4        00.1      100.0       126.8       111.6      103,3
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR (Factor cost)          Annu-l Data at 1976 - Frices and Exchangte Rat.s                               Average Ano-xi Growth Rate.             As Percent of Total
Agriculture                          2,951      3,939       4,181      4.244      4,328        4,458      5,017             4.9           1.7       3.0       29.7      28.4       24.7
Industry sod Mining                  2,444      4,013      4,087       4,210      4,505        4,823      6,299             8.6           5.0       6.9      30.3       29.5      31.0
service                             4,439       5.303       5.641     6,0211     6.425         6.864      8,997             3.5_          6.7       7,0      40.0       42,1      44 3
Tota1                                9.834     13,257     13,909      14,482     15,250       16,145     20,313             5.1           4.7       5.9     100.0      100.0     100.0
PUBLC  FINANCE                                        Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                                 As P-rcent of GDP
(Central Govaruneut)
Current Receipts                     413      1,194       1,402      1,589      2,018        2,220      3,308            19.4         20.0       10.5       9.5      10.0        9.3
Corrsnt Expenditures                 262        640         702        821        919          999      1,637            16.0         14.4       13.1       5.1       4.5        4.6
Budgetary Savings                    151        554         700        768      1,099        1.221      1,671            24.2         25.3        8.2       4.4       5.4        4.7
Other Pbhli  Sector Savings         434        150         394        334        418          481        925           -16,2          3.0       17.8       1.2        2.1       2.6
fublic Sector Iousatteot             612      1,189      1,382       1,496      1,550        1,975      3,453            11.7          5.9      15.0        9.4       7.7        9,7
SELECTED INDICATORS                                        1965-70    1974-77    1979-82                        DETAIL ON  1UBLIC SECTOR                   A. % of Total
INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND FINANCING       Actual       Planned
(A-rerge for Pariod Shtv)                                                                                                                             1975-76     1977-82
A.vcgs- ICOR (BEsed en Fixed Ivasmtent)                  3.17       3.77       3,36
Inport Elasticity                                         1.16       1.83       1.25                        social Sectora                           33.5         38.2
Marginal Doneatir Savirga Rets                            0.20       0.34       0.24                        Agriculture                              10.2         12.0
Marginal NRtional Savings RNte                            0.14       0.35       0.23                        Id-ustry and Mining                       9-5          9.7
Pover                                     6.5         9.5
Transport aod C-ir.coiti...              20.2        14.0
1ABOR FORCE AND OFJT7UT PER WORKER                            Total Labor Force                                 Other                                    20.1         15.8
Io Milion7s           7I of Total          Gr-th Setr                 Totl Expendituren                       100.0       1OO.D
1966       1973        1964        1973        1964-73
Agriculture                        2.427      2.057         47.3       30.2         -1.9                    F7TIANCING
Industr-                           0.958      1,212         18.7       17.8           2.7
Srvicre                            1.749      3.542         34.0       52.0          8.2                   PFblic Sector Savings                     62.7         68.5
Total                              5.134      6.812        100.0      100.0           3.2                   Esternal Sources                         15.1         24.6
Other                                   22.2          6.9
VPle Added pmr Worker (1976 Prices and Exchange R tes)                 Total Finascing                         100.0       100.0
In US Dollarn          7 of Averae.         Growth Rate
196h       1973        1964        1973        1964--73
Agriculture                          903      1,517         66.4       88.4           5,9
Industry                           1,837      2,552        135.2      148.6           3.7
service                            1.70       1,546        127.3       90070        -1.2
Total1.1                                      1,717        100.       100,0           2.6



ANNEX
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Amounts in millions of US dollars at current prices)
Actual                                         Estimated                       Projac5e
1971         1972         1973         1974         1975           1976          1977         1978         1979          1980         1981         1982
SUtlARY BALANCE OF PAYNEIiTS
Exports (Incl. NFS)                         972        1,205         1.544        1,861        2,137         2.892          3,711        3,720        4.301        4,903         5,687        6,563
IMwrto (Incl. NFS)                        La-          1.232         1.422        2.077        2.002         2,.31          3.165        3.913        4.551        5.262         6.056        6.964
Resource Balance (X-M)                      -313          -27          122         -216          135            574           546         -193         -250          -359         -36i9        -401
Factor Services                             -169         -191         -203         -173         -243           -293          -209         -256         -331          -386         -426         -468
Profits                                  (-71)         (-70)        (-70)        (-55)        (-68)          (-73)        (-100)       (-117)       (-137)       (-164)        (-172)       (-181)
Other                                     (-98)       (-121)       (-133)       (-118)       (-175)         (-220)        (-109)       (-139)       (-194)        (-222)       (-254)       (-287)
Current Tr fer. (Net)                         28           28           26            39           28            71           112          125           138          152          167          184
Balance on Currn      t Accounts                         -190         -55          -350         -80           352                                       443        5-93           -628         -685
Private Direct Investment                    40            17           23           35           35             49            32           39            57           65           74           83
Public M&LT Loans
Diabursaments                             222           354          412          380          383            250           277          U0           601           783          849          941
-Repayvents                                -92           -96         -132         -211         -134          -150           -179        .95           -2.5         -255          -295         -339
Net Disburaseents                         130           258          280          169          249            100            96          285          386           528          554          602
Other M&LT Loans
Disbursments                              145           139           60           50           76            125           -            -            -             -            -            -
-Repkayents                                  79          -84          -58          -58          -87          -168           ---                                                   --
Net Disbursments                           66            55            2           -8          -11          --                           -           -            -             -            -
Capital Transactions n.e.i.                  216           39          -78           63          -98            176           109
Change in Net Reserves                         2         -179         -172           91          -95           -634          -686
(- - Increase)
GRANT AND LOAN CO!KTIES                                                                                                                                                                   Actual
Official Grants & Graet-like                       -             -            -                   -             -          DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                 1971        1972        1973        1974         1975         1976
Public Debt
Public M&LT Loans                                                                                                            Outatanding & Disbursed           1,385.6    1,650.0    1,936.0    2,117.4    2,351.2            2,449.2
IBRD                                       153           74          162            8           88             80          Interest on Public Debt              49.2         57.9        78.5       103.7       113.5         125.4
IDA                                                     -            -            -                           -            Repay-ents on  "                     92.0         95.9       131.9       211.4       134.7         150.0
Other Multilateral                         42            41           29           64          -               62          Total Public Debt Service           141.2        153.8       210.4       315.1       248.2         275.4
Governments                                110          114           67           55            65           132          Other Debt Service (Net)             133.1       155.1       126.6       118.6       108.0         160.0
Suppliers                                   35           37           31           45            74            44          Total Debt Service (Net)            274.3        308.9       337.0       433.7        356.2        435.4
Private Banks                               38           84          190           58          163            170
Bonds                                     -             -             45          -            -              -          Burden on Export Earnings (7)
Public Loans n.e.i.                        -              8            1            4             1           -
Total Public M&LT Loans                      378          358          525           234          391           488           Public Debt Service                  14.5        12.7        13.6         16.9        11.6          9.5
Total Debt Service                   28.2        25.6        21.8         23.3        16.7          15.1
Total Debt Service Plus
Foreign Invest. Income             35.3        31.6        26.5         26.6        19.9         17.6
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                         Outstanding on 12/31/76
(Repayable in Foreign Currency)         Disbursed only             Percent                                                   Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                                  671.6                  27.4
IDA                                          22.3                   0.9                                                      Interest as % Prior Year W&D           3.9         4.2         4.8          5,3         5.4           5.3
Other Multilateral                          158.4                   6.5                                                      Amortisation as % Prior Year
Governments                                 935.6                  38.2                                                         DD&D                                7.4         6.9          8.0        10.9         6.4           6.4
Suppliers                                   183.4                   7.5
Private Banks                               395.2                  16.1                                                    IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed             390.8       453.4       504.5        561.7       633.5         671.6
Bonds                                        50.4                   2.1                                                    IBRD as 7. Public Debt O&D              28.2        27.5         26.1        26.5        26.9          27.4
Public Debts n.e.i.                          32.3                   1.3                                                    IBRD as %   "       "   Service         29.4        30.9        28.9         23.6        32.3          25.8
Total Public M&LT Loans                  2,449.2                  100.0                                                    IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed               19.4        20.9        23.0         22.8        22.5          22.3
IDA as 7 Public Debt O&D                1.4         1.3          1.2         1.1         1.0           0.9
IDA as %    *    "   Service            0.2         0.3          0.2         -           0.2           0.1



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of November 30, 1977)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                             Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                                700.8    23.5 /1  --
575     1968  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                18.0              .0 /4
680     1970  Colombia                          Roads             32.0             3.9
681     1970  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                52.3              .2
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                       Water Supply        2.0              .3
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply       88.0            21.7
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation         2.2             1.5
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       9.1             3.6
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                56.0            18.0
903     1973  Banco de la Republica             Industry          60.0             4.8
920     1973  Colombia                          Education         21.2            12.8
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales          Railways          25.0             1.1
971     1974  Colombia                          Pre-Investment
Studies          8.0             6.6
1071    1975  Banco de la Republica             Industry           5.5              .5
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0            21.7
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones             Communications   15.0              4.2
1118    1975  Colombia                         Rural Settlement 19.5              14.4
1163    1975  Colombia                         Agriculture        21.0            20.2
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica            DFC                80.0            56.2
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.        52.0            52.0
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr. 64.0             64.0
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de               Communications   60.0             60.0
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica             Industry          15.0            15.0 /2
1471    1977  Colombia                         Highways           90.0            90.0
1487    1978  Colombia                         Nutrition          25.0            25.0 /3
TOTAL                                           1,548.6    23.5
Of which has been repaid                          340.0      1.3
Total now outstanding                           1,208.6    22.2
Amount sold                         48.8
Of whicb has been repaid            19.3           29.5
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                   179.1    22.2
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                                 497.7
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.
/3   Signed on November 10, 1977.
A    US$1,304.19 remained undisbursed at November 30, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1977)
Type of         Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                   Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.          Fiber-board      0.50       -       0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.98   0.08        2.06
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.         Metal cans       0.70       -      0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                    Home furniture  0.08   0.09         0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.         Electrical
equipment     0.50       -       0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera            Development
Colombiana                        financing         -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera            Development         -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de            Textiles         1.98   0.15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de         Development
Caldas                            financing         -   0.81       0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging       -   1.27        1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de            Warehousing      1.00       -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                Livestock        1.00   0.58        1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.            Textiles         5.00   2.61       7.61
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism             -   0.01       0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del        Development         -   0.45       0.45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del        Development         -   0.43       0.43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism          0.23   0.11       0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism          0.80   0.25        1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing             -   0.46       0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.             Cement           1.50       -      1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement           3.60       -      3.60
1976       Las Brisas                        Mining           6.00       -      6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.           Utilities        13.00   2.00      15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material       2.43      -       2.43
Total Gross Commitments                           40.30  13.36      53.66
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            19.89   5.63     25.52
Total commitments now held by IFC                 20.41   7.73      28.14
Total undisbursed                                 21.33   0.74      22.07



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1978
The largest component of the project, the paving program, has
experienced considerable cost increases and delays. As of this writing, seven
sections in the program are still under construction and about 200 km still to
be paved. Project completion is now expected for 1979. The other components
of the project were completed with much less delay. The Ministry of Public
Works has taken several steps to hasten project execution and strengthen the
performance of contractors.
2.   Ln No. 681 Chivor Hydroelectric Power; US$52.3 million, June 1970.
Effective date: September 1, 1970
Closing date:    Original - June 30, 1977
Current - June 30, 1978
The project was completed and commercially operational in mid-1977,
two years behind schedule, with a cost overrun of about US$86 million (65%).
The delay is mainly attributable to geological problems encountered during
construction of the dam and tunnel. The cost overruns resulted from these
geological problems, from higher than anticipated bids, and local and foreign
inflation.
3.  Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - March 1, 1977
As of June 30, 1977, about 85% of the loan amount was disbursed.
The Bank is now awaiting detailed proposals from the company as to the
use of about US$300,000 still undisbursed.
4.   Ln No. 740 Telecommunications II; US$15 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    June 30, 1977
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been signed; technical and
financial consultants have been retained. As a result of initial delays in the
procurement of project equipment, some of the project's works will be completed
18 months behind original schedule. The loan is almost fully disbursement.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
5.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    June 30, 1978
Disbursements up to November 30, 1977, amounted to 75% of this loan.
Slow progress in the construction of the vital Palacio - Rio Blanco Tunnel is
the main reason for the project's delay; the original contractor was replaced
by another firm which is performing satisfactorily.
6.   Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    March 31, 1978
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million were cancelled
in February 1977. Work is continuing on additional feeder roads, tertiary
canal drains, waterfronts, land clearing, subsoiling and leveling. A second
contractor has defaulted and work on the main drainage canal has temporarily
stopped, though a new contract is expected to be signed soon. Settlement of
farmers within the project areas and the provision of technical assistance
and farm credit have been making inadequate progress. The Government is
carrying out a detailed review of the project in order to find a solution
to these problems.
7.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1978
As of November 30, 1977, about 60% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but progress has
since improved.
8.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    December 31, 1979
The progress of the work is generally satisfactory except for
delays in the resettlement of El Penol and Guatape villages because of the
villagers' reluctance to move into the new cities. This problem is now re-
solved and filling of the Santa Rita reservoir will be started by mid-1978,
three years behind schedule. The revised project cost is substantially above
appraisal esti*ate, mainly occasioned by higher cost of the works at
El Penol and Guatape. The Borrower experienced serious financial problems but
recently has adopted substantial tariff increases.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
9.   Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, May 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    June 30, 1978
The loan is almost fully committed. Disbursements are expected to
be completed within the next few months.
tO. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 1973.
Effective date: January 10, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 30, 1979
The execution of the project had been suspended in mid-1975 pending
redefinition of sector priorities by the Government. Recently, project execu-
tion has resumed after the Bank agreed to reallocate part of the loan to finance
rural primary schools instead of rural secondary schools as originally proposed.
As the number of primary school graduates increase, the primary schools will
gradually become secondary school centers.
11. Ln No. 926 Sixth Railway Project; US$25 million, August 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1976
current - June 30, 1978
Declines in freight traffic in 1975 and the first six months of
1976 (because of an economic slowdown and lower imports), combined with steep
cost increases, resulted in a deterioration of the railway's financial situa-
tion. Since then, the financial position of the railway has been improving as
a consequence of sharp increases of ton-km of freight traffic, and freight
tariff hikes of about 19% in 1976 and 50% in 1977. Improvements have been
registered in other areas although locomotive availability is severely con-
strained largely because of manufacturer defects in over 40% of 88 relatively
new locomotives. Efforts are underway to resolve this problem but early
resolution is not anticipated. Project works are progressing are a substantial
portion has been completed.
12. Ln No. 971 Preinvestment Studies Project; US$8 million, March 1974.
Effective date: June 27, 1974
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
Commitments are proceeding at a satisfactory rate. The Bank has
approved 26 sub-projects.
13. Ln No. 1071 Small-Scale Industry; US$5.5 million, January 1975.
Effective date: May 20, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1978
A change of management in Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP),
the beneficiary institution, delayed the initiation of the project. Commit-
ments are now moving well and progress is satisfactory. The Bank agreed to
release the second tranche in view of CFP's satisfactory performance. The
loan - is-atot --f utlr-cmuitted.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
14. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans eff-,tive.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976.
After a slow start, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in
most cities.
15. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975 -
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily. US$8.9 million has been disbursed.
16.  Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June i97.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    October 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Projection execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have been
completed). School construction, however, is behind schedule, while the
credit program is proceeding well.
17. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 1975.
Effective date: March 30, 1976
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule.
18. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 1976.
Effective date: September 1, 1976
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
The loan is proceeding satisfactorily and will be fully committed
during the first quarter of 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
19. Lu No. 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 1977.
Effective date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Works are proceeding as scheduled.
20. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February
1977.
Effective date: September 6, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981.
The loan is being committed faster than anticipated. Withdrawal
applications for US$3.1 million equivalent have recently been received.
21.  Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$60 million, July 1977.
Effective date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
Works are proceeding as schedule.
22. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 1977. Not yet effective.
23. Lu. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 1977.
Effective date: November 28, 1977
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Rehabilitation Program is underway, about three months behind
schedule. Stabilization works are being carried out, with work totalling
US$35.4 million completed; conditions for disbursement of loan funds for
this program are expected to be fulfilled shortly. Implementation of the
maintenance program is in process, about six months behind schedule. Prepara-
tion of studies is proceeding satisfactorily.
24. Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
September 1977. Not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
SECOND CALI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:          18 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:          EMCALI
(c)  First presentation to Bank:             April of 1976
(d)  First mission to review project:        May of 1976
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:         October of 1976
(f)  Completion of negotiations:             December 19, 1977
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:          May 31, 1978
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
In view of the experience gained by EMCALI with the first project,
no special implementation actions are required.
Section III: Special Conditions
The following special assurances have been obtained:
(a) EMCALI will make investments in the Yumbo Subproject only
after reaching an agreement satisfactory to the Bank with
the Municipality of Yumbo on the terms and conditions under
which EMCALI will take over the operation and maintenance
of Yumbo's water supply system; and that said agreement will
provide that new industries in Yumbo will be required to
connect to the system (para. 45);
(b) EMCALI will prepare, by June 30, 1978, a program to improve
its management information, budgetary and internal control
systems, strengthen the coordination of its administration
and operation units, and promptly thereafter to carry out such
program with the assistance of consultants to the extent such
assistance is required in the opinion of the Bank (para. 48);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(c) EMCALI will employ engineering consultants to prepare the
detailed designs for the project and to assist it in the
supervision of construction and in carrying out the studies
of future sewage treatment requirements to the extent such
assistance is required in the opinion of the Bank (para. 49));
(d)  EMCALI's rates for water and sewerage and for power services
will continue to be increased monthly, automatically, at the
current rates of increase, through the end of 1981 and mid-1979
respectively (para. 51);
(e)  E14CALI will fully implement its property reassessment program
by June 30, 1979 (para. 52);
(f) EMCALI will charge and collect, for certain sewerage works
included in the project, as valorizacion during the 1978-1984
period, a proportion agreed with the Bank of the cost of such
works (para. 53);
(g)  EXCALI will obtain annually, starting in 1978, operating
revenues sufficient to achieve a financial rate of return of
not less than 3% in the water and sewerage division, increas-
ing to 4% in 1982, 4.5% in 1983, and 5% thereafter, 8% in
the power division, and 5.5% increasing to 8% in 1979 and
thereafter in the telephone division, of the revalued cost
less accumulated depreciation of fixed assets in service of
each division (para. 55);
(h)  For purposes of calculating the rate of return, EMCALI's
fixed assets will continue to be revalued in accordance
with methods satisfactory to the Bank (para. 55);
(i) EMCALI's investment through any of its division, in excess of
those included in the financing plan, will not exceed, without
the Bank's concurrence, and until completion of the project,
the equivalent of US$1 million in any year (para. 56);
(j) EMCALI will not incur long-term debt without the Bank's
concurrence, unless the projected net income before interest
and depreciation in respect of the division for the benefit
of which the debt is to be incurred (excluding income
derived from valorizacion) is at least 1.3 times its maximum
debt service in respect of such division (para. 56); and



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(k) EMCALI will transfer funds generated by any of its divisions
to another of its divisions only if the funds to be transferred
are in excess of those required for the operations, debt
service, and investments of the division originating the funds,
and it will treat such transfers made after June 30, 1977,
as loans from one division to the other, on commercial terms
(para. 57).
Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be that
EMCALI make appropriate arrangements to obtain loans in the amount of
Col$600 million, and that all action necessary to enable EMCALI to
obtain in 1978 the agreed rate of return on its telephone division be taken
(paras. 54 and 55).
A condition of disbursements for each sub-project in respect of
which valorizacion would be collected would be that the Bank receives satis-
factory evidence that all necessary authorizations and approvals required to
charge and collect valorizacion in respect of such works shall have been
obtained (para. 53).



IBRD-3638R I
OCTOBER 1976
795'                 79?                   74,                  7Ze
A                 A N T                                                                                          SOCFA     VUTH AMERC
rr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
Co,SNRUS   S io, M
I0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
ATLA T 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h intte N* oAis0?d o
cartage ~ ~   ~     9?MVGVOS                                              
W.1d Asik Wii i"Iislk-vo
41                    I'~     NV                                        N   E   Z   U   E   L  A
-v ~~~  /  CORDOBA                         NADE
Ni                        0YACA
II U IL A ,N.                                     GU~~~~~~ I    HAIND
/       'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
0c.1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
COLOMBIA                                                                                2~~~HU  LA 
CNHJU EN A 00geCeA
40                                                                                      /    2~~~~~~~~~~ A0U       
46~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(5  50  JON. 55(5~~~~~ M'0-0                                 
COLOMIA                                                                                             c
Tr        795~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                            e



