CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUNBER 1523 CO
Loan Agreement
(Second Call Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MRIPRSAS MUNICIPALES DE CALI
Dated June 20, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1523 CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and EMPRESAS MUNICIPALES DE CALI (hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
Section 11.03 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 11.03, Action on behalf of the Borrower or
Guarantor. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed,
pursuant to the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement,
on behalf of the Borrower or the Guarantor, may be taken
or executed by the representative of the Borrower or the
Guarantor designated in the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee
Agreement for the purposes of this Section or any person
thereunto authorized in writing by him. Any modification or
amplification of the provisions of the Loan Agreement or
the Guarantee Agreement may be agreed to on behalf of the
Borrower or the Guarantor by written instrument executed on
behalf of the Borrower or the Guarantor by the representative
so designated or any person thereunto authorized in writing
by him; provided that such modification or amplification is
reasonable in the circumstances and will not substantially
increase the obligations of the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement or of the Guarantor under the Guarantee Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿(a) "Estatutos" means the estatutos set forth in Acuerdo N050
of 1961, as amended as of the date of this Agreement, of the
Concejo Municipal de Cali, as further amended from time to time,
under which the Borrower was established and operates;
(b) "Water Supply and Sewerage Department" means the water
supply and sewerage department: of the Borrower;
(c) "Water Supply Assets" 'means all water treatment plants
and witer distribution network, and related facilities and assets
assigned to the Water Supply and Sewerage Department;
(d) "Sewerage Assets" means all the sewage and stormwater
drainage installations, and related facilities and assets assigned
to the Water Supply and Sewerage Department;
(e) "Power Department" means the energy department of
the Borrower;
(f) "Power Assets" means all electric power generating
plants, substations, transmission lines and related facilities
and assets assigned to the Power Department;
(g) "Telephone Department" means the telephone department of
the Borrower;
(h) "Telephone Assets" means all telephone transmission
lines and installations and related facilities and assets assigned
to the Telephone Department;
(i) "Department" means any of the departments of the Bor-
rower referred to in paragraphs (b), (e) and (g) hereof;
(j) "First Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for
Loan No. 682-CO (Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project) of
June 4, 1970 between the Bank and the Borrower, and "First Guaran-
tee Agreement" means the guarantee agreement for Loan No. 682-CO
of even date between the Guarantor and the Bank;
(k) "Additional Financing" means the funds made or to be
made available to the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
the Loan Agreement and Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement;
(1) "Valorizaci6n" means any taxes, levies or contribu-
tions imposed on beneficiaries of public works for the recovery


﻿-3-
from such beneficiaries of all or part of the investment costs of
such works; and
(a)  "pesos" and "Col.$" mean pesos in currency of the
Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen mil-
lion eight hundred thousand dollarp ($13,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of
interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semiannual interest payment dates speci-
fied in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself
the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and other
charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set
forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04, The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.


﻿4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per apnum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45X) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Executit, of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
substantially in accordance with an implementation schedule agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank, with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, financial
and public utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, factlities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall obtain a loan in the
amount of three hundred million pesos (Col $300,000,000) on the
terms and conditions, including a schedule of disbursements,
agreed with the Bank, to be financed out of the proceeds of Fondo
Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano of Banco Central Hipotecario.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, to the extent that it shall
be required in the opinion of the Bank, employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank to assist the Borrower in: (i)
the preparation of the detailed design of Parts A and B of the
Project and in the supervision of the carrying out of said Parts
A and B of the Project; (ii) the carrying out of the studies
referred to in Part C (1) of the Project; and (iii) the carrying
out of the program referred to in Part C (2) of the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement sched-
ules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
reqvest.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) prepare quarterly progress
reports on the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) furnish to
the Bank such reports promptly after their completion.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
the Borrower, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from


﻿-6-
it, the performance by the Bank and the Borrower of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
the Project and the operation of the facilities included in
it.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations
of the Borrover
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manag. its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations in accordance with appropriate
business, financial and public utility practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
adequate, experienced and competent staff.
(b) The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable oppor-
tunity to comment on any proposed reorganization of the Borrower
which may affect adversely the operations or financial condition
of the Borrower or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary in the conduct of its business.
(b) The Borrower shall take all action, including the
provision of funds and resources, to ensure that its facilities,
equipment and property are adequately operated, maintained,
renewed and repaired.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets if by such sale, lease, transfer or disposi-
tion, the efficient operation of its business and undertaking,
including the Project, might be adversely affected in the opinion
of the Bank, unless the Borrower shall first pay, or make adequate
provision satisfactory to the Bank for repayment of, all of the
Loan which shall then be outstanding and unpaid.


﻿Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insuirers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.OL. The Borrower shall operate each of its Depart-
ments separately and shall for the assets, revenues and expen-
ditures of each of its Departments maintain separate records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition
of each such Department.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements, including cash flow statements)
of each of its Departments for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
such financial statements lor such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b)  The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on
any of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost
to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created
on any assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the
Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien


﻿-8-
satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, how-
ever, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of pur-
chase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase
price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Guarantor, the Bank and
the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, through
December 31, 1981, increase the tariffs for its water supply
and sewerage services as provided in Resoluci6n No. 056 dated
June 17, 1975, of the Junta Nacional de Tarifas de Servicios
Pfiblicos del Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n of the Guar-
antor, and in Resoluci6n No. 3434, dated June 30, 1975 of -he
Borrower.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall, by June 30, 1979,
finalize the implementation of its program for collecting tariffs
for its water supply and sewerage services on the basis of the
most recent assessment of property values in the Municipality of
Cali in order to enable the Borrower to generate, by December 31,
1981, such additional revenues from its water supply and sewerage
services as agreed with the Bank.
Section 5.05. Except as the Guarantor, the Bank and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree:
(a) Notwithstanding the provisions in Section 5.04 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall establish and maintain as from
January 1, 1978:
(i) tariffs for the services provided by its Water
Supply and Sewerage Department which will generate
an annpual return at a rate of at least three per
cent (3%) in each of the years 1978 through 1981,
four per cent (4%) in the year 1982, four and
one-half per cent (4.5%) in the year 1983 and five
per cent (5%) in the year 1984 and thereafter, of
the average net current value of its fixed Water
Supply Assets and Sewerage Assets (excluding storm
water drainage installations) in operation;


﻿-9-
(ii) tariffs for the services provided by its Power
Department which will generate an annual return
at a rate of at least eight per cent (8%) of the
average net current value of its fixed Power Assets
in operation; the required adjustment in tariffs to
continue to be made periodically by the Borrower;
and
(iii) tariffs for the services provided by its Telephone
Department which will generate an annual return at
a rate of at least five and one-half per cent
(5.5%) in the year 1978, increasing to a rate of at
least eight per cent (8%) in the year 1979 and
thereafter, of the average net current value of its
fixed Telephone Assets in operation.
Such rates of return shall be calculated in accordance with the
method outlined in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall, in each calendar semester, review
the adequacy of its tariffs to produce the annual returns required
under paragraph (a) above and shall furnish to the Bank the
results of such review.
(c) If any such review shall show that the Borrower will
not earn any of the annual returns required under paragraph (a)
above in the course of the calendar year in which such review is
made, the Borrower shall adjust its tariffs accordingly, and the
adjusted tariffs shall be brought into effect not later than on
the first month of the semester following the semester in which
such review is made.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt unless the net revenues earned
on the assets of the Department benefitting from such debt for the
fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-
month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever amount is
the greater, shall be not less than 1.3 times the maximum debt
service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt,
including the debt proposed to be incurred, in the benefit of such
Department.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" shall mean all debt of the Bor-
rower including debt for the service of which the


﻿- 10 -
Borrower is responsible, maturing by its terms
more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under
a contract, loan agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment, on the date and to the extent
the amount of the loan is drawn down and outstand-
ing pursuant to such contract, agreement or instru-
ment; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(iii) The term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues
from all sources (excluding revenues generated by
Valorizaci6n), adjusted to take account of the
Borrower's tariffs in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt even though they were not in
effect during the fiscal year or twelve-month
period to which such revenues relate, less all
operating and administrative expenses and provision
for taxes, if any, but before provision covering
depreciation, interest and other charges on debt.
(iv) The term "debt service requirement" shall mean the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt.
(v) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency
such valuation shall be made on the basis of
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valua-
tion, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt.
Section 5.07. (a) Until the Project shall have been com-
pleted, the Borrower shall: (i) inform the Bank on any proposal of
the Borrower to make any capital expenditure through any of its
Departments if the aggregate of such proposed capital expenditure
and all such other capital expenditures made or to be made in any


﻿- 11 -
one fiscal year through such Department exceed or will exceed the
equivalent of one million dollars ($1,000,000); and (ii) agree
with the Bank on any such capital expenditure before committing
itself to it; provided, however, that the preceding provisions
shall not apply to the capital expenditures agreed upon with
the Bank as of the date of this Agreement.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph (a) above,
the Borrower shall not incur in any expenditure under Part A (4)
and (5) of the Project until it has entered into an agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, with the Municipality of Yumbo for
defining the procedures under which such network will be operated
and maintained, including provisions requiring the connection to
it of all new industrial consumers under the jurisdiction of the
Municipality of Yumbo.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall allocate all funds generated
by any of its Departments exclusively to such Department and shall
not transfer such funds, or any portion thereof, to any of its
other Departments unless the funds proposed to be transferred are
in excess of those required for the operations, debt service and
investments of the Department originating the funds; provided,
however, that any such transfer made or to be made after June 30,
1977 shall be treated as a loan from one Department to the other,
on commercial terms and conditions.
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall charge and collect, during
the period January 1, 1978 through December 31, 1984, Valorizaci6n
from beneficiaries of works included in Part B of the Project in
an amount of not less than the proportion of the cost thereof
agreed with the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Amendment of the
First Loan Agreement
Section 6.01. The First Loan Agreement is hereby amended by:
(a) the deletion of the text of paragraph (c) of Section
5.02 and the substitution therefor of the text of Sections 5.01
and 5.02 of this Agreement;


﻿- 12 -
(b) the deletion of the text of Section 5.08 and the sub-
stitution therefor of the text of Section 5.06 of this Agreement;
and
(c) the deletion of the text of Section 5.12 and the sub-
stitution therefor of the text of Sections 5.04 and 5.05 of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that the Estatutos or any
provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated
so as to affect adversely the operations or financial condition of
the Borrower or the performance by the Borrower of its obligations
under the Loan Agreement.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, the event specified in Section
7.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to -he 'Forrower.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
(a) Arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, have been
made to provide the Borrower with the Additional Financing;
and
(b) All steps have been taken, including the approval of the
appropriate Resoluciones by the Borrower's Board of Directors and


﻿- 13 -
by the Junta Nacional de Tarifas del Departamento de Planeaci6n
of the Guarantor, to enable the Borrower to increase its tariffs
for telephone services during the year 1978 so as to obtain the
annual rate of return for the year 1978 provided for in Section
5.05 (a) (iii) of this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The date September 20, 1978, is hereby spec-
ified for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Empresas Municipales de Cali
Centro Administrativo Municipal
Apartado NO 18
Cali
Colombia
Cable address:                       Telex:
EMCALI                              055606 EMDC-CO
Cali


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESAS MUNICIPALES DE CALI
By /s/ Jaime Arizabaleta
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Materials and               5,500,000
equipment
(a, imported                                100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) locally                                 25% of the ex-
manufactured                            factory costs
(2) Civil works                 2,200,000        25%
(3) Consultants'                  900,000        100% of foreign
services                                    expenditures or
40%
(4) Interest and other          2,400,000        Amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
November 14, 1981
(5) Unallocated                 2,800,000
TOTAL      13,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.


﻿- 16 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for (i)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $200,000 may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of
payments made for expenditures for consultants' services before
that date but after June 30, 1977; and (ii) expenditures for any
works included in the Project in respect of which Valorizaci6n
must be collected in accordance with Section 5.09 of this Agree-
ment, until there has been furnished to the Bank evidence,
satisfactory to the Bank, that all legal and administrative
authorizations and approvals required by the Borrower to charge
and collect Valorizaci6n in respect of such works have been
obtained by the Borrower.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may: (i) at the request of the Borrower,
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, by notice to the
Borrower, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the


﻿- 17 -
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the procecIs of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or elimiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Water Supply
1.   Construction of a water storage tank of about 7,500
cubic meters in the zone of Ciudad Jardin in the city of
Cali;
2.   Construction of a pumping station in the zone of La
Normal in the city of Cali to convey treated water from the
low level distribution network to the high level distribution
network;
3.   Installation of water distribution networks and about
20,000 house connections including the purchase of materials
and water meters therefor, in the low income neighborhoods of
the city of Cali;
4.   Construction of about 12 kilometers of water transmis-
sion pipeline to transport water from the city of Cali to the
village of Yumbo, including its interconnection with the
existing water distribution network of the Municipality of
Yumbo; and construction of additional service pipes to
connect industrial consumers along the route;
5.   In the village of Yumbo, carrying out of a program
for the rehabilitation and reinforcement of the existing
water distribution system, detection of leaks and making of
repairs, pitotmetric investigations and installation of house
water meters; and
6.   Acquisition and utilization of equipment for the main-
tenance of the Water Supply Assets.
Part B:   Sewerage
1.   Construction and installation of about 3.0 kilometers
of sewage collector for receiving sewage from the zone of
Ciudad Jardin in the city of Cali;


﻿- 19 -
2.   Construction and installation of about 2.0 kilometers
of sewage collector for receiving sewage from the zone of
Ciudad Universitaria in the city of Cali;
3*   Construction and installation of about 5.5 kilometers
of main sewage interceptor for receiving sewage from the
collectors referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 above, as well
as from adjacent zones in the southern and eastern parts of
the city of Cali, and convey it by gravity into a sewage
pumping station;
4.   Construction of pumping facilities with an initial
capacity of about 2.7 cubic meters per second, and construc-
tion and installation of about 2 kilometers of pressure
pipeline to convey sewage from the pumping station to a point
about 300 meters downstream from two existing water treatment
plants;
5.   Construction and installation of about 1.2 kilometers
of secondary sewage collector;
6.   Rehabilitation of two regulatory stormwater drainage
lagoons;
7.   Rehabilitation of old sewers;
8.   Construction of sewerage laterals and trunk lines
in various low income neighborhoods in the city of Cali;
9.   Rehabilitation of about 8.0 kilometers of the Canal Sur
stormwater drainage canal; rehabilitation and reinforcement
of the confluence of the Ferrocarril, San Fernando and Canal
Sur storm drainage canals; and separation of stormwater
drainage between gravity discharge and pumping discharge;
10. Construction of about 22 kilometers of stormwater
drainage network in various low income neighborhoods in the
city of Cali;
11. Excavation and construction of 2.5 kilometers of con-
crete-lined extension to the existing Nipoles Canal, and
construction of confluences to feeder lines; and
12. Acquisition and utilization of equipment for the main-
tenance of the Sewerage Assets.


﻿- 20 -
Part C:   Studies
1.   Carrying out of sewage and treatment studies to estab-
lish the degree and type of treatment required to reduce the
contamination of the Cauca River to an acceptable level, and
preparation of preliminary designs for sewage treatment
facilities; and
2.   Preparation by June 30, 1978 and carrying out promptly
thereafter of a program to: (a) improve the Borrower's man-
agement information and budgeting and internal auditing
procedures; and (b) strengthen the coordination of the
administration and operation of the Borrower's Departments.
Part D:   Reforestation
Purchase and planting of about one million trees in the Cali,
Caflaveralejo, Melfndez and Pance River basins.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 1982
through   May 15, 1994                          530,000
On November 15, 1994                                 550,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1.30%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                          2.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   4.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                   6.55%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                   7.45%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the proposed date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for Lhe
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph I above.
3.   With respect to any contract for civil works to be procured
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 above, bidders
shall be required to prequalify.
4.   For bidding purposes, goods and civil works to be procured
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 above, shall be
grouped into lots to be tendered under separate bids, in such a
manner as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, prior
to issuing the invitation to bid.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
less than $300,000 may be procured in accordance with the Guar-
antor's competitive bidding procedures, provided the aggregate cost
of such contracts shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.


﻿- 24 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with Part B hereof: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Colombia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and Ptages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Colombia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Colombia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Colombia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then


﻿- 25 -
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compari-
son, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for! the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, befor,e
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the pro-
cedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts referred to in Part A of this
Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 26 -
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to-the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in Part A of this
Schedule to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and not
governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 5
Method for Calculating
Rates of Return
1.    The annual returns specified in Section 5.05 of this Loan
Agreement will be calculated, for each of the water supply and
sewerage, the power and the telephone services, in each calendar
semester in respect of the calendar year in which such review is
made and the preceding calendar year, by using as the denominator
the average between the net current values of the respective fixed
assets in service at the beginning and at the end of each such
calendar year and as numerator the operating income generated by
the respective service over the same year. The assets used as
denominator shall not include: (i) assets transferred to the
Borrower by customers other than the Municipality of Cali; and
(ii) other assets but only to the extent that the construction or
installation costs thereof have been recovered through the collec-
tion of Valorizaci6n.
In the calculation of the annual return for the water supply
and sewerage services, the water treatment plant at Puerto
Mallarino shall be taken into account only in the proportion that
its installed capacity was actually used in the pertinent calendar
year.
2.   Any shortfall in the required annual returns for the calendar
year preceding the calendar year in which the calculations are to
be made shall be carried forward and subtracted from the numerator
used for the last mentioned calendar year.
3.   "Operating income" shall be the difference between all
revenues generated by the service in question (which does not
include Valorizaci6n), and all administrative and operating
costs relating thereto, including maintenance, adequate provision
for straight-line depreciation on the average gross value of fixed
assets in service, all contributions to the Municipality of Cali
and the cost of the services provided to said Municipality free of
charge, but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
4*   The net current value of fixed assets in service shall at any
given date be their gross value less accumulated depreciation to
such date, as revalued and depreciated in accordance with para-
graphs 5 and 6 below.


﻿- 28 -
5.   Until another method, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
maintenance of value of assets of public utilities shall have
been made applicable to the Borrower, the gross value of the
Borrower's fixed assets in service shall be revalued annually
in accordance with the corresponding variations in the Indice
nacional de precios al consumidor - Obreros - published by the
Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica of the
Guarantor, or a similar index approved by the Bank, to the last
month preceding the semester in which the calculation is to be
made.
6.   Depreciation shall be charged on a straight-line basis over
the estimated useful life of the Borrower's fixed assets.


