Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22721
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-34140; SCPD-3414S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$23.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FOR A BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
December 3, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 28 November 2001)
Currency Unit = Colon (c)
338.97 colones = USS 1.00
US$ 1.00 = 0.0029 colones
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEE                       Central America Bank for Economic Integration
(Banco Centro Americano de Integraci6n Econ6mica)
CENADI                     National Center for Didactic Materials
(Centro Nacional de Didactica)
CENE/EDU                   National Center for Education Evaluation
(Centro Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa)
CENIFE                     National Center for School Building
(Centro Nacional de Infraestructura Fisica Educativa)
CEREDI                     Regional Didactic Center
(Centro Nacional de Didactica)
COF                        Cofinancier
(Cofinancieros)
CONASUP                    National Commission for Higher Education
(Comisi6n Nacional de Educaci6n Superior)
CONSUPE                    Higher Council for Education
(Consejo Superior de Educaci6n)
IBRD                       Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(Banco Internacional de Reconstrucci6n y Desarrollo)
ICBILPI                    International Competitive Bidding
(Licitaci6n Publica Internacional)
ICR                        Implementation Completion Report
(Informe de Cierre de Proyecto)
IDB                        Inter-American Development Bank
(Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
IIMEC                      Research Institute for Improvement of Education in Costa Rica
(Instituto de Investigaci6n para el Mejoramiento de la Educaci6n
Costarricense)
MOE                        Ministry of Education
(Ministerio de Educaci6n)
NBF                        Non Bank Financing
NCB/LPN                     National Competitive Bidding
(Licitaci6n Publica Nacional)
PROMECE                    Basic Education Reform Project
(Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n)
RVP                        Regional Vice President
(Vice Presidente Regional)
SDI                         Social Development Indicators
UCR                        University of Costa Rica
(IJniversidad de Costa Rica)
UNA                        National Autonomous University
(Universidad Nacional Aut6noma)
UNED                       National University for Distance Education
(Universidad Nacional de Educacion a Distancia)
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:  William Experton
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Joel Reyes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COSTA RICA
BASIC EDUCATION
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               14
6. Sustainability                                                                   16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 20
9. Partner Comments                                                                21
10. Additional Information                                                         32
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                33
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                36
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                38
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              43
Annex 8. Status of Legal Covenants                                                 46
Annex 9. Project Design Elements                                                   47
Annex 10. Programmed and Achieved Subcomponent Targets                             48
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006938                                      Project Name: CR/BASIC EDUCATION
Team Leader: Joel E. Reyes                               TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 18, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: CR/BASIC EDUCATION                            L/C/TFNumber: CPL-34140;
SCPD-3414S
Country/Department: COSTA RICA                                          Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/11/1988                             Effective: 02/12/1992        02/09/1993
Appraisal:  06/24/1991                               MTR: 08/09/1995           08/15/1995
Approval:  11/12/1991                             Closing: 12/31/1997          09/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION/(MOE)
Other Partners: Public and Private University Teacher Training Programs
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                         Shahid Husam
Country Manager:     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                       Rainer B. Steckhan
Sector Manager:      William Experton                          Kye Woo Lee
Team Leader at ICR:  Joel Reyes                                Nelson Fisher
ICR Primary Author:  Joel Reyes with inputs from
Mario Marcone; Darlyn Meza;
Nelly Wheelock and Lia Alvarez
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
For several decades successive Costa Rican governments have placed very high priority on education.
However, the severe economic crisis which the country faced in the 1980s caused it to lose some ground,
and the Project was designed to arrest and reverse the resulting deterioration of the education system. The
economic crisis and subsequent education budgetary cuts had put at risk the provision of key inputs to
guarantee the quality of teaching and learning in basic education, including mainly (i) curricular
development, (ii) instructional materials, (iii) teacher training, (iv) adequate school infrastructure, and (v)
student evaluations. In addition, the management and planning processes and systems of the Ministry of
Education needed updating, especially in the area of personnel management, financial and budgetary
controls, and monitoring and evaluation. Adding to the need to reverse the deterioration of basic education,
the education system required to start planning education reforrns at the secondary education level.
The Basic Education Project (co-financed by both the World Bank and the Inter-American Development
Bank) was designed and implemented to address the above-mentioned issues in the education sector. It
specifically aimed at:
*   Improving the quality and efficiency of basic education (grades 1-9), particularly in disadvantaged
rural and marginal urban areas, by providing the necessary educational inputs and support services to
raise the level of student achievement and reduce the incidence of repetition and dropout rates;
*   strengthening the Ministry of Education's management and planning capacity in order to efficiently and
equitably administer a decentralized education system; and
*   supporting improvements in secondary education by carrying out an in-depth study of the subsector,
and a pilot in computer-assisted education.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions were made to project objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project comprised three main components:
*   Component (A)--Improve the Quality of Basic Education (83% of original project costs) through:
1. Curriculumn revision (IDB financed);
2. the production and distribution of student textbooks, workbooks, teaching manuals, school
libraries and other educational materials (IDB financed);
3. in-service training for teachers and administrators (WB financed); and
4. improvements in school physical infrastructure and facilities in the country's most
disadvantaged rural and marginal urban regions, including schools damaged by the earthquake
of April 22, 1991 (co-financed by IDB and World Bank)
*   Component (B)--Strengthening of Sector Planning and Management (14% of original project costs) to
improve the Ministry of Education's (MOE's) personnel management, financial and budgetary control,
and education planning through:
1. Institutional strengthening investments in equipment, staff development, and a management
- 2 -



infornation system (IDB financed); and
2. the development of a student achievement testing and evaluation system (WB financed).
*   Component (C)--Improvement in the Quality of Secondary Education (3 % of original project costs)
through:
1. An in-depth study of the present status and needs of secondary education (WB financed); and
2. a two-phase pilot program of computer-assisted education in 20 secondary academic schools,
providing micro-computers, curriculum revision and teacher/school administrator training
(WB financed).
3.4 Revised Components:
The only major change to Project components was the re-dimensioning of the IDB-financed Institutional
Strengthening Subcomponent. The original planned investments focused on strengthening the planning and
management processes for three Departments of the MOE :    Personnel Management, Financial
Management, and Education Statistics and Planning. Since improving the Personnel Management
Department proved to be a priority, albeit it has been a long and complex process, MOE decided with the
approval of the IDB, to postpone planned reforrns for the Financial and Statistics and Planning
Department. The institutional strengthening for these two latter departments was included in the overall
Public Sector Modernization Program carried out independently by the Government.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The overall quality at entry was satisfactory based on: (i) the consistency of project design with
governmental policies (Plan General de Educaci6n, 1990-1994); (ii) the clarity of project objectives and
key performance indicators; analysis of the fiscal impact of the project and the required financing of
recurrent costs before and after the project; (iii) introduction of organization and management change
strategies in the institutional development component of the Project; (iv) the definition of specific strategies
to minimize risks regarding timely availability of counterpart funds and the implementation capacity of the
MOE; and (v) the use of Social Development Indicators (SDI) to identify towns, cities and provinces in
most socio-economic need. The SDI used included school infrastructure availability, education access,
electric consumption, single motherhood, and mortality rates. The impact expected in these poor
communities, during the life of the project, was increased promotion and reduced repetition and drop-out
rates. See Annex 9 for a detailed explanation of each of these project design elements.
One set back in Project design was the lack of a broader institutional capacity assessment to guarantee
Project management readiness for the first year of operations. This broader evaluation would have
included, as is now required in the Bank, an evaluation of the right personnel mix for the PCU;
assessment of existing versus new project-related workload in the MOE; and setting up fully, before
Project launch, a computerized financial management system
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of objectives of the Project is rated Satisfactory based on the evidence of Project
outcomes with respect to:
1. Improved education quality measured by increments in the passing scores in the national
standardized tests in the four core subject areas (Spanish, Mathematics, Science and Social
Studies);
2. Improved school efficiency indicated by reductions in repetition and dropout rates;
-3 -



3. Improved planning and management efficiency by the Ministry of Education shown by reduced
delays in personnel administrative processes and services delivery; and
4. Incorporation of Project-financed needs assessment studies into the country's secondary
education reform planning process and the positive results of the comprehensive evaluation
(both qualitative and quantitative) of the computer-assisted education pilot.
*    Education Quality: Improved National Standardized Test Scores. The 1989 baseline data collected
on learning achievement by subject level and grades in the 20 education regions of Costa Rica (see
Annex 7 of SAR) was compared to the year 2,000 percentage of passing grades in the national tests
scores for the same subjects and grade levels. For example, in 1989, no more than 36% of students in
cycle II (grades 4-6) received a passing grade in Mathematics and Spanish in any of the 20 education
regions; the passing grade rate increased nationwide to 94% in the year 2000. Similar increments were
obtained in other subjects and grade levels. Average passing grades for 1989 and the national averages
for 2000 are shown in Table 1 (note: methodology changes in standardized testing took place between
the 1989 baseline and the 2000 test scores; however, major positive trends in increased percentage of
passing scores can still be strongly inferred by comparing both data bases):
TABLE 1: Percentage of Students with Satisfactory Test Scores
by Subject Area and Grade Level
In 1989 and 2000 (In percentage)
Subject Area and Grade Level          Percentage of            Percentage of
Satisfactory Passing     Satisfactory Passing
Grades                   Grades
(1989)'                  (2000)2
Mathematics
Cycle II (6'h grade)                          35.3                    94.31
Cyde III (9th grade)                          10.2                    49.57
Spanish
Cycle II(6 grade)                             36.4                    99.22
Cycle II[ (9th grade)                          18                     72.33
Science
Cycle II (6T' grade)                          88.1                    98.45
Cycle liI (9th grade)                         26.8                    67.38
Social Studles
Cycle 11 (6'h grade)                          40.7                    96.13
Cvde lIl (9th grade)                          3.8                     69.63
Source: 1989 data from 'La Educaci6n Costarricense en Cifras, 19701989; MEP, 1990;
2000 data from Unidad de Informnitica, Divisi6n de Calidad; MEP, May 17th, 2001.
1 1989 data reported by Provinces (geographic regions): percentage stated refers to the regional Province with the highest percentage
of passing scores.
22000 data reported nationally: percentage stated refers to the highest percentage of passing scores nationwide.
*    School Efficiency: Improved Promotion Rates and Reduced Repetition and Dropout Rates. The
base line data collected during project design on promotion, repetition, and dropout rates nationwide
(see Annex 8 of SAR) was compared to similar data collected for the school year 2000. This
comparison shows that the 1989 promotion rates in Cycle I were 80%, 86% in Cycle II, and only 51%
in Cycle IIl, and that they increased to promotion rates as high as 88.8% for Cycle 1, 91.9% for Cycle
II, and 81.6% for Cycle III in the year 2000. Repetition and dropout rates, in turn, show declining
trends, as shown in table 2, which compares promotion, repetition and dropout rates between the year
1989 and 2000:
-4 -



TABLE 2
School Efficiency Indicators for 1989 and 2009 (in percent)
Efficiency Indlcators           Base Line Year         End of Project Year
(1989)                  (2000)
Promotion Rates
Cyde I (grades 1-3)                           80                     88.8
Grade 1                                       77                     84.6
Cycle II (grades 4-6)                        86                      91.9
Grade 4                                       82                     89A
Cycle III (7-9)                               51                     81.6
Grade 7                                       47                     75.7
Repetition Rates
Primary (grades 1-6)                         12                      8.2
Cycle ill (grades 7-9)                       15                      8.8
Dropout Rates
Primary (grades 1-6)                          2                       4.1
Cyce liI (grades 7-9)                        19                     12.2
Source: 1989 data firom  La Educaci6n Costarricense en Cifras, 1970-1989, MEP, 1990; 2000 data from Unidad
de Informatica, Divisi6n de Control de Calidad, MEP, May 17th, 2001.
Impact on Low Social-Economic Regions Identified by the Project. The Project identified seven
regions in Costa Rica (with combined rural and marginal-urban populations) based on lower than
average SDI. The SDI indicators included availability of school infrastructure, education coverage,
average electrical use, percentage of single mothers, and mortality rates, among others. The Project
guaranteed investments in school infrastructure and educational materials in these seven areas. The
impact indicators in these regions were changes in dropout rates in relation to initial enrollments and
promotion and repetition rates (% that fail and were required to repeat a grade) in relation to final
enrollment rates (the overall number of students that finalize the school cycle).
Impact on Cycle III (grades 7-9) For Regions with Low Socio-Economic Indicators. Comparing the
promotion, repetition and dropout rates of the school year 1992 (before project implementation) with
those from 2000, the following impact conclusions can be noted: (i) 100% of the focalized low SDI
regions increased the retention of students as shown by lower dropout rates during the school year; (ii)
60% of the focalized low SDI regions (Alajuela, Nicoya, Puntarenas, Coto y Guapiles) not only
retained a large percentage of the school population, but were also successful in guaranteeing large
rates of promotion (and thus, less repetition/failure rates); (iii) 40% of the focalized SDI regions
(Puriscal, Nicoya y Cafias), now retain a larger percentage of students throughout the school year, but
were not able to promote them successfully to next school grade.
- 5 -



Table 3
Regions with Low Socio-Economic Development Indicators
Drop Out, Promotion and Repetition Rates Cycle IlIl (in percent)
1992                               2000
Region        Dropout    Promotion    Repetition   Dropout   Promotion    Repetitio
._          _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   n
Puriscal        14.7        69.7         30.3        10.6       63.2        36.8
Alajuela        16.0        57.7         42.3        11.2       72.2        27.8
Nicoya          15.1        61.1         38.9       13.8        57.9        39.1
Caffas          15.5        64.3         35.7        13.2        43         57.0
Puntarenas      18.7        50.8         49.2        10.1       50.9        10.1
Coto            21.7        58.1          42         18.2       65.4        18.2
Guapiles        33.1        53.4         46.6        13.3        61.        13.3
Note: promotion and repetition rates are percentages from final student enrolment (those completing the annual school cycle).
Note: Dropout rates are percentage from initial student enrollment (those enrolled at the beginning of the annual school cycle).
Impact on Cycle I and II(grades 1-6) For Regions with Low Socio-Economic Indicators. The impact
regarding promotion, repetition and dropout rates in the focalized poor regions in grades 1-6 had mixed
results.  With the exception of Nicoya and Alajuela, all other regions reduced their dropout rates.
However, all regions with the exception of Cafias were not able to increase promotion and, thus,
experienced higher repetition rates.
Table 4
Regions with Low Socio-Economic Development Indicators
Drop Out, Promotion and Repetition Rat s Cycle I and 11 (in percent)
1992                                2000
Region       Dropout   Promotion    Repetition   Dropout   Promotion    Repetition
Puriscal       3.8        91.5         8.5         3.5         86.4        13.6
Alaiuela       3.1        92.5          7.5        3.7         87.0        13.0
Nicoya         2.2        87.8         12.2        3.7         83.6        12.4
CaFias         4.8        86.9         13.1        4.2         88.5        11.5
Puntarenas     4.7        86.9         13.1        3.5         86.1        13.9
Coto           6.6        85.7         14.3        5.5         83.5        16.5
Guapiles       5.1        84.3         15.7        6.1         81.5        18.5
Note: promotion and repetition rates are percentages from final student enrolment (those completing the annual school cycle).
Note: Dropout rates are percentage from initial student enrollment (those enrolled at the beginning of the annual school cycle).
It is important to note that the major focalized education investments for these regions were basically
supply side (school infrastructure and educational materials). Demand side interventions-such as
financial support to poor families; social programs for at-risk-youth, street children and single mothers;
and community development programs for hard-to-reach rural areas-were not part of this Project.
General Conclusion on Education Indicators: Overall, the Project was very successful in improving
education indicators nationwide. However, in the areas with lowest socio-economic indicators, the
results were more conservative, as school access was increased and drop-out rates were reduced, but
challenges in the area of promotion and learning continued. In retrospect, for poor and excluded
communities, both supply-based and demand-based education programs must complement each other.
*   Improved Ministry of Education Management and Planning: Impact regarding management and
planning processes is difficult to quantify. Nonetheless, the ICR used as a proxy of success the
reduction of delays in payment of teachers and other personnel administrative actions, and the
- 6 -



institutionalized use of management information systems to monitor both institutional and education
quality processes and outputs. Table 5 presents some quantitative and quality impacts of Project
interventions to strengthen education management and planning.
TABLE 5:
Impact of the Strengthening of Sector Planning and Management Component
Personnel Management: (i) Reduction of delays in payment of teachers from 27% to 3%; (ii) Personnel action
processes reduced from 50 steps to 20; (iii) Reduced response time to telephone and online requests (MOE hotline
and information kiosk).
Management Information System (MIS): (i) Development of MIS to integrate personnel actions, identification of
teaching posts and personnel remuneration and leave; (ii) Connectivity with regional offices for access to teaching
staff personnel files; and (iii) Improved use of online information, action requests, and client friendly technology.
Education Quality Monitoring and Evaluation: (i) Upgraded standardized test scores for diagnosis of I st grade
learning and physical aptitudes, of 3rd and 6th graders in Science and Social Studies, and 9th grade for Spanish,
Social Studies, Mathematics and Science; (ii) On-going implementation of monitoring and evaluation of education
quality and student assessments by the MOE; and (iii) Professional development of MOE's Human Resources
(centrally and regionally) in the area of student evaluation and testing.
Source: Barrantes, Carlos. "Inforrne Acumnulado de Seguimiento del Desempenio Programafico y Financiero del Proyecto al 31
de Diciembre del 2000"; MOE, Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto, March 2001.
*   Needs Assessments for Secondary Education and Computer-Assisted Education Pilot: the
secondary education studies and pilot yield positively contribute to the planning of the secondary
education reform. The success of this development objective was measured in terms of the following
outputs:
Secondary Education Assessments:
1. The secondary education needs assessment studies served as basis for the curricular revisions
for the lower secondary education level.
2. The studies provided the rationale to optimize the secondary education study program load
(reducing by 16% of the number of subjects taught).
3. The studies supported the preparation of the IDB-supported Lower Secondary Education
Project.
4. The Ministry of Planning completed a study regarding secondary education: El Desempeiio
Educativo y Las Politicas de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n Secundaria, Serie
de Estudios Especiales N.2, Noviembre 2000.
Computer Assisted Education Pilot
1. Output indicators provided by the University of Montreal's evaluation of the pilot showed
attitudinal and learning impact on participating students.
2. The computer-assisted education pilot was generalized in more than 80% of secondary schools.
- 7 -



3. The computer-assisted education pilot provided lessons useful to develop other education
technology and connectivity programs in the country: Colegio Virtual and Kiosko de la
Informaci6n.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A: Improve the Quality of Basic Education
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
After some delays in execution, this component was successful in strengthening four basic inputs to
improve the quality of teaching and learning: (i) curriculum revisions, (ii) teacher training, (iii) educational
materials, and (iv) adequate school infrastructure. Project investments have reached all basic education
grades (grades 1-9) and guaranteed reforms in the learning content, pedagogical methods, teacher
accreditations at the university level, and education materials, especially for urban poor and rural
multigrade schools.
Analysis by subcomponent:
*   Subcomponent (a) supported the development of the new curriculum for grades 1-9. The basic
education curriculum was adapted to reflect regional and local realities; integrated new subject
areas; applied interactive student-centered methodologies; and provided strategies to monitor
student achievement based on curricular content and learning objectives. Most output targets for
this subcomponent reached or exceeded programmed goals (see Annex 10, Table 1, for a detailed
description of programmed and achieved subcomponent targets).
This subcomponent was financed by IDB. The curriculum was revised for all three basic education cycles
(grades 1-9). It included an integrated approach to the study of ecology, family health and human
relationships, public safety and cultural values. These themes were integrated as a transversal curriculum
across the four core subjects (Spanish, Mathematics, Science, and Social Sciences). In addition to strategies
to include regional and local realities (rural, urban, environmental, ethnic, etc.) within course content and
teaching methodologies, a countrywide curricular framework promoted national identity across the diverse
regions of the country. For multigrade schools ("one-teacher schools"), an integrated multi-subject
approach was developed for Cycle I (grades 1-3) and a subject-based curricula in the next two cycles
(grades 4-9). In terms of pedagogical models, the Project supported the introduction of participatory,
student- centered teaching and learning methodologies. Demonstrative schools provided a strategy for
classroom observations to assess impact on the teaching and leaming process of the new curricular
revisions. The implementation of this component was completed in 1997.
*   Subcomponent (b) was successful in supporting the development of three types of educational
materials: (i) textbooks, workbooks and teacher manuals; (ii) supplementary materials such as
library books, posters, maps, and science equipment; and (iii) distance education materials. As a
result, didactic materials are available in the majority of basic education schools, including
materials for multigrade teachers working in poor rural and dispersed communities. Despite delays
in design, procurement, and distribution of the textbook series "Hacia el Siglo XXI", most of the
output targets were reached and exceeded originally planned goals (see Annex 10, Table 2, for a
detailed description of programmed and achieved subcomponent targets).
This subcomponent was financed by IDB. Towards the end of 1997, the delivery of educational printed
materials (one set for each core subject) was completed in all initially targeted schools. First, the MOE
distributed textbooks, teachers guides and student workbooks to rural and urban schools with low social
- 8 -



development indexes (including ethnic communities and one-teacher schools). For multigrade schools
(Escuelas Unidocentes: "One Teacher Schools), the set included the delivery of didactic flash cards
especially designed for the multigrade setting. Nonetheless, delays ocurred in the printing of textbook
materials and their distribution in rural areas. Textbook design went through various revisions and
validations and procurement processes were longer than expected. Distribution was to be handled by the
private sector based on school demand; however, books were not delivered to the hard-to-reach rural areas.
During the long extension period, 1998-2000, the Ministry of Education guaranteed distribution to rural
areas and to other public schools not included in the original distributions up to 1997, in addition to
university teacher training programs and libraries nationwide.
0   Subcomponent (c) satisfactorily supported three types of interventions: (i) the university teaching
accreditation for grade 1-6 teachers who only had a secondary education (High School) degree
(called Aspirantes), (ii) the specialization of teachers (called Autorizaci6n para Maestros con
Experiencia) to teach grades 7-9 (lower secondary), and (iii) short in-service teacher training
courses (called Actualizaci6n) in various areas. The Teacher Accreditation and Specialization
programs have been highly successful: most teachers in Costa Rica are now fully accredited at the
university level. In addition, teachers benefited from the teacher training subcomponent have
self-financed the continuation of further university training. Most output targets for this
subcomponent reached or exceeded programmed goals (see Annex 10, Table 3, for a detailed
description of programmed and achieved subcomponent targets).
The university accreditation and the specialization programs were co-implemented by the three main
universities of Costa Rica: Universidad de Costa Rica (UCR), Universidad Nacional Autonoma (UNA),
and Universidad Nacional de Educaci6n a Distancia (UNED). The in-service training programs were aimed
at Teachers, Principals, and School Supervisors. The content of the training included (i) curricular
development in the four basic subjects, (ii) textbook and didactic material use, (iii) bilingual training, (iv)
multigrade teaching, and (v) active and participatory learning methodologies.  The courses were
module-based, with a minimum period of training of 36 hours. The three participating universities (UCR,
UNA, UNED) developed a coordinated teacher training program (objectives, curriculum, programs, and
quality criteria), which is still used in their respective Teacher Colleges. As for the actualization courses,
the MOE managed the initial phase of this training program through a team of 60 ministerial and regional
staff. By 1995 (the year of the mid-term evaluation), the training component goals had been substantially
advanced (75% of physical progress and 70% of planned financial investments). In 1997, the PCU planned
and managed, through its component coordinators, a last phase of this training program. As part of a
sustainability strategy, the MOE has incorporated many of the Project- financed courses as part of a
distance education program organized through a library of videos to which all teachers have access. These
distance education materials also support the Centros Regionales de Aprendizaje-CRA (self-guide teacher
training circles), complementing self-produced didactic materials.
*   Subcomponent (d) was successful, despite serious implementation delays, in activities to improve
the physical infrastructure and facilities in the country's most disadvantaged rural and marginal
urban regions. Through improved planning and design, the subcomponent team increased
efficiency (cost/benefit) in classroom construction. Introducing prefabricated systems reduced
costs by 36% and increased classroom area. During the two-year closing date extension and the
six additional months required to negotiate the award of a large contested contract among
bidders, the subcomponent met or exceeded programmed goals (see Annex 10, Table 4 and Table
5, for a detailed description of programmed and achieved subcomponent targets).
-9-



In 1993, the subcomponent was launched as part of the post-earthquake school reconstruction program.
Prefabricated school models increased quality, seismic resistance, and reduced construction costs.
Nonetheless, after the initial earthquake reconstruction phase, the component progressed slowly until right
after the Bank's rnid-term review in 1995. The mid-term review reassessed school infrastructure demand
based on an up-dated assessment of student enrollment distribution. In some originally targeted areas
enrollment was not as high as originally forecasted, while in other areas (especially marginal urban centers)
enrollment demand was increasing. In addition, the World Bank and IDB coincided with the Government in
their request to revise the infrastructure plan to incorporate one preschool grade in all primary schools,
increasing the demand for classroom expansion. During the second semester of 1996, the economic crisis
in Costa Rica delayed implementation, and delays persisted through 1997 (an election year). The new
government's transition initially also caused implementation delays--given changes in leadership,
management style, and re-organizations within the Ministry of Education.  Once the new MOE
administrative teams settled in their new posts, the Government revitalized the implementation of the
Education Rehabilitation Project, especially of the education infrastructure subcomponent, and requested an
extension period to guarantee achievement of Project Development objectives. By the first quarter of 2000,
the civil works program had advanced substantially. One last stumbling block took place when a large
contract was contested by bidders. The Government managed this process openly and in a participatory
manner, but an additional 6 month extension with approval of the Regional Vice President (RVP) was
required. The subcomponent, and the Project, finally closed on September 30, 2000. Despite the
implementation delays, the project met and surpassed its implementation targets.
Component B: Strengthening of Sector Planning and Management
ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory
This component was very successful in strengthening the planning and management processes and systems
of the Ministry of Education, through the provision of equipment and staff development programs, the
installation of a management information system (MIS), and the institutionalization of a system to evaluate
the quality of basic education through national standardized testing in the four core subject areas (Spanish,
Mathematics, Science and Social Sciences). In addition, the component financed initial studies and
innovative strategies to plan future secondary education reforms and, thus, to expand opportunities to basic
education graduates.
Analysis by subcomponent:
* Subcomponent (a) satisfactorily supported the strengthening of the institutional capacity of the
Ministry of Education, especially for the management of its human resources through provision of
physical materials (computers and other equipment), staff development programs, and an
automated management information system. As a result, MOE services to teachers and other
clients improved in terms of time and availability of information. There was a substantial
reduction of delays in administrative and personnel actions, and a new client orientation and culture
change was put in place both within the Ministry of Education and in its decentralized offices.
This subcomponent was implemented in two phases: (i) the preparing phase, which focused on participatory
organizational and management change processes at the Ministerial level and the redesigning of
administrative procedures, and (ii) the implementation phase, which began to set up the computerized
information management systems.  The institutional strengthening process followed a participatory
approach (involving management and staff). It also re-engineered the complex and inefficient personnel
administration processes and, subsequently, invested in the development of computerized systems. A
multidisciplinary core team including educators, organizational change consultants, process engineers, and
- 10-



an institutional climate psychologist served as facilitators to ensure the involvement of all staff,
guaranteeing ownership of the process and to reduce resistance to change.
The institutional strengthening interventions took place within the Personnel Department, which managed
teaching personnel administrative actions, work placement and rotations, salary payments and
compensations, leave, transfers, cessation of work, etc. The original scope of the subcomponent included
support as well for the Departments of Finance and of Education Statistics. However, this subcomponent
was re-dimensioned after the mid-term evaluation, when the Government decided (with approval of IDB,
the financing institution for this subcomponent) to focus available resources on strengthening only the
Department of Personnel. The reasons for this decision were the following: (i) high economic gains by
controlling salary payments and reducing long delays (up to four months originally required for salary
payment and no control over rotating staff), and (ii) high political gains by satisfying teacher needs and
providing incentives (on-time payment, access to information, and expedited services) for improved
performance. The institutional strengthening investments for the Departments of Finance and Education
Statistics were incorporated into the overall Public Sector Modernization Program independently carried
out by the Government.
At the regional level, the investments included infrastructure improvements and personnel training. In terms
of technological tools, most regional offices are connected via internet and electronic mail, although some
continue to use only fax communication. Regional offices with internet connectivity have direct access to
MOE information, databases on personnel, education statistics, and other human resources transactions
(such as salary confirmation, all types of leaves and teaching staff transfers) managed at the central level.
With IDB support, the computerized management information system will continue to be expanded by
seven additional modules to support the management of human resources.
* Subcomponent (b) satisfactorily supported the development of an institutionalized system to conduct
annual standardized learning achievement testing for the three basic education cycles in all four core
subject areas (Spanish, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies). This education quality monitor
system provides continuous feedback to regions, schools, and classrooms (teachers) on the leaming
and teaching process outcomes, and helps schools develop strategies to improve their pedagogical
processes. In addition, average national achievement scores serve as proxy to measure the quality of
the education sector and its impact on student learning. This subcomponent met and exceeded all of its
programmed goals (see Annex 10, Table 6, for a detailed description of programmed and achieved
subcomponent targets).
The subcomponent was implemented in three phases: (i) implementation by the University of Costa Rica (
Instituto de Investigaci6n y Medicion Educativa - IIMEC), (ii) creation of an independent evaluation unit
(CENE-EDU), and the (iii) institutionalization of the evaluation system within the internal Quality Control
Department of the Ministry of Education. The University of Costa Rica implemented the subcomponent at
the beginning of the Project (1993), based on its experience with previous standardized national tests for
basic and secondary education. In 1995, the National Center for Evaluation (CENE-EDU) was created to
develop and manage an education quality evaluation system for purposes of accreditation and promotion
across school cycles and as a feedback mechanism on the teaching and learning process nationwide.
Methodologically, the standardized tests were integrated with the revised curriculum objectives of
1993-1995. By 1998, under a new concept of institutionalizing monitoring and evaluations functions
within the MOE, the staffing, equipment, and functions of CENE-EDU were transferred to the Quality
Control Department (Departamento de Control de la Calidad) of the MOE. The Project supported this
transition. Under the new institutionalized monitoring and evaluation arrangements, the MOE manages
(with its own financial funds) the promotion of new evaluation strategies at the national, regional and
- 11 -



school levels; training of technical staff and teachers; and the annual application of standardized
achievement tests nationwide.
Component C: Improvement in the Quality of Secondary Education
ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The secondary education component was included as part of the Basic Education Rehabilitation Project to
guarantee initial support for future reforms at this level. This component successfully conducted five key
secondary education studies (needs assessments), which served as inputs into the development of
subsequent secondary education reforms (supported by IDB and Government efforts). In addition, a pilot
in computer-assisted secondary education contributed to the near universalization of technology education
at the secondary level. In general, this component's activities have expanded secondary education
opportunities for basic education graduates (the direct beneficiaries of the Project).
*   Subcomponent (a) satisfactorily supported the completion of five needs assessments of secondary
education, which conclusions and recommendations were integrated into the planning processes of
future reforms at this level. The studies were in the area of (i) cost-benefit analysis; (ii) development of
logical, mathematical and verbal comprehension; (iii) causes and solutions for repetition and dropout
rates; (iv) student attitudes towards public secondary education; and (v) educational and employment
attainment of secondary education graduates.
The studies were prepared by the Department of Education Planning and Development of the MOE, with
staff including graduates from the Evaluation Masters also financed by the Project. The sample included 79
secondary education institutions nationwide, including academic and technical schools (both day and night
shifts). The studies served as basis for the curricular revisions of the III cycle at the secondary education
level (grades 7-9) and provided input in the preparation of the Lower Secondary Education Level Project
(IDB Loan 1010). The needs assessments called for optimization of the study program load of secondary
education and, as a result, classroom subjects at this level were reduced by 16%. In addition, all five
studies were integrated into a policy framework presented by the Ministry of Planning (Ministerio de
Planificaci6n Nacional Y Politica Economica-Area de Analisis del Desarrollo) regarding secondary
Education: El Desempefio Educativo y Las Politicas de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educacion
Secundaria, Serie de Estudios Especiales N.2, Noviembre 2000. Lastly-although the studies provided
feedback to key government planning agencies, including inputs for the preparation of a additional loan by
the IDB--the only criticism perceived of the studies was their limited feedback at the regional and school
levels.
*   Subcomponent (b) successfully implemented and evaluated a computer-assisted education pilot and,
thus, it was generalized in more than 80% of secondary schools across Costa Rica. Early indicators of
success provided by the University of Montreal's evaluation of the Pilot showed attitudinal and learning
impact on students of participating schools. As a result, other education technology programs in Costa
Rica have derived from this initial successful experience (e.g., Colegio Virtual and Kiosko de la
Informaci6n). See Annex 10, Table 7, for a listing of schools benefited by the Pilot.
The pilot initially installed 26 laboratories in 20 secondary education schools. The education technology
laboratories complemented the four basic courses curriculum with applied computer-assisted lessons. The
Program included quarterly training for school staff (up to 600 school staff involved in the
- 12 -



computer-assisted education program have been trained). In its expansion phase, given the success of the
pilot, 91 more laboratories were opened with financing by the BCIE (Banco Centroamericano de
Integraci6n Econ6mica). During the last phase of implementation of the Basic Education Project,
additional schools received support in setting up their education technology laboratories. In total, 166 of
the 206 secondary education schools in Costa Rica have access to computer technology and support for
their curricula and pedagogical processes. The Government plans to make coverage universal.
The University of Montreal conducted an impact evaluation of the pilot, assessing both student learning as
well as teachers and principals' perception of increased motivation and positive attitudes in students. A
summary of the conclusions of the study include: (i) improved technology familiarity and use by students
(and by the community, where the laboratories are also available to parents); (ii) more equitable access to
technology, as the program targeted schools with low income students and families; (iii) contributions to
logical thinking and creativity in students; (iv) positive complements to the regular course work of students;
(v) support to teachers in the presentation of course content and lectures, and (vi) perceptions of positive
attitude change towards the study of science and technology by students.
From the original idea of computer-assisted education (education technology laboratories), other programs
have evolved, including the "Virtual School Program" and the "Information Kiosk". The Virtual School
Program utilized Costa Rica's experience in the use of technology in secondary schools and expanded it by
providing opportunities to connectivity and communication between teachers and students in different
locations. As a pilot, it has begun to provide some experimental distance education courses via
video-conferencing. In turn, the Information Kiosk program has made available bibliographic information
to parents and communities and has provided general access to information through the internet on the
Costa Rican education sector.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No economic analysis was undertaken in the SAR and, thus, no NPV or ERR was reported. The SAR
qualified the expected benefits of the project, which included: (i) rehabilitation of known inputs to improve
the quality of teaching and learning (curriculum, educational materials, teacher training and appropriate
school infrastructure), (ii) reduced repetition and dropout rates, (iii) and reduced delays in the services
provided by the MOE through improved administrative processes, monitoring systems and computerized
information systems. For the purpose of defining ex-post an economic return marker for the Project, the
best indicator would be the reductions in dropout and repetition rates. During project implementation
repetition rates were reduced in primary education (grades 1-6) by 3.8 percentage points (from 12% to
8.2%) and in lower secondary education (grades 7-9) by 6.2 percentage points (from 15% to 8.8%). This
net decrease in percentage of students who repeated a grade, by the end of the Project, saved financial
resources at the Basic Education level with respect to the baseline data collected before Project
implementation (when a higher number of students repeated grades and, thus, additional financial
student/year resources had to be provided in order for repeating students to complete all nine years of Basic
Education). Thus, roughly the per student cost to provide basic education, by the year 2000, was reduced
by 3.8% in grades 1-6 and by 6.2% in grades 7-9, in relation to the year 1989.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial analysis was undertaken in the SAR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project had a substantial institutional development impact. Management and administration capacity
of the basic education sector increased and benefited the delivery of key education quality inputs, such as
- 13 -



curriculum, educational materials, teacher training, learning assessments and education infrastructure.
Specifically, examples of improved institutional capacity include:
*   The MOE has now the capacity to continue to update curricular contents and to adapt instructional
materials and teaching training to diverse teaching modalities (e.g., most recently Project-financed
training and materials were adapted for distance education programs, self-financed by the MOE).
* The MOE has now the capacity to conduct annual standardized learning achievement tests in all four
core subjects (Spanish, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies) and grade levels in Basic Education,
through the MOE's Quality Control Department.
*   The three main universities' teacher development programs have increased their capacity to work in
coordination; to integrate the development of curricula and pedagogical methodologies for teacher
training; and to maintain quality standards for the teaching profession across the country.
*   The Schools Infrastructure National Center (CENIFE), a Division of the Ministry of Education, is
self-reliant in planning school infrastructure needs and subcontracting construction and supervision of
civil works from the private sector (these functions were traditionally managed by the Ministry of Civil
Works).
*   In addition, there is an increased capacity at the community level, through the participation of school
governments (Juntas Escolares), to identify school infrastructure needs, .process requests, supervise
in-site school construction and guarantee maintenance activities.
Finally, the Project's successful organizational and management change strategy within the MOE's
Personnel (Human Resources) Department increased substantially the institutional capacity to upgrade
management and administrative processes and reduce delays in personnel actions, including salary payment
and compensations, approval of leave and transfer requests, follow-up to disciplinary actions, etc. The
MOE's management capacity benefits now from client-oriented processes, use of technology, quality control
measures, and efficient and effective management information systems.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Three external factors had a substantial impact on Project implementation: (i) the earthquake of April 22,
1991, (ii) the economic recession during 1995-1997, and (iii) the contesting of contract awards by outside
bidders. A major earthquake occurred in Costa Rica during project design, which in turn led to major
changes in the infrastructure subcomponent (expansion of infrastructure needs and use of prefabricated and
seismic resistance construction) and concentrated all initial implementation efforts (during 1992-93) in the
areas most affected by the earthquake. After the initial. reconstruction phase, the MOE extended
implementation time to reassess its regular civil works program based on the new geographic distributions
of student enrolment (since there were populations shifts from high to low risk geographic areas). The
subcomponent was not revamped until the latter part of 1995. A year later, the second external factor
affected Project implementation. The economic crisis that began during the second semester of 1996, and
worsened and persisted through 1997, also reduced the availability of counterpart funds. Implementation of
the Project overall slowed down given limited counterpart financial commitments. Not until the early part
of 1998, with the re-commitment of a new Government administration and the approval of a two-year
project extension period, was the Project able to substantially advance in all its planned activities and
guarantee successful delivery of its development objectives. A month before the planned loan closing of
December 31, 1999, and with most Project activities almost concluded, bidders of the last large contract
contested its award. The Government solved this situation in a very open and participatory manner (which
is a relatively normal procedure in Costa Rica); however it also requested an additional grace period to
solve, award and close this contract. With evidence of completion of most Project's activities (which had by
- 14-



then met and, in many cases, exceeded their targets), the Regional Vice President made an exception and
allowed an additional loan extension to September 30, 2000, to finalize the contract award negotiations,
complete the few pending activities, and close Project accounts.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The election year of 1997 and the transition period for the new 1998 Governmental and Ministerial
administrations affected Project execution. The last semester of 1997 and the first semester of 1998
suffered from weak decision making and logistical support during the process of presidential elections,
cabinet selection and personnel rotations. However, once the new administration was settled, it revitalized
project implementation, guaranteeing achievement of its development objectives. In addition, the new
Ministry of Education team proposed adjustments to various education strategies which--albeit requiring
additional time for feasibility studies, design and implementation readiness--guaranteed the integration of
educational inputs at the classroom level. For example, in the Curriculum Development and Didactic
Materials subcomponents, the curriculum was modified from an integrated approach in the first basic
education cycle (grades 1-3) to a subject-based curricular framework. In turn, the didactic materials, the
teacher training and the student evaluation subcomponents also had to be re-evaluated to show coherence
with the new curricular approach. During the period of government leadership change, the PCU showed an
exemplary performnance in maintaining a minimum level of Project execution and serving as the institutional
knowledge warehouse for the Project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
At Project launch, the PCU had shown limited knowledge regarding Bank procedures and it was lacking
computerized planning, information and financial systems; however, the PCU gained experience and
efficiency over time. In spite of changes in Government and Ministerial administration, the MOE
maintained the original PCU staff in their posts, which enabled the Project to meet and exceed its output
goals and to achieve its development objectives. Moreover, during the last two years of implementation,
some PCU staff from the Education Rehabilitation Project technically supported other PCUs in the country
and in other Central American countries.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal the Project costs were estimated at US$61.50 million for which financing of US$23 million
(37.5%/o), US$28 million (45.5%) and US$10.5 million (17%) were to be provided by the Bank, the IDB
and the Government, respectively. From the Bank loan, at appraisal, US$7.70 million in physical and price
contingencies were planned. However, only US$7.32 were required during project execution, and, by the
time of loan closing, US$377,868 were cancelled. The total Bank loan for this project, thus, amounted to
US$22.62 million.
Pattern of Disbursement During Project Execution. Within the first two years, the project experienced
difficulties related to PCU's lack of experience in Bank procedures and the absence of good control
instruments (accounting records registration was made manually and later on Excel worksheets). Another
major problem for project launching was the non-availability of the IDB's funds early during Project
execution, given delays in meeting IDB disbursement conditions (school property titles and the design of the
National Construction Maintenance System). By the mid-term evaluation period, in 1995, the IBRD loan
disbursements were approximately 22% of the Loan amount; from 1995 to the end of 1997, with increased
supervision and support from the Bank's new Resident Mission in Costa Rica (since closed), Project
implementation accelerated. However, this period also coincided with the peak of the economic recession
(1996-1997), when lack of availability of counterpart funds was a major problem for project
implementation. By the original loan closing date (December 31, 1997), almost 10 million dollars (43% of
the loan) were still undisbursed. With full support from the new Government (1998-2002) and concrete
- 15-



evidence of the Project's capacity to achieve its development objectives, a loan extension was approved by
the World Bank (1998-2000), which enabled the Project to meet all financial and physical outputs; disburse
fully committed loan and counterpart funds; and achieve its intended objectives.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
ICR Rating: Likely
It is likely that the Project will maintain the achievements generated during its implementation and the
development objectives over its economic and impact life. Project impact sustainability is based on the
following considerations:
*   The new Basic Education curriculum financed by the Project has been incorporated in all public
schools in the country.
*   The national evaluation system, composed of annual standardized achievement tests in the four core
subject areas (Spanish, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies) is an on-going strategy fully
supported by MOE technical and financial resources.
*   The Project-financed teacher training programs are being sustained by coordinated programs in the
three key universities of the country. In addition, the demand for teacher training specializations has
increased and is being self-financed by teachers and school administrators who wish to continue
autonomously their professional development.
*   The CENADI, the Division of Didactic Materials of the MOE, is sustaining subsequent revisions to
Project-financed didactic materials as well as to other education programs evolved from initial Project
interventions, such as the CRA (Centros Regionales de Aprendizaje) and the Distance Education
strategies.
*   The computer-assisted education pilot has already been adopted (with own Government resources) in
more than 80% of secondary schools and full universalization is planned by the end of the school year
2002 (Governmental resources are available and committed for this purpose).
*   The infrastructure maintenance is sustainable through the community participation strategies supported
by the Juntas Escolares (School Governments). A small maintenance program, which will
complement community efforts, has been set up within the School Infrastructure National Center
(CENIFE).
*   The MOE has incorporated into its budget the required resources for the replacement of textbooks,
student workbooks, teacher guides and other printed material (replenishment rotations are estimated
every 3-4 years), to complement the 30% of replenishment funds collected through a school textbook
rental and maintenance fund.
*   Finally, the Education Budget as percentage of the National Budget increased from 12.9% before
Project execution to 22.24% in the year 2000; likewise, the Education Budget as percentage of GDP
increased from 4.8% to approximately 6% during the same period.
The key future challenge is the capacity of the Government to undertake investments to strengthen the
secondary education to extend coverage and improve quality. IDB is already financing an investment
Project in lower secondary education. The World Bank, in turn, continues its dialogue with Costa Rica to
define future areas of suppoft in the country's education sector.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
To guarantee the regular future operations, the Project's subcomponents have already been mainstreamed
into the operations of the MOE, either through its departments managing the education quality inputs
- 16-



(curriculum, education materials, achievement tests, school infrastructure) or through the three universities
that continue to provide teacher training programs. Also, all estimated recurrent costs for continued
activities (which are related to the original objectives and components of the Project) have been
incorporated into the 2001/2002 national budget.
To maximize the benefits of the Project, the MOE agreed with the Bank on the following recommendations:
* Continue to support the operations of the MOE's regional offices as part of the government's
decentralized management strategies.
* Strengthen the role and capacity of School Governments (Juntas Escolares), which although not
directly a part of the Project, continue to be a necessary input for the effectiveness of a decentralized
education system.
*   Periodically evaluate the quality of the coordinated teacher training programs being sustained by the
three universities that participated in Project implementation: UCR, UNA, and UNED.
*   Maintain the public-private sector alliances, and the respective cost and quality efficiency gains, for
future school infrastructure investments.
* Maxirnize the project implementation capacity generated within the PCU by utilizing its staff and
systems for the coordination of subsequent education investments.
*   Ensure the maintenance of the required percentage of national budget to be allocated to the education
sector (now approximately 6% of GDP).
*   Incorporate in future education projects the lessons learned in the implementation of the Basic
Education Rehabilitation Project
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall: satisfactory
Bank performance in the identification of the Project: satisfactorv
A multi-disciplinary Bank team supported the Government through the project design process, which
included needs assessment, feasibility studies, stakeholder consultations, and preparation of action plans.
The objectives of the Project were consistent with Government's development strategy (Plan General de
Educaci6n 1990-1994), and, Project objectives and measures were stated clearly and concisely. The
design of the Project included several well known interventions to improve education quality, and it paid
special attention to innovative efforts in the area of organizational and management change.
Bank performance in the preparation support and appraisal of the Project: satisfactory
For both preparation support and appraisal, Bank performance was found to be satisfactory. This rating is
based on the following considerations:
*   Bank assistance by a multi-disciplinary team of Bank staff and consultants in the area of education,
economic analysis, poverty alleviation, administration, and civil works.
*   Flexible procedures to incorporate reconstruction needs after the earthquake of April 22, 1991, which
occurred while the project was under preparation.
*   The Project Appraisal mission included members who had not participated in Project preparation to
guarantee the objectivity of the appraisal and to identify any oversights.
*   Project risks were identified during identification and/or appraisal and, consequently, minimization
- 17 -



strategies were planned.
* There were some limitations in terms of the plans for the creation of the PCU, which initially lacked
comprehensive training in terms of administrative procedures for Bank loans.
In retrospect, the major oversight of the preparation phase was the lack of minimum attention to developing
(before Project launch) an appropriate financial management system, including computerized software. As
a result, these systems had to be created during the first year of implementation, delaying effective start up
of Project activities. As a result of experiences such as this one, Project design and appraisal now require
certification from a Bank Financial Specialist that all management systems are in place, which was not the
case in the early 1990s.
7.2 Supervision:
Overall: satisfactory
Bank perfornance in supervision was satisfactory. This rating is based on the following considerations:
* During the first phase of implementation, the Bank supported the development of computerized
financial management systems and agreed with MOE to open a commercial bank account that would
allow more liquidity and disbursement flexibility than an account with the Central Bank.
* From the period after the mid-term evaluation and during the two-year extension period, more intensive
supervision supported increased Project execution and achievement of goals through the following
strategies: (i) more supervision involvement by the Bank's Regional Implementation Unit in Costa Rica
(until its closing on March 1998); (ii) continuous monitoring of financial and physical implementation;
(iii) increased support in procurement processes to expedite delivery of Project inputs; (iv) increased
sector dialogue discussions with the Government, including TA to plan subsequent investments at the
secondary education level; and (v) stakeholders consultations.
* The Bank also provided flexibility in the use of funds to respond to the changing needs of the education
sector, including a quick response to the damages caused by the April 1991 earthquake, the changes in
curricular orientation, and the added infrastructure needs required by the incorporation of one
preschool year into the Basic Education cycle.
* The Bank supported the external evaluations of key Project components, including the teacher training
program, the quality evaluation system, and the computer-assisted pilot.
* The Bank was proactive in supervising in an integrated manner both IDB and IBRD-financed
subcomponents, guaranteeing in this way Project cohesiveness. Moreover, both Banks financed not
only complementary but mutually dependent components, and a fluid coordination--facilitated
successfully by the Borrower and the Banks--contributed to Project outcomes.
Generally, however, the Bank's stance during the first year of operations, when most of the delays took
place, could have been more proactive. Also, Bank's reorganizations and personnel rotation caused a
higher than average change in Task Manager (TM) for this project: four TMs over the Project life. Only
after the mid-term evaluation and during the period of loan extension, was supervision more intensive, were
increased resources allocated to technical assistance, and supervision missions were expanded in terms of
size and frequency. Also, the same TM was mantained during the last three years of project execution.
During the year 2000, only one last supervision was required, since most Project activities had finalized
and only an additional loan extension to September 30, 2000, was provided by the Bank's RVP to
negotiate, award and close the contract that had been contested. The Bank's procurement offices
involvement during this period was not required, since the Government solved the contested bid locally
through its national procurement review agencies.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
- 18-



Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory as a result of the factors mentioned in sections 7.1 and 7.2,
above, and summarized below:
* Appropriate team work, good coordination with cofinanciers and communication with Government
* Flexible response according to client and sector needs and expectations.
* Intensive supervision after the mid-term evaluation and during loan extension period, including on-site
assistance on procurement and financial administration matters.
* Specialized supervision for those components with financial or physical delays.
* Field visits and discussions with direct project beneficiaries.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Rating: satisfactorv
The Government's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Ministry of Education led the
process of Project preparation and worked directly with the technical assistance provided by the World
Bank and 1DB. Project design was directly linked to sector assessments and development strategies. (see
above section 3.5 on quality at entry). All feasibility studies, stakeholder consultations, and Project delivery
designs were thoroughly and effectively executed.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government performance in the implementation of the Project can be considered to be, overall,
satisfactorv based on the following considerations:
* The Government Project team showed an increasingly effective implementation capacity as they
learned Bank loan administrative procedures and continuously increased their project management
capacity.
* The institutional capacity of the Ministry of Education and co-executing agencies (the three main
teacher training universities) was increased through committed and direct participation in Project
implementation and is sustained to-date.
* During the economic down-turns, liquidity of counterpart funds was low; however, by the end of the
Project, all committed Govemment counterpart funds had been made available to the Project and
resources for recurrent costs during the project's economic life had been incorporated into the national
budget.
*   The Government was committed to the delivery of the Project, as it was its key investment in Basic
Education for the decade (1993-2000).
* The major indicator of satisfactory perfortnance by the Government was that Project output and goals
in most subcomponents surpassed the original goals, despite a slow start up and the changing
conditions and needs of the education sector during the time of Project execution.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Rating: Satisfactory
Despite, initial capacity constraints, the performance of the implementing agency in the execution of the
Project was satisfactory based on the following considerations:
* Although there was a slow start up of execution and increased sector demands, during an additional
extension period of two-years the MOE and its PCU finalized all Project activities and surpassed
programmed goals. The PCU performance improved and became a key technical and coordinating
- 19-



agency for the MOE.
*   Mid-term Evaluation and Bank supervision recommendations were mostly implemented and the
achievement of goals improved substantially.
* Despite changes in government administrations (Calderon Fournier, 1990-1994; Figueres Olsen,
1994-1998; and Rodriguez Echeverria, 1998-2002), the Project maintained continuity, especially in the
staffing of the PCU.
*   Effective development of annual work programs, progress reports, monitoring and evaluations were
complied with (see Annex 8 for history of Status of Legal Covenants).
In retrospect, longer than planned disbursement schedules could have probably been reduced if it had been
possible to avoid the traditional slow down in implementation which occur during Government transitions,
which was also the case in Costa Rica when Project implementation suffered during the periods when new
MOE leadership was fully briefed, comfortable and completely settled in their new posts. This assessment
also recognizes that the implementation agency could not control the external factors that increased
implementation time, such as (i) the earthquake reconstruction emphasis during the first year of operations,
(ii) the economic downturns of the mid-1990s, and (iii) the longer procurement processes required by
national procurement agencies to manage successfully the contest of contract bid awards.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, Borrower performance was satisfactorv as a result of the factors mentioned in sections 7.4, 7.5
and 7.6, above, and summarized below:
*   Overall Government commitment to the education sector and the Project as the key investment program
in Basic Education.
*   Continuity of PCU staff and their increasing knowledge and capacity.
*   Institutionalization of key components within the structure of the MOE.
*   Innovative strategies in organizational and management change.
*   Comprehensive interventions in support of education quality and student learning.
*   Despite a slow start up of the Project and periods of slow execution, Project goals were achieved and
surpassed in certain components.
8. Lessons Learned
There are several main lessons that can be leamed from the Project's experience:
*   Integration of quality education subcomponents (Curriculum, Educational Materials, Teacher
Training and Learning Evaluations) require intensive coordination and additional implementation
time. The implementation of the Project showed the importance of integrating educational inputs, even
if this implies longer than expected implementation times. Both the didactic materials and teacher
training programs in the Project awaited for the development of the curricular framework before being
implemented. Thus, important curricular innovations in Costa Rica--in both subject area content and
pedagogical methodologies (i.e., student-centered, participatory classroom techniques)--provided the
framework for the design and delivery of supportive inputs such as educational materials and training.
However, the Project action plans did not incorporate the needed coordination and integration time and,
thus, original time lines could not be maintained. Future projects should specify the linkages between
curriculum, materials and teacher training and provide actions, time and resources to guarantee their
integrated delivery at the classroom level.
* Public-private sector alliances increase project implementation capacity and effectiveness. Project
- 20-



execution benefited from extensive alliances and subcontracting of private sector agencies, foundations
and firms. The training program was supported by both private and public universities, guaranteeing
not only achievement of outputs but also increasing the capacity of these actors to sustain the teacher
development programs after the end of the Project.  In the school infrastructure component,
construction and supervision was sub-contracted from the private sector, which improved quality;
reduced costs; and guaranteed accountability.  The computer-assisted education program was
supported by private organizations, both for technical assistance and for external evaluations.
*   Continuity of Project implementing personnel is key to maintain satisfactory Project execution,
especially during and after changes in Government administration. The Project experienced
substantial delays during Government transitions and during changes in MOE's leadership (turn-over of
Ministerial posts); however, the delays could have been more significant and detrimental if PCU staff
had also been changed. Instead, the PCU staff was maintained and contributed to a continuing at least
a minimum level of project execution and to safeguard Project knowledge and implementation capacity.
Finally, the PCU's staff permanence allowed for continuous capacity building and for a successful
coordinated work with both multilateral banks that supported the Project: IDB and World Bank.
*   Supervision and technical assistance must combine sectorial and administrative issues. To
guarantee more intensive Bank supervision, especially after the mid-term evaluation and during the
loan-extension period, Bank mission members had combined experience in both sectorial issues
(curriculum, educational materials, training, etc.) and in loan administrative procedures, such as
procurement and financial management. Such combination allowed for better support to both MOE's
technical staff and PCUs administrative personnel. Bank loan management procedures (procurement,
financial management, disbursements, etc.) are sometimes perceived as complex by borrowers and,
thus, require periodic, and at times intensive, training and technical assistance.
*   To guarantee development objectives, projects must adapt to the changing needs of the education
sector. Project implementing agencies and Bank supervision teams were continuously monitoring
changes in demands and needs of the sector. For example, the school infrastructure component had to
reassess enrollment projections and regional distributions. Provision of educational inputs had to be
expanded beyond the initially targeted schools, since most public schools in Costa Rica were in need of
teaching and learning quality support. Likewise, the Project supported the computer-assisted education
pilot not only in the initial implementation phase, but also during its expansion period to guarantee the
sustainability and impact of this subcomponent.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
I.     Consideraciones Generales
El Ministerio de Educaci6n Nblica, con la colaboraci6n del Banco Mundial, realiz6 en 1987 un
diagn6stico de la educaci6n costarricense. Dicho estudio (cuyos datos se muestran en el Staff Appraisal
Report, Costa Rica, Basic Education Rehabilitation Project. Report No. 9893-CR, The World Bank, 1991)
reflej6 el siguiente deterioro de la calidad de la educaci6n en Costa Rica:
*   incremento en las tasas de deserci6n, repetici6n y el bajo desempenio escolar;
* deficit de docentes calificados ante los aumentos continuos de la matricula escolar;
* insuficiencia de textos y materiales de aprendizaje;
- 21 -



*   deficiencias en los metodos de evaluaci6n y supervisi6n;
* deficiencias en las condiciones de infraestructura escolar del pais;
* obsolescencia de los planes de estudio en la educaci6n;
* centralismo en la toma de decisiones institucionales, con aplicaci6n de procedimientos obsoletos; y
* deficiencias en el uso de estrategias de planificaci6n, administraci6n y presupuesto.
Para estos problemas se plantearon una serie de soluciones para mejorar la calidad de este sector:
a.- Reforzar en el curriculo las areas de ciencias, matematicas, espaniol y estudios sociales, asi como
introducir nuevos horizontes tecnol6gicos que permitan paulatinamente sentar las bases de una
estructura s6lida de la sociedad costarricense.
b.- Incluir y fortalecer en el curriculo nuevas areas, tales como: salud y nutrici6n, ecologia, preparacion
para los desastres naturales y provocados por el ser humano, derechos humanos.
c.- Desarrollar un concepto educativo que permita generar en el aula la interacci6n: Alumno - docente -
material para el aprendizaje - y el propio entomo en que se dan los procesos de ensefianza y
aprendizaje.
d.- Actuar sobre los factores de calidad y eficiencia interna, durante un periodo de cinco anos, para
proyectar cambios significativos importantes en la educacion general basica.
e.- Producir materiales didacticos como: libros de texto, guias para el docente, cuadernos de trabajo,
laminas, valijas didActicas, fichas, fichas para el aprovechamiento del entorno, material audiovisual
interactivo, y otros.
f.- Establecer un sistema nacional permanente de desarrollo profesional para el docente, que permita:
* titular al aspirante que labora en el sistema y preparar los nuevos docentes para atender el
aumento de matricula; asi como a los que se requieran por jubilaci6n; y
* mantener un programa de actualizaci6n de los docentes.
g.- Reparaci6n y rehabilitaci6n de escuelas:
* Reparar y construir aulas.
* Rehabilitar o construir baterias sanitarias.
* Construir espacios administrativos.
* Construir y rehabilitar sedes regionales.
* Construir casas del maestro.
h.- Reestructurar tanto las oficinas centrales del MEP como su estructura regional, de tal manera que
se garantice:
* modemizaci6n de los procedimientos;
* desconcentraci6n de las areas administrativas y t6cnicas, promoviendo un equilibrio entre las
regiones educativas y estimulando su participaci6n en el sector; y
* capacitaci6n a funcionarios administrativos.
i.- Establecer un sistema de evaluaci6n que permita identificar las instituciones de bajo rendimiento, las
- 22 -



areas y t6picos de deficiencia de los estudiantes.
j.- Llevar a cabo un Plan Piloto en instituciones del tercer ciclo, referente a la utilizacion de
herramientas informaticas para la ensefianza de las disciplinas basicas.
Estas prioridades se concretaron dentro del Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Educaci6n Basica con tres
grandes objetivos: i) Mejorar la calidad y la eficiencia de la prestaci6n de servicios de educaci6n general
basica (grados de 10. a 9.), ii) Fortalecer la capacidad de planificaci6n y administraci6n del Ministerio de
Educaci6n Publica y, iii) Ayudar al prestatario a mejorar la calidad y la eficacia de su programa de
educaci6n secundaria.
II.    Impacto
Dentro de la definici6n del impacto del Proyecto, lo que se pretendi6 fue verificar si la tendencia de
deterioro sostenido de la decada de los ochentas se revirti6, ya que este era el objetivo de desarrollo
primordial de la rehabilitaci6n de la Educaci6n Basica. Asi, pues, se comprobaron las siguientes
expectativas de la tendencia, al cierre del Programa de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n General
Basica:
*   La cobertura, en 1981, en la educaci6n primaria (de primero a sexto grado) era de 102,4%, al finalizar
el prestamo 3414- Banco Mundial, en 1999, mejor6 hasta alcanzar el 108.0%. En la educaci6n
secundaria, en el tercer ciclo (septimo, octavo y noveno) cuyos indicadores eran auin mas modesto en
1989- 66,5%, se incrementaron hasta alcanzar un indice de 72,5 % en 1999.
*   La promoci6n, en 1989, en la primaria era de 86.6%, a finales de los afios noventa, su tendencia al
mejoramiento alcanzado en 1999, el 90,2 %. Para ese mismo periodo de comparaci6n, la tendencia es
auin mejor en la educaci6n del tercer ciclo, esta pas6 de un 70,9 % a un 81,6 %, al cierre del Programa.
*   En lo que respecta a la repetici6n, el indice reflej6 un 10,3 % en 1989, a un 9,5 % en 1999. En el
tercer ciclo de un 10,0% a un 12,4%.
*   En 1981, en la primaria, la deserci6n era de 3,6%  y al final del prestamo 3414-Banco Mundial, era
de 4,4%. En el tercer ciclo, para ese mismo periodo disminuy6 de 15,0% a 10,8%.
A finales de la decada de los ochentas, en su gran mayoria, la poblaci6n estudiantil y docente no contaba
con suficientes recursos didActicos y, muy especialmente, con textos educativos, para la practica de la
ensenianza y el aprendizaje. En la actualidad, la cobertura es de un 100%, de los cuales, con recursos de
PROMECE, el Ministerio de Educaci6n Piblica ha cubierto con textos de la Serie Hacia el Siglo XXI el
92,29 % de las escuelas puiblicas del pais y el 63,0 % de los colegios academicos, en el tercer ciclo. La
diferencias con el 100%, en primaria y educaci6n del tercer ciclo, son atendidas por la industria privada,
por medio de la comercializaci6n y por otras opciones, como las fichas didacticas, editadas, impresas y
distribuidas por el PROMECE, con el concurso del Centro Nacional de DidActica y la Divisi6n de
Desarrollo Curricular del M.E.P.
En materia de titulaci6n de los docentes, se observa que mientras a finales de los ochentas, en la primaria
tan solo el 73,0 % del personal contratado por el Ministerio de Educaci6n Publica, contaba con alguTn grado
academico extendido por una Universidad, para la ensefianza; en 1999 el 88,1 % es titulado. Tendencia
similar ocufre en la secundaria, en el tercer ciclo, al alcanzar en 1999, el 80,4% de docentes titulados.
- 23 -



Finalmente, al respecto del presupuesto para educaci6n, en 1981, se destinaba el 4,1% del Producto Intemo
Bruto ( PIB) a los gastos diversos del M.E.P. En 1999, estos recursos aumentaron a un 5, 5%, o sea 1,4
puntos mAs del PIB para el M.E.P . La tendencia creciente en la asignaci6n de los recursos continua en los
dos ultimos afios. En el 2001, se presupuestaron 73,110.18 millones de colones costarricenses mas, de lo
asignado en 1999, y se reform6 el articulo 78 de la Constituci6n Politica de Costa Rica (Ley 7676 del 26
de mayo de 1997) que demanda destinar al menos el seis por ciento del Producto Intemo Bruto al Sector
Educativo.
Im.    Principales Logros
Para la consecucion de los objetivos planteados, el proyecto se dividi6 en componentes que se distribuyeron
entre los Bancos (BID-BIRF), excepto los gastos de la UCP y el componente de infraestructura fisica que --
por su dimensi6n y cobertura en cada regi6n educativa -- fueron financiados por los dos bancos. Los
componentes que financiaria el BIRF son: Desarrollo Profesional, Infraestructura Fisica (zonas: Atlantica,
Central y Pacifico Central), Evaluaci6n Educativa e Informatica Educativa (III ciclo). El BID financiaria:
Desarrollo Curricular, Infraestructura Fisica (zonas: Huetar Norte, Brunca y Chorotega), Recursos y
Materiales para el aprendizaje y el Fortalecimiento de la Gesti6n del M.E.P.
A. En los subcomponentes con el financiamiento con el prestamo 3414- Banco Mundial se
identificaron los siguientes logros:
a.- El subcomponente de Desarrollo Profesional. Con participacion en las actividades de formaci6n de
docentes, por medio de la certificaci6n en los centros universitarios de educacion superior de 4.420
aspirantes, mediante un convenio con el MEP. Ademas, incremento de la capacitaci6n a los docentes de la
educaci6n general basica y personal administrativo, por medio de cursos y seminarios en servicio, dirigidos
a 16.650 profesores, ademAs de 1.591 funcionarios del MEP en diversas areas. Especialmente se lograron
las siguientes metas:
*   Se fonnaron 2544 docentes en primaria y 929 en el III ciclo. Significa que maestros sin titulaci6n
fueron forrnados en las Universidades Estatales (Universidad de Costa Rica, Universidad Nacional
y Universidad Estatal a Distancia), y obtuvieron el grado de diplomado, como minimo.
*   Tambien se concluy6 una evaluaci6n cualitativa del componente, realizada por investigadores de la
Universidad de Costa Rica.
*   Se capacit6 a mAs de 27,000 funcionarios regionales y de oficinas centrales, en temas como
evaluaci6n, programas de estudio, educaci6n curricular, ensefianza del ingles, valores y otros.
*   Se actualiz6 los conocimientos de los funcionarios en los ambitos nacional y regional, en temas
relacionados con la InformAtica Educativa.
*   Se llev6 a cabo la evaluaci6n externa cualitativa y se analizaron los resultados de la evaluaci6n del
impacto del Programa de Radio Interactiva para la enseiianza del ingles.
b.- El subcomponente de Infraestructura Fisica. En procura de mejorar las condiciones fisicas y
ambientales para impartir lecciones, por medio del suministro de recursos necesarios influyentes en la
calidad de la educaci6n. Entre ellos se encontraban:
- 24 -



*   695 aulas rehabilitadas.
*   137 aulas nuevas.
*   321 servicios sanitarios rehabilitados.
*   17 servicios sanitarios nuevos
*   55 casas del maestro nuevas.
* 34 comedores escolares reparados.
*   1 sede regional nueva y 2 remodeladas.
*   693 juegos de mobiliario escolar (pupitres y sillas)
De estos se lograron las siguientes metas:
*   Se logr6 concluir el programa constructivo de aulas, servicios sanitarios, espacios administrativos,
comedores escolares y otros, obteniendo como resultado la rehabilitaci6n y construcci6n de 939
aulas, 315 servicios sanitarios, 114 comedores, 86 casas de maestro, 46 espacios administrativos y
4 direcciones regionales.
*   Asi mismo, se concluy6 el programa de dotaci6n de mobiliario para los alumnos y los docentes.
*   En el aflo 2000, ampliamos las metas originales, adquiriendo al final del Programa 60,255 pupitres.
*   Ampliamos la cobertura en la intervencion de infraestructura fisica en las Sedes Regionales,
rehabilitando y construyendo, ademAs de las Sedes de San Jose, Lim6n y Puntarenas, el inmueble
de la Direcci6n Regional de Ensefianza de Aguirre.
c.- El subcomponente de Evaluaci6n Educativa. Como apoyo al desarrollo de las evaluaciones y la
construcci6n, validaci6n, administraci6n y analisis de las pruebas estudiantiles, asi como la capacitaci6n del
personal docente mediante talleres sobre evaluaci6n escolar, incluido el suministro de equipo y materiales
de entrenamiento. Los logros concretos fueron los siguientes:
*   Se disefaron, se imprimieron y aplicaron pruebas a mas de 135.000 alumnos. Ademas se llev6 a
cabo el analisis de los resultados y la divulgaci6n (realimentaci6n) al sistema educativo, en las
siguientes areas y proyectos:
*   Pruebas Diagn6sticas: Primer ingreso de estudiantes (Primer grado), de conocimiento (I y II ciclo
de las cuatro materias basicas), aptitud fisica (de I y II ciclo), destrezas cognoscitivas (III ciclo),
actitud socio-afectiva (autoestima, docentes y alumnos).
*   Acreditaci6n y diagn6stico: III. Se promulg6 el Decreto No. 26.014, del 12 de mayo de 1997, en
el cual se institucionaliza el Componente, con la creaci6n del Centro Nacional de Evaluaci6n
(CENE-EDU), el cual fue cerrado por decisi6n de la administraci6n que ingres6 en 1998.
*   Se efectuaron mas de 40 talleres y otras jomadas de capacitaci6n al personal tecnico y educadores
de las regiones educativas.
*   La maestria profesional en evaluaci6n, en el marco del convenio con la Universidad de Costa Rica,
contribuy6 a fortalecer institucionalmente al Ministerio de Educaci6n Publica, graduando a
cincuenta funcionarios.
d.- El subcomponente de Informatica Educativa. Con un plan piloto en 20 colegios de educaci6n
- 25 -



secundaria, para equipar un laboratorio con microcomputadoras, impresoras, mobiliario y software
educativo. Ademas se previeron actividades de capacitaci6n y seguimiento para funcionarios y estudiantes.
Se Instalo e implement6, inicialmente, el Plan Piloto de 26 laboratorios de Informatica Educativa, en 20
centros educativos del III ciclo. Esto gener6 un impacto cualitativo en la educaci6n costarricense en lo que
respecta al tercer ciclo. Esta herramienta es utilizada para apoyar a los docentes en el proceso de
enseiianza y a los alumnos en el proceso de aprendizaje en las asignaturas basicas Matematicas, Espafiol,
Estudios Sociales y Ciencias. Posteriormente, la cobertura fue ampliada en 91 Laboratorios de Informatica
adicionales, con el financiamiento del Banco Centroamericano de Integraci6n Econ6mica (BCIE).
Con el concurso de la Universidad de Montreal - Canada, se concluy6 la evaluaci6n de impacto del
Programa, destacando la importancia, el exito y las mejoras del Programa. Se analizaron los resultados con
los Directores y docentes de los centros educativos, donde funciona un centro de informAtica.
Cuatro veces al afio se realizaron diversas capacitaciones a 600 funcionarios involucrados con el Programa.
En el 2000, con recursos del prestamo, en el marco del Plan de contingencia 3414-CR, ampliamos la
cobertura del Programa de InformAtica Educativa en el III Ciclo, con la instalaci6n de 15 laboratorios
adicionales. En la actualidad, al cierre de este proyecto, con recursos propios del Ministerio de Educaci6n
Publica, se lleva a cabo un concurso licitatorio tendente a la ampliacion de la cobertura del Programa de la
Informatica Educativa.
B. En los componentes con el financiamiento del BID se identificaron los siguientes logros:
Los logros que se mencionan son parciales, debido a que a este prestamo le restan aun 12 meses de
ejecuci6n y cierre oficial.
l.-El subcomponente de Desarrollo Curricular. Con participaci6n en el desarrollo de un nuevo curriculo
para los grados de 10 a 90, por medio de actividades como: Cursos, becas y pasantias dentro y fuera del
pais, integraci6n de nuevas areas al curriculo, suministro de materiales para capacitaci6n, selecci6n y
equipamiento de escuelas demostrativas y algunos estudios e investigaciones complementarias. Los avances
en este Componente son muy satisfactorios y complementan las reformas curriculares, que con recursos
propios, impuls6 el Ministerio de Educaci6n Publica, en Areas como: la definici6n de la Politica Hacia el
siglo XXI, los Programas de Estudio, normativa de evaluaci6n y otros.
La edici6n y producci6n de mas de ciento noventa y dos mil boletines y guias para apoyar a los
docentes y mas de trescientas mil guias metodol6gicas como recursos didacticos para la
capacitaci6n, fueron algunos de los resultados acumulados en el componente, con la finalidad de
impactar el trabajo del educador en el aula. El trabajo cualitativo en el Programa de las
Instituciones Demostrativas y la excelencia, ha sido destacado por los educadores.
La capacitaci6n del personal administrativo, docente-administrativo y docente de las Regiones Educativas,
llevadas a cabo por el Componente de Adecuaci6n Curricular, en temas como estrategias y procedimientos
de ensefianza y aprendizaje, la incorporaci6n en Areas como la educaci6n en valores, la ecologia,
revitalizaci6n, enfoque constructiva y su aplicaci6n en el aula, articulaci6n preescolar con el primer grado y
de la escuela al colegio, seguridad personal, salud, nutrici6n, estilos de aprendizaje, estrategias de
evaluaci6n, y muchos otros mas, tuvieron gran impacto, en especial en aquellas regiones cuyos indicadores
de rendimiento academico son mas bajos.
- 26 -



2.- El subcomponente de Recursos para el Aprendizaje. Con la producci6n de materiales didacticos
para las escuelas del proyecto, asi como la preparaci6n, publicaci6n, validaci6n, impresi6n y distribuci6n
de los nuevos libros de texto para los grados de primero a noveno anio. Aproximadamente 1.892.400 libros
de texto y 32.500 guias para el maestro. Tambien se incluye la creaci6n del fondo editorial del MEP.
Con el apoyo de la Editorial de la Universidad de Costa Rica, se editaron 96 obras, agrupadas bajo la
denominaci6n de "Serie Hacia el siglo XXI", destinadas a atender a los alumnos, alumnas y docentes de la
Educacion General Basica. Este complejo didactico, se compone de: texto y cuademo de actividades para
los alumnos de primero a sexto anlo de la primaria y guias didacticas para los docentes. En secundaria, se
editaron solo textos para los alumnos y guias para los docentes, las cuales abarca las cuatro asignaturas
basicas para los tres primeros anios: s6timo, octavo y noveno.
El complejo didActico se elabor6 en estricta coherencia con la Politica Educativa Hacia el siglo XXI y los
programas de estudio respectivos. Una vez concluida la edici6n, se imprimieron mas de cinco millones de
estas obras, las cuales fheron distribuidas durante 1997, con posteriores redistribuciones para atender el
aumento de matricula y la creaci6n de centros educativos.
Complementariamente, se distribuyeron muchos folletos, mapas, afiches y bibliotecas. Tambien diferentes
recursos para el aprendizaje. Todos estos materiales fueron puestos al servicio de los docentes. En los
ultimos tres afios, los procesos de capacitaci6n permitieron atender a mas de cuatro mil funcionarios
docentes y Asesores Especificos. Con gran 6xito y aceptaci6n, se edit6 con el concurso de los funcionarios
del Ministerio de Educaci6n PuTblica, una colecci6n de Fichas DidActicas, para apoyar a los docentes que
laboran en escuelas rurales: escuelas multigrados (unidocentes y de direcci6n 1 y 2).
Mas de treinta y cinco millones de estas fichas fueron impresas y distribuidas en todo el pais.
Ademas de los talleres y jornadas de capacitaciones, el Programa disen6, conceptualiz6 e imprimi6 folletos,
m6dulos de trabajo y materiales para la capacitaci6n docente y de los cuerpos de asesores regionales, con
una cobertura nacional. En el 2000, se redefini6 la estrategia de apoyo a los docentes y Directores
Regionales de Ensenianza, cambiando el enfasis de trabajo. Por consiguiente, nuestros planes de trabajo se
basaron en el 6nfasis de la demanda y no de la oferta.
Para la sustentabilidad y sostenibilidad del programa de textos, se conceptualiz6 la creaci6n del Fondo
Editorial, el cual implica un cobro por el uso de los textos y la capitalizaci6n de los recursos financieros
contables, con el fin de reinvertir y mejorar la calidad de las obras y garantizar la reimpresi6n de las
mismas. En forma sistematica, las especialistas del componente disefiaron instrumentos de evaluaci6n del
uso de los complejos didActicos en todas las regiones educativas del pais, seleccionando una muestra
significativa de circuitos escolares, como uno de los insumos para determinar las necesidades de
capacitaci6n al respecto. La misma capacitaci6n recurrente se utiliz6 como elemento de posicionamiento y
sostenibilidad del programa. El Fondo Editorial esta regulado por el Decreto No. 21902 de fecha 02 de
marzo de 1993.
3.- El subcomponente de Fortalec-iento Institucional. Como participante en la instalaci6n de un
sistema de informaci6n gerencial, que permitiera la administraci6n del proceso de descentralizaci6n del
sistema educativo y el fortalecimiento de las divisiones clave del MEP como: Direcci6n General de
Personal, Direcci6n General Financiero, la Divisi6n de Planeamniento y Desarrollo Educativo, y el area
evaluaci6n.
Tres areas o subcomponentes fueron defmidas en este Componente: La elaboraci6n de manuales de
procedimnientos, la redefinici6n de procesos y el disefio, contrataci6n y puesta en marcha del Sistema de
- 27 -



Informaci6n Gerencial Interconectado entre las Regiones Educativas, denominado tambien "Informatica de
Gesti6n". Para las dos primeras areas, se disefiaron manuales de procedimientos y redisefno de procesos,
con enfasis en el Area de la administraci6n de los recursos humanos. La estrategia del desarrollo
organizacional, contribuy6 significativamente en el mejoramiento de la calidad de los servicios a los
educadores, la optimizaci6n del espacio fisico y la descentralizaci6n de importantes servicios a las regiones
educativas.
Se intervinieron Areas muy diversas: la Direcci6n General de Personal, y la Financiera, Procedimientos
legales, Divisi6n de Control de Calidad, el Kiosco de Informaci6n, el Consejo Nacional de Educaci6n
Superior Privada (CONESUP), Servicios Generales y la instalaci6n de una Contraloria de Servicios para
fortalecer y crear una cultura permanente de mediaci6n y control de la calidad de los servicios que deben
recibir los usuarios: educadores, familias, alumnos y el puiblico en general. Este componente estimul6 y
contribuy6 a integrar acciones y sirvi6 para acufiar el termino de intermediaci6n gerencial, incorporado en
la Politica Educativa vigente en Costa Rica.
En lo que respecta al Sistema de Informaci6n Gerencial Interconectado entre las Regiones Educativas, en el
primer concurso puiblico intemacional, pam la Contratacion Administrativa, luego de cuarenta meses, se
resolvi6 por la declaratoria "desierta".La pretensi6n de encontrar a un proveedor para que resolviera las
demandas de las 11 areas: Acciones de Personal, Planillas, Expedientes de Personal, Presupuesto, Juntas de
Educaci6n, Contabilidad, Suministros, Matricula, Administraci6n de Pruebas, Estadisticas Educativas y
Expedientes Estudiantiles y en todos sus componentes: sistemas, equipos, comunicaci6n y capacitaci6n,
result6 ser nada mas que una pretensi6n. Redefinida la estrategia, se logr6 adjudicar con todos sus
componentes, el sistema de Recursos Humanos, el cual se estA desarrollando, y ya los usuarios han iniciado
la recepci6n de los bienes y las capacitaciones en todos los niveles.
En el 2000, como consecuencia del acuerdo del Gobiemo de la Repuiblica de Costa Rica y el BID, se
replantearon las metas del subcomponente de informAtica de gesti6n. Se concluy6 que los unicos
componentes que se ejecutarian serian: el m6dulo de recursos humanos, la instalaci6n de la red de voz y
datos, el componente de comunicaci6n, carga de datos y compra de equipo informAtico, por lo que se
declararon desiertos los concursos para adquirir los sistemas de informaci6n financiero - contable y el de
calidad.
La participaci6n de los usuarios en la definici6n de requerimientos y en las especificaciones tecnicas de los
carteles y la ejecuci6n de los componentes, ha sido muy importantes para la institucionalizaci6n del
programa y la ejecuci6n de los componentes.
4.- El subcomponente de Infraestructura Fisica. Con el reforzamiento en la construcci6n y mejoramiento
de las instalaciones fisicas de otras regiones educativas.
* 390 escuelas nuevas
*   1.610 aulas rehabilitadas
*   100 aulas nuevas
*   290 servicios sanitarios reparados y 270 nuevos.
*   57 casas del maestro nuevas
*   63 comedores nuevos y 123 reparados
*   243 espacios administrativos nuevos
*   3 centros regionales nuevos
Otros logros especificos incluyen:
- 28 -



A partir de 1999, con la finalidad de racionalizar y maximizar los recursos, fomentar fuentes de empleo en
el nivel regional y asegurar mayor cobertura de las metas originales del Programa, se plante6 la imperiosa
necesidad de romper con la tendencia ascendente de los precios unitarios de la construcci6n de aulas y
promover mayor participacion de empresas en las licitaciones piublicas. Asi mismo, se valor6 otras
opiniones para que la administraci6n financiera de lo recursos y la contrataci6n administrativa estuvieran a
cargo,  fundamentalmente, de los representantes juridicos de las escuelas y colegios: las Juntas de
Educaci6n y Administrativas. Durante esta discusi6n y analisis de alternativas con la Representaci6n del
BID en San Jose, se recibian ofertas de los iutimos seis procesos licitatorios.
Como conclusi6n, se redefini6 el prototipo de aula, se declararon desiertos los seis procesos licitatorios y se
promulgaron nueve licitaciones. Se promovieron reuniones con nuevas empresas, se divulg6 la informaci6n
de los procesos licitatorios en los diarios de comunicaci6n escrita, y con ello, obtuvimos mayor
participaci6n y menores precios unitarios. Estas licitaciones, en su gran mayoria, ya fueron adjudicadas
con la perspectiva de que las construcciones se concluiran en el 2001. Concurrentemente, el programa
adquiri6 y distribuy6 38,649 pupitres y mobiliario para un sector de los docentes del pais. Se estima que al
final del pr6stamo 667-BID, el Programa habra construido y rehabilitado: 1524 aulas, 571 baterias
sanitarias, 55 comedores escolares, 4 casas para el maestro, 17 espacios administrativos, 1 laboratorio de
informatica, 2 bibliotecas y 3 sedes regionales.
Mayor detalle de los logros obtenidos durante la ejecuci6n del Programa, por componente y para ambos
prestamos, se puede consultar y conseguir informaci6n en el documento " Rendici6n de Cuentas: Informe
acumulado del desempeino programnAtico y financiero del Proyecto por su fuente de financiamiento al 31
diciembre del 2000", elaborado por el Director de la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto, sefior Carlos
Alberto Barrantes Rivera, en marzo del 2001, especificamente en el aparte de "Logros mAs importantes".
IV.    Desempefio de las Entidades Prestatarias
Esta experiencia fue bastante satisfactoria. Tanto el BID como el BIRF, por medio de sus gerentes de
proyectos y personal de desembolsos, establecieron buenas relaciones de colaboraci6n y coordinaci6n para
el desarrollo de los objetivos de los contratos prestamo. Un aspecto por considerar fue que los gerentes u
oficiales de los proyectos fueron sustituidos en varias oportunidades durante la ejecuci6n, tanto en el
financiamiento del BID como en el del BIRF, situaci6n que repercuti6 en tiempo, nuevos enfoques de
administraci6n y estilos de liderazgo para la ejecuci6n y aprobaci6n de actividades (no objeciones). No
obstante, lo anterior no tuvo incidencia en el tiempo total de ejecuci6n del Programa.
Las negociaciones previas para realizar actividades sustantivas de los componentes fueron fundamentales,
debido a que permitieron consenso entre el Banco y el ejecutor. Adenas las visitas peri6dicas y misiones de
las autoridades de estos organismos retroalimentan los procesos criticos y favorecen las relaciones
Banco-Pais. Hay que destacar la preocupaci6n permanente de la Representaci6n del BID en Costa Rica,
por capacitar recurrentemente a las funcionarios de la UCP, en diversos temas: adquisiciones, desembolsos,
gerencia, negociaci6n y otros. Esto ocurri6 en menor grado con el Banco Mundial y solamente en el area de
desembolsos.
El Banco Mundial, mostr6 una actitud permanente de comprensi6n, negociaci6n constructiva,
asesoramiento y sugerencias para darle valor agregado a la relaci6n. Cuando se necesit6 de la ayuda para
redefinir alcances de los componentes, la respuesta siempre fue la mas constructiva posible. En la relaci6n
con el Banco Mundial se destacan dos periodos, el primero supervisado por un primer Gerente de Proyecto,
hasta mediados de 1997 y el segundo, por el Gerente de Proyecto quien estuvo con el Proyecto hasta el final
de este. En este uiltimo periodo, el Programa alcanz6 los mayores niveles de ejecuci6n y de impacto. La
- 29-



actitud pro-activa y de apoyo del Gerente de Proyecto fue muy importante para el logro de estos niveles y el
impacto. (Una menci6n especial al consultor del Banco Mundial sefior Mario Marcone (q.d.D.g.), por sus
oportunos aportes y compromiso con el pais).
A otros niveles del Banco, el reconocimiento por el apoyo a la Direcci6n del Departamento para
Centroamerica, Oficina Regional de America Latina y el Caribe, a las oficinas de Direcci6n
Regional, y a las Oficinas de Adquisiciones y Desembolsoso, al igual que a los especialistas en
evaluaci6n que apoyaron los distintos estudios financiados por el Proyecto. De esta relaci6n, se
puede concluir que el sustento de la misma se bas6 en los principios humanos, de respeto mutuo y de gran
interes para que los bienes y servicios que produjera el Programa impactarA con equidad y calidad a la
educaci6n costarricense y a los habitantes de la Repuiblica de Costa Rica. El objetivo de la relaci6n se ha
cumplido, aun y cuando la tarea seguira siempre inconclusa, hasta que no se resuelvan en su totalidad los
nuevos y los viejos problemas de la educaci6n en Costa Rica.
V.     Perspectivas de Sostenibilidad
Este proceso consiste en la capacidad de una instituci6n o un proyecto para mantener, de forma indefinida,
actividades sustantivas que hayan repercutido en la calidad de los servicios educativos, de tal forna que al
agotarse el periodo y el financiamiento, se cuente con los recursos y la cultura necesarios para dar
seguimiento continuo a esas actividades y hacerlas parte del accionar normal de la instituci6n. El principal
aspecto es el politico, donde como se comento anteriormente, en forma recurrente las Administraciones
Arias Sanchez (1986-1990), Calder6n Foumier (1990-1994), Figueres Olsen (1994-1998), y Rodriguez
Echeverria (1998-2002), hicieron ingentes esfuerzos para mejorar la calidad y la equidad de la educaci6n
costarricense. En la actualidad, entre los potenciales presidentes de Costa Rica, para el periodo 2002 -
2006, han definido a la educaci6n como tema central, en un eventual gobiemo. Ello hace concluir que el
mejoramiento continuo, con visi6n de mediano plazo, seguira siendo el mejoramiento de la calidad y la
equidad de la educaci6n, lo que la convierte en Politica de Estado y no de Gobierno.
En la actualidad y como complemento al Programa de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n General
Basica (PROMECE), cuya cobertura principal fue la primaria y los tres primeros afios de secundaria, se
ejecuta un nuevo programa para seguir mejorando la equidad del sistema educativo. Este objetivo se
lograra mediante un mayor acceso y una mejor calidad y eficiencia intema en la educaci6n preescolar y el
tercer ciclo. Los beneficiarios seran la poblacion urbana de atencion prioritaria y la poblaci6n rural,
principalmente, en las zonas de menores ingresos, financiado por el BID, con un costo total de US$40
millones, y administrado por la misma Unidad Coordinadora del PROMECE.
Otro factor para lograr institucionalizar muchas acciones y actividades del proyecto, estA relacionado con la
asignaci6n de recursos presupuestarios y econ6micos a las diferentes divisiones del MEP que participaron y
llevaron a cabo aspectos sustantivos. Por consiguiente, es recomendable que las autoridades se
comprometan. Tal es el caso del Sistema de Informacion Gerencial para los Recursos Humanos, cuyos
resultados finales e impacto conllevan un periodo de tiempo para que los funcionarios poco a poco
adquieran la cultura facilitadora de las herramientas informAticas en su trabajo cotidiano. Un buen
ejemplo, es lo ocurrido con el programa de informatica educativa adquirido con recursos del BIRF, los
cuales hicieron que se diera un gran salto en el desarrollo educativo de la educacion secundaria con el uso
de nuevas y mejores tecnologias y que en la actualidad su cobertura es del 83.7% de los Colegios. Las
aulas construidas con recursos del proyecto reducieron el deficit existente, sin embargo, es preciso que se
establezcan y cumplan los planes de mantenimiento por parte del MEP, muy especificamente el Centro
Nacional de Infraestructura Escolar (CENIFE). Los libros de texto disefiados y producidos para el sistema
- 30 -



educativo, a pesar de la resistencia inicial, han sido aceptados. Con estos textos se han modernizado y
actualizado los contenidos de la educaci6n. Es importante mantener el Fondo Editorial con los recursos
necesarios para la continuidad y reimpresiones peri6dicas de estas obras. Ademas, por el tiempo
transcurrido es necesario prever una reedici6n parcial o total, con reimpresiones posteriores. Para la
sostenibilidad de las obras didacticas, es necesario mantener la ejecuci6n de actividades como capacitaci6n
continua a los actores involucrados: asesores regionales y nacionales, directores de desarrollo educativo y
docentes de las diversas materias basicas. Las actividades en desarrollo profesional y evaluaci6n, el
Ministerio de Educaci6n Publica, las ha asumido por medio del Centro Nacional de Didactica (CENADI) y
la Divisi6n de Macro Evaluaci6n. La Maestria en Evaluaci6n, se consolid6 en la Universidad de Costa
Rica (UCR) y continua vigente. El nuevo Programa para el Mejoramiento de la Calidad y la Expansi6n de
la Educaci6n Preescolar y el Tercer Ciclo, es una oportunidad real que tiene el Ministerio de Educaci6n
Puiblica, para consolidar areas, temas y actividades estrategicas del sistema.
VI. Lecciones Aprendidas
A continuacion se hacen destacar las experiencias aprendidas durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto con visi6n
de apliaciones a futuro.
A. Desarrollo y lecciones aprendidas de la etapa de aprobaci6n e inicio de implementaci6n.
*   Una lecci6n aprendida para el Ministerio de Educacion Publica fue la Excelente Coordinaci6n que
existi6 entre el personal tecnico y politico del MEP para la determinaci6n de los objetivos y la
formulaci6n de las propuestas para cada uno de los componentes del proyecto; esto como producto del
apoyo brindado por los altos jerarcas de la instituci6n para encontrar soluciones a los problemas del
sector y obtener el financiamiento de los Bancos. Asi mismo el enlace y discusi6n continuo con los
Bancos BID y BIRF lograron que se firmaran los convenios de pr6stamo rapidamente. No obstante lo
anterior, es importante expresar que en la etapa de discusi6n para la firma de futuros convenios, sea
considerada la opini6n de profesionales en el area administrativa y de adquisiciones, con el fin de
conformar las clausulas del convenio de acuerdo con los requerimientos del pais y necesidades basicas
para los Proyectos.
*   En cuanto a Institucionalizaci6n y Sostenibilidad se resalta la importancia de la participaci6n y la
coordinaci6n entre los componentes y las Unidades Ejecutoras, asi como identificar la capacidad
tecnica, funcional y de infraestructura en las regiones educativas con el objeto de determinar las
necesidades reales que se implementarian con la licitaci6n de informAtica de gesti6n y formular el plan
de desarrollo organizacional del MEP. Para analizar los resultados en este tema, se incluye dentro de
este informe un Capitulo VIII.
*   Con respecto a la Integrabilidad se enfatiza el apoyo de asistencia tecnica que apoye en (i) integrar las
actividades de capacitaci6n de los componentes del Programa para maximizar resultados y disminuir
costos, y en (ii) definir y aprobar un modelo de coordinaci6n tecnica que se aplicara para la ejecuci6n
de actividades de capacitaci6n y actualizaci6n.
*   Por otra parte, en el tema de la Evaluaci6n e Impacto una importante lecci6n realizar actividades en
relaci6n con los estudios de impacto de los componentes de mayor trascendencia como: infraestructura
fisica (selecci6n de escuelas), informatica educativa (laboratorios de informatica), desarrollo
profesional (formaci6n y capacitaci6n de docentes) y evaluaci6n educativa (pruebas escolares),
aprovechando incluso, para algunos de estos, la experiencia de los profesionales del MEP beneficiados
por la Maestria en Evaluaci6n, que el Programa financi6 con recursos del BIRF. Dentro de las acciones
- 31 -



tomadas por el Programa, se encuentra la Evaluaci6n del Impacto del Plan Piloto de los Laboratorios
de Informatica, realizado por la Universidad de Montreal en 1997 y 1998. Ademas, por medio de la
Universidad de Costa Rica se encuentra en ejecuci6n un estudio de Evaluaci6n Cualitativa de los
componentes de Desarrollo Profesional y Evaluaci6n Educativa con el objeto de medir el alcance e
impacto de los procesos de formaci6n y capacitaci6n de docentes para la educaci6n general basica.
Asimismo, las evaluaciones e investigaciones en el componente de Recursos para el Aprendizaje.
*   Una lecci6n clave adicional se relaciona con los aspectos de Diversificaci6n y Modernidad que se
definieron como estrategia para el plazo restante del proyecto, en el cual se amplio la introducci6n de
mayores recursos tecnol6gicos en el proceso de ensefianza, tales como Telematica, Internet y otros. Al
respecto se ejecutaron algunas actividades aprovechando la infraestructura y la capacidad instalada de
los laboratorios de informatica, para capacitar a los estudiantes y docentes en esta area, asi como la
coordinaci6n tecnica para la ejecuci6n de numerosas actividades en el nivel nacional en el tema de
Radio Interactiva.
*   La importancia de una Visi6n de Logro a partir de la Evaluaci6n de Medio Termino, la cual indic6
posibilidades para que el nivel de ejecuci6n fuera adecuado y garantizar que la permanencia de las
autoridades gubernamentales contribuyera a que el proyecto se implemente totalmente. El proyecto
logr6 una gran ejecuci6n de los recursos en el periodo 1995-2000, lo que le permiti6 contribuir,
ampliamente, con los objetivos planteados inicialmente, incluso algunos fueron superados y otros se
redefinieron y cumplieron sobre la marcha del proyecto, de acuerdo a las prioridades de la
administraci6n y Ministro de turno. Como consecuencia, las recomendaciones planteadas por los
responsables de la Evaluaci6n de Medio Termino, se redefinieron algunas actividades y se orientaron a
atender prioridades como obras civiles y su inspecci6n, cuyo monto inicial debia ser recalculado para
cubrir los costos actuales de las construcciones. Adems los procesos de formaci6n y capacitaci6n
tambien generaron movimientos entre las categorias, asi como la compra de mobiliario escolar,
ampliaci6n de cobertura de algunos componentes y el apoyo a programas innovadores y estrategias
para el desarrollo del pais. Estos cambios se reflejan las enmiendas aprobadas por el BID y el BIRF.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Public and Private Universities
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 32 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrx                   Projected in last PSR               ActuallLatest Estimate
A. Improvement in the Quality of Basic  - Evidence that 1992 through 1996 basic  Total Public Education Spending (as % of
Educabon                             educabon (grades 1-9) budget allocabons  GDP) increased from 4.8 in 1988 to 5.5 in
had increased in comparison to 1980s levels. the year 2000.
Curriculum Development               - The new curriculum for grades 1-9 should  - The curriculum was revised for grades 1-9.
be developed.                       - Teacher training programs have included
- The Regional Curriculum Plan should be  strategies for local adaptation of the
approved and effective in each of the six  curriculum.
regions.                            - For rural schools, local adaptation includes
- At least 30% of the zonal curriculum plan  strategies for multigrade teaching.
should be approved and effective in each
region.
Didactic Materials                   - Approximately 700,100 textbooks and  - Approximately 835,551 textbooks and
11,900 teacher guides should be produced  136,058 teacher guides were delivered for
for grades 1,4 and 7.                grades 1, 4 and 7.
- Approximately 644,200 textbooks and  - Approximately 772,804 textbooks and
10,900 teacher guides should be produced  118,803 teacher guides were delivered for
for grades 2, 5 and 8.               grades 2, 5 and 8.
- Approximately 548,100 textbooks and 9,700 - Approximately 704,668 textbooks and
teacher guides should be produced for  114,327 teacher guides were delivered for
grades 3, 6 and 9.                   grades 3, 6 and 9.
Teacher Training                     - A Plan for implementation of Teacher  - An integrated Teacher Certification program
Certificabon and upgrading programs should by three major universities was developed
be proposed and reviewed.            and implemented.
- A cumulative total of approximately 22,700  - 51,000 teachers received training provided
teacher upgrading courses shall have been  by the Project
taken.
Infrastructure                       - 3,400 classrooms would be rehabilitated  - 570 classrooms rehabilitated and 369 new
and 360 classrooms would be replaced or  classrooms were constructed.
constructed.                         - 64 new teacher houses were constructed
- 160 teacher houses would be constructed. and there was a rehabilitation of 22 existing
- 4 Regional centers would be constructed,  teacher houses.
and two regional centers would be    - 1 Regional Center was constructed and 3
rehabilitated.                       existing Regional Centers were remodeled.
- Evidence that all sites required for the  - 174 Sanitary unts were constructed and
construction of schools, regional centers and 141 existing Sanitary units were rehabilitated.
staff houses of following year work program  - 5 Administration School Offices were
have been secured and are available.  constructed and 41 existing were
rehabilitated.
- 60,255 student desks were supplied, to
equip approximately 1,721 classrooms (35
desks per classroom). Additionally, the
project provided 832 cabinets, desks and
chairs for 832 schools.
Other Infrastructure investments:
- 20 new school lunchrooms.
94 existing school lunchrooms were
rehabilitated.
Insttutional Strengthening           - Maintain PCU with functions, structure,  - PCU showed continuity in both staff and
staff, and characteristics agreed upon with  leaming.
the Bank, for the duration of the Project.  - Executive decree was pronounced and all
- Official publication of the execubve decree  six regional centers of the MEP are
giving effect to the education sector  operating.
regionalization.                     - Evaluation of the component showed
- Improved processes and procedures in  improved procedures, services timing, and
divisions intervened by the Project.  client (teacher) orientation in the Personnel
Department intervened by the Project.
Student Evaluation and Testing      - Diagnostic tests for grade I carried out by  - Diagnostic testing for Grade 1 was carried
IIMEC, by December 31 of each year,  out, especially for reading comprehension.
- 33 -



1993-96.                             - Diagnostic testing for grades 3 (end of first
- Assessment tests for grades 3 and 9  cyde) and grades 9 (en of third cycle) was
caried out by IIMEC, by December 31 of  carried out and continues to date.
each year, 1993-96.                  Certification testing for grade 6 (end of
- Certification test for grade 6 carried out by  second cycle) was carried out and continues
IIMEC, by December 31 of each year,  to date.
1993-96.
Evaluation of Status and Needs in Secondary - Plan and Terms of Reference for the  - 5 comprehensive studies were financed,
Educabon                              Secondary Education Study.           completed, published and fed-back into the
- Secondary Education Study.          education system, providing basis for policy
development for secondary education.
Improvement in the Quality of Secondary  - The evaluation study of the primary  - Positive results of the impact evaluabon
Academic Education                    educabon computer project and the    carried out by the University of Montreal.
implementation plan acceptable to the Bank  - Expansion phase of pilot carried out so far
for the computer-based education component in 80% of total number of secondary schools.
in secondary schools.
Overall project Implementation        - Action Plan based on the results of  - Mid-term evaluations, action plans and
mid-term implementation review by    annual project reviews carried out through
December 31, 1994.                   project life.
- Preparation of a work plan and budget for
the following fiscal year.
- Annual project review by September of each
year.
*Baseline means the information available in the country at the moment of the beginning of the project.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Overall Management                    - Establish the PCU                  - PCU established
- Develop standard bidding documents and  - Standard bidding documents and contracts
contracts for civil works, goods and  for civil works, goods and consultants
consultants.                          developed.
- Set up a Special Account            - Special Account set.
- Conduct Annual Implementation Review  - Annual Implementation Review
- Conduct Mid Term Review             implemented.
Contract independent auditor          - Mid Term Review implemented.
Independent auditor contracted for each
fiscal year.
Teacher Training                      - 2928 Long-term training, grades 1-6 (two  - Caried out and surpassed original goals by
years)                                200%.
- 1549 Long-term training, grades 7-9 (one
year)
- 6500 Upgrading training - First Cycle
- 6132 Upgrading training - Second Cycle
- 4028 Upgrading training - Third Cycle
- 1411 Multi-grade Teacher Training
- 180 Bilingual Teacher Training
Infrastructure                       - 1870 School rehabilitation          -570 School rehabilitation classrooms
- 420 New construction and substitution  - 369 New construction and substitution
- 1 Regional Office construction      - I Regional Office construction
- 2 Regional Office rehabilitation    - 3 Regional Office rehabilitation
- 174 new sanitary services
- 141 sanitary services rehabilitation
- 20 new lunch rooms
- 94 lunch rooms rehabilitation
- 64 new teacher houses
- 22 teacher houses rehabilitation
- 5 new Administrative Offices
- 41 Administrative Offices rehabilitation
Evaluation System                    - Sign Contract with IIMEC            - Caried out.
- Equip IIMEC and MEP Evaluation Unit
- Conduct training for MEP staff
- Offer scholarships to three MEP staff
- Develop standardized tests
- Pilot test system
- Administer test (1 st grade)
- 34 -



- Analyze data
- Disseminate results
- Administer test (3rd and 9th grade)
- Analyze data
- Disseminate results
- Administer test (6th grade)
- Analyze data
- Disseminate results
Administrative decentralization       - Develop and deliver training programs  - Caried out.
- Plan redeployment of staff
- Redeploy staff
- School time utilization study
- School time utilization action plan
preparation
Secondary Education Study             - Prepare TORs and sign Contract     - Carried out.
- Carry out study
- Implement recommendations
Secondary Education Computer Pilot    - Purchase and install 400 Computer  - Carded out.
Program                               Equipment
- Revise curriculum for pilot schools
Evaluate Program
End of project
- 35 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million  US$ million
A. Quality of Basic Education                       44.40          50.90           1.15
B. Sector Planning and Management                    7.70           7.71             1
C. Quality of Secondary Education                    1.70          2.52            1.48
Total Baseline Cost                                 53.80          61.13
Physical Contingencies                              2.00           0.20           0.1
Price Contingencies                                 5.70           0.17           0.02
Total Project Costs             61.50         61.50
Total Financing Required             61.50          61.50
US$377,868 dollars from physical and price contingencies were not used and cancelled at time of loan closing.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB          NCB         Other2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          3.20         9.10         14.50       26.80
(0.00)       (2.50)        (7.10)       (0.00)      (9.60)
2. Goods                     3.00          0.80         0.20         9.60        13.60
(1.30)       (0.20)        (0.10)       (0.00)      (1.60)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         1.60         11.90        13.50
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.70)       (7.70)      (8.40)
4. Miscellaneous and         0.00          0.00         0.00         7.60         7.60
Operating Costs
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (3.40)      (3.40)
Total                      3.00         4.00         10.90        43.60        61.50
(1.30)       (2.70)        (7.90)      (11.10)      (23.00)
- 36 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actua/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB            Other'          N.B.F.       T9tal Cost
1. Works                            0.00             10.30           0.30            14.70          25.30
(0.00)           (8.60)          (0.30)          (0.00)          (8.90)
2. Goods                             2.50            1.10            0.10            8.50            12.20
(2.10)           (0.82)          (0.10)          (0.00)          (3.02)
3. Services                         0.30             0.30            10.10           9.20            19.90
(0.30)           (0.30)         (10.10)          (0.00)         (10.70)
4. Miscellaneous and                 0.00            0.00            0.00            4.10            4.10
Operating Costs
(0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                            2.80            11.70            10.50           36.50          61.50
(2.40)           (9.72)         (10.50)          (0.00)         (22.62)
Note 1: US$377,868 dollars from physical and price contingencies were not used and cancelled at time of loan closing.
Note 2: N.B.F column includes the distribution of proceeds from the IDB loan, which has not closed yet; thus allocations represent only most recent
estimates.
11 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component                 Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Estimate      I
Bank       Govt.       CoF.       Bank        Govt.      CoF.     Bank    Govt.    CoF.
Curriculum Development       0.00       0.60       2.40       0.00        0.70       3.90       0.0    116.7   162.5
Didactic Materials           0.00       0.30       9.00        0.00       0.12       6.12       0.0    40.0    68.0
Teacher Training            10.10       0.00       0.00        8.17       0.23                 80.9     0.0     0.0
Infrastructure               9.10       5.90       13.80      10.12       4.34       11.02     111.2   73.6    79.9
Institutional Strenghtening  1.10       3.40       2.80        1.10       2.59       3.00      100.0   76.2    107.1
Evaluation                   1.00       0.10       0.00        1.10       0.56       0.00      110.0   560.0    0.0
Secondary Education          1.70       0.20       0.00       2.13        0.23       0.00      125.3   115.0    0.0
Quality Improvement
SUBTOTAL
Operation Expenses                                                        1.76       3.96
TOTAL                       23.00       10.50      28.00      22.62       10.53      28.00     98.3    100.3   100.0
Loan Cancelation                                               0.38
Note 1: US$377,868 dollars from physical and price contingencies were not used and cancelled at time of loan closing.
Note 2: IDB loan has not closed yet and component allocations represent here most recent estimates.
- 37 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic analysis was undertaken in the SAR and, thus, no NPV or ERR was reported. The SAR
qualified the expected benefits of the project, which included: (i) rehabilitation of known inputs to improve
the quality of teaching and learning (curriculum, educational materials, teacher training and appropriate
school infrastructure), (ii) reduced repetition and dropout rates, (iii) and reduced delays in the services
provided by the MEP through improved administrative processes, monitoring systems and computerized
information systems. For the purpose of defining ex-post an economic return marker for the Project, the
best indicator would be the reductions in dropout and repetition rates. During project implementation
repetition rates were reduced in primary education (grades 1-6) by 3.8 percentage points (from 12% to
8.2%) and in lower secondary education (grades 7-9) by 6.2 percentage points (from 15% to 8.8%). This
net decrease in percentage of students who repeated a grade, by the end of the Project, saved financial
resources at the Basic Education Level in comparison to the baseline data collected before Project
implementation (when a higher number of students repeated grades and, thus, additional financial
student/year resources had to be provided in order for repeating students to complete all nine years of Basic
Education). Thus, the per student cost to provide basic education, during the year 2000, was reduced by
3.8% in grades 1-6 and by 6.2% in grades 7-9, in comparison to the year 1989.
- 38 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
December 1989               6   Education Specialist
Economists
Procurement Specialist
Consultants
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 1991                   6   Economist, Consultants,
Education Specialists
Supervision
01/1992,                    2   Education Specialists             S            S
S            S
06/1992                     1   Education Specialists             S            S
06/1993                     2   Education Specialists             S            S
09/1993                     2   Education Specialists             S            S
09/1994                     2   Education Specialists             S            S
02/1995                     2   Education Specialists and         S             S
Procurement Specialists
06/1995                     4   Education Specialists,            S             S
Procurement Procurement
Analysis
01/1996                    2   Education and Procurement         S             S
Analyst
05/1996                     I   Education Specialist              S             S
08/1996                     2   IADB Education Specialist,        S             S
Education Specialis
05/1997                     1   Procurement Specialist            S             S
12/1997                     3   Resident Mission Representative,  S             S
Procurement Analyst,
Institutional Development
Specialist
03/1998                     3   Institutional Development         S             S
Specialist, Consultants, Financial
Management Consultant
09/1998                     5   Consultants, Financial            S             S
Management Consultant,
Education Specialist
07/1999                     4   Education Specialist,             S             S
Consultants, Secondary
Education Specialist
09/1999                     3   Education Specialist, Consultants  S            S
01/2000                     3   Education Lead Specialist,                      S
Institutional Development,
Education Specialist
ICR
- 39 -



01/2000                    3    Institutional Development        S            S
Specialist, Education Sector
Manager, Education
Specialist
09/2000                    1    Institutional Development        S            S
. ______________  Specialist
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation            115.5                 459,900.00
Appraisal/Negotiation                  56.9                 238,800.00
Supervision                          109.72                1,606,953.00
ICR                                    1.06                  20,590.71
Total                                266.62                2,326,243.71
-40 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                                    O H OSUOM ON *NA
O Sector Policies                                   OH *SUOM ON ONA
0 Physical                                          *H OSUOM ON ONA
O Financial                                         O H OSUOM ON ONA
C] Institutional Development                        0   H   O  SU O   M   O  N    O  NA
Li Environmental                                     O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
[ Poverty Reduction                         O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Gender                                    O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)                    O H OSUOM O N O NA
L Private sector development                        0 H O SU O M          0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management                          0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                            O H OSUOM O N O NA
Note: Although the Project was not part of the Poverty Reduction Investment Program, it did target provinces and towns with
low Social Development Indicators. Overall the project was very successful in its contributions to improve education
indicators nationwide. However, in the areas with lowest socio-economic indicators, the results were more conservative: school
access increased and early drop-out was reduced, but challenges in the area of promotion and learning continued. Thus, a
modest (M) rating for Poverty Reduction was assigned. In retrospect, central driven education inputs (such as school
infrastructure and educational materials) needed to be complemented with demand-side interventions to address holistically the
needs of poor and excluded families, youth and children, such as financial support to poor families, social programs for
at-risk-youth and single mothers, and community development programs.
-41 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactoiy)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
F Lending                                          OHS OS       OU     OHU
* Supervision                                       OHS OS      OU     OHU
0 Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
2 Preparation                                      OHS OS       OU     0 1IU
J Government implementation performance            OHS O S      O U    0 HU
J Implementation agency performance                OHS *S       O U    O HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
-42 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
A. Preparation and Appraisal Documents
Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo; Costa Rica: Programa para el Mejoramiento de la Calidad
Educativa, Informe de Projecto; May 1991.
World Bank, Staff Apprisal Report, Costa Rica: Basic Education Rehabilitation Project; October 18,
1991.
B. Mid-Term Evaluation Documents
Barahona, Juan Carlos and Chavez, Luis; Informe de Evaluacion del Componente de Fortalecimiento
Institucional, PROMECE, San Jose, Costa Rica, September 1995.
Barrantes, Carlos Alberto; Resultados de la Evaluacion de Medio Periodo del Programa de
Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educacion General Basica: Informe Consolidado; Ministerio de
Educacion Publica, PROMECE, San Jose, Costa Rica, January 1996.
Gallard, Alejandro Jose; Evaluacion  de Medio  Termino:   Mejoramiento  de la Educacion
Secundaria-Pertinencia de la Educacion Secundaria Publica en Costa Rica e Informatica Educativa;
September 1995.
Gragirena Camacho, Jenry; Informe de Evaluacion de Medio Periodo: Area Gerencial del Proyecto; San
Jose, Costa Rica, November 1995.\
Gramaglia, Guillermo and Lemke, Donald; Mision de Evaluacion de Medio Termino: Adecuacion
Curricular, Recursos para el Aprendizaje y Desarrollo Profesional; December 1995.
Martinez Rodriguez, Felix; Evaluacion de Medio Termino: Componente Evaluacion Escolar (Pruebas);
San Jose, Costa Rica, October 1996.
PROMECE; Informe de Evaluacion del Componente de Infraestructura; San Jose, Costa Rica, September
1995.
Rodriguez Oviedo, Rose Mary and Solis Sanchez, Norma; Actidud del Estudiante hacia la Educacion
Secundaria Publica; San Jose de Costa Rica, April 1995.
Solis Sanchez, Norma; Pertinencia de la Educacion Secundaria en Costa Rica; San Jose de Costa Rica,
December 1994.
C. Project Closing and Evaluation of Impact Documents
Barrantes, Carlos Alberto; Informe Acumulado de Seguimiento del Desempeno Programatico y
Financiero del Proyecto por su Fuente de Financiamiento al 31 de Diciembr3, 1999; Ministerio de
Educacion Publica, PROMECE, San Jose, Costa Rica, March 2000.
Barrantes, Carlos Alberto; Informe Acumulado de Seguimiento del Desempeno Programatico y
Financiero del Proyecto por su Fuente de Financiamiento al 31 de Diciembre del 2000; Ministerio de
-43 -



Educacion Publica, PROMECE, San Jose, Costa Rica, March 2001.
Chavarria Navas, Soleda; Paniagua Padilla, Maria Eugenia; and Quesada Zaldivar, Sheila; La Politica
Educativa Hacia El Siglo X: Propuestas y Realizaciones; Ministerio de Educacion Publica, 1998.
Ministerio de Educacion Publica de Costa Rica; Informe Nacional de las Pruebas Nacionales de
Conclusion del Segundo Ciclo de la Educacion General Basica: 1999; San Jose, Costa Rica, October
1999.
Ministerio de Educacion Publica de Costa Rica; Informe Nacional de las Pruebas Nacionales de la
Educacion Formal 1999: Tercer Ciclo; San Jose, Costa Rica, October 1999.
Ministerio de Educacion Publica de Costa Rica; Informe Nacional de las Pruebas Nacionales de la
Educacion Formal 2000: Bachillerato; San Jose, Costa Rica, November 2000.
Ministerio de Educacion Publica de Costa Rica; Guia Practica para Planificar las Lecciones: Con los
Programas de Estudio, Fichas Didacticas y Serie Hasta el Siglo XX, Iy II Ciclo; San Jose, Costa Rica,
2000.
Ministerio de Educacion Publica de Costa Rica, Division de Control de la Calidad; Estudio Sobre la
Correlacion de los Resultados de las Pruebas de Bachillerato en la Educacion Media Aplicadas en 1999,
y El Rendimiento de los Estudiantes en el Ciclo Diversificado; San Jose, Costa Rica, Febrero 2000.
Picado Martinez, Marta; Resumen Ejecutivo del Componente de Evaluacion; Ministerio de Educacion
Publica, PROMECE, San Jose, Costa Rica, November 1997.
Picado Martinez, Marta; Resumen Ejecutivo de Tareas Realizadas y Logros: CENE-EDU; Republica de
Costa Rica, Consejo Superior de Educacion, Centro Nacional de Evaluacion para la Educacion; San Jose,
April 1998.
Picado Martinez, Marta; Informe Final de Responsabilidades, Transicion, Presupuesto, Tareas y Logros,
y Resume Ejecutivo; Consultoria de Curriculum y Evaluacion; San Jose, Costa Rica, April 1998.
PROMECE; Minutas 1991-2000; Ministerio de Educacion Publica, San Jose, Costa Rica, December
2000.
SINERGIA; El Cambio Hacia la Cultura de la Calidad; Ministerio de Educacion Publica, PROMECE,
San Jose, Costa Rica, February 1997.
Solis Sanchez, Norma; Egresados de la Educacion Secundaria Publica: Logros Ocupacionales y
Educativos; San Jose de Costa Rica, December 1994.
Universidad de Costa Rica; Analisis, Conclusiones y Recomendaciones del Componente de Desarrollo
Profesional; San Jose, Costa Rica, September 2000.
Universidad de Costa Rica; Analisis, Conclusiones y Recomendaciones del Componente de Evaluacion
Escolar; San Jose, Costa Rica, September 2000.
Universidad de Costa Rica; Diseno de Investigacion; San Jose, Costa Rica, September 2000.
- 44 -



Universidad de Costa Rica; Resumen Ejecutivo; Programna de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educacion
General Basica; San Jose, Costa Rica, September 2000.
Universite de Montreal; Evaluacion del Impacto del Componente de Informatica de PROMECE; San
Jose, Costa Rica, April 1998.
-45 -



Additional Annex 8. Status of Legal Covenants
Table 1: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Covena Present    Original  Revised  Description of Covenant    Comments
/Section     nt Type Status    Fulfillment Date
Date
3.02 (a)     10      Complied  Annually           Prepare annual progress reports Reviewed during
with                         on project implementation   supervision
3.02 (b)     13      Complied  Annually            Prepare annual work programs  Reviewed during
with                                                     supervision
3.02 (c)     5                 09/30/1992          Annual Work Plan
3.04         13      Complied  Annually            Evidence that all sites required  All infrastructure program
with                         for construction of schools,  complied with covenant
regional centers and staff
houses of following year work
program have been secured and
are available
3.05 (a)     10      Complied  08/07/94   03/07/95  Present a proposed plan for  Delay related to Integration
with after                   implementation of teacher   of training plan to be
delay                        certification and upgrading  followed by all participating
programs                    universities.
3.05 (b)     5       Complied  09/30/1992          Review of Annual Work Plan  Reviewed annually during
with                                                     supervisions
3.07 (a)     09      Complied  08/07/95            Provide Terms of Reference for
with                         a mid-term evaluation
3.07 (b)     09      Complied  08/09/95            Cany out mid-term evaluation
- - -  w ~~~ith
3.07 (c)     10      Complied  05/08/96            Prepare and implement an   Positive changes in project
with                         action plan based on results of  performance after mid-term
the mid-term review         evaluation
3.08 (a)     13      Complied  06/30/92            Prepare Terms of Reference for
with                         study on use of school time
3.08 (b)     13      Complied  06/30/92            Carry out study on use of school
with                         time
3.08 (c)     10      Complied  09/30/93           Implement recommendations on
with                         use of school time
3.09         9        Complied  08/30/92           Present list containing types and Incorporated into annual
with                         timing of student testing and  learning evaluations
evaluation activities
3.10 (a)     13      Complied  06/30/92   2/02/93  Present a plan and terms of  Delays in project launching
with after                   reference for secondary
delay                         education study
3.10 (b)     9       Complied  12/15/95            Present results of secondary  All five studies completed.
with                         education study
3.11         5       Complied  06/30/1995          Study of the achievement of
with                         Students
3.12         3       Complied  Annually            Government to allocate annual
with                         budgets for proposed education
investments.
4.01 (b) 2 (i)  1     Complied  06/30/1994         Annual Audit Report        Annual submission of audits
with
4.01 (c) 2 (i)  1     Complied  04/29/2002 10/16/200 Last Audit Report         Last audit's due date set for
with                 1                                   after loan closing
6.02         10      Complied  03/09/1992 02/09/199 Effectiveness conditions  Delays experienced and
with after          3                                    extension requested by
delay                        I                           I Govt.
- 46 -



Additional Annex 9. Quality at Entry Elements
ELEMENTS CONSIDERED IN THE DESIGN OF THE PROJECT
Consistency with Country's Development Goals
The preparation of the Project was directly linked to the governmental policies (Plan General
de Educaci6n, 1990-1994) designed to restore the quality, relevance and efficiency of public
education in the country after the devastating downturns experienced during the 1980s. The
Project contained several education quality improvement interventions: curriculum revisions,
instruction materials, teacher training, evaluations of student achievement and school
infrastructure. The Project also supported the country's educational policies by strengthening
the planning and management of the education sector. To provide a nexus between basic
education and the secondary education levels, the Project provided resources for a
comprehensive needs assessment at this level and for a computer-assisted education pilot for
secondary education schools.
Clarity of Project Objectives and Key Performance Indicators
The project design had clear objectives and key performance indicators. Improved education
quality was to be measured by increments in the national standardized test scores in the four
core subject areas (Spanish, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies). Improved school
efficiency would be indicated by reduced repetition and dropouts rates. Improved planning and
management efficiency by the Ministry of Education would be shown by decreasing the time
required for personnel administration processes and services to clients. The outcomes of the
secondary education interventions would include guaranteeing the input of Project-financed
studies into the planning process of secondary education reforms and a positive external
evaluation of the impact (both qualitative and quantitative) of the computer-assisted education
pilot.
Consideration of Fiscal Impact
The design team analyzed comprehensively education sector expenses, budgets, and the
Project's recurrent expenditures for infrastructure maintenance and university-certified teacher
salaries (see annex 10, 13, 14 and 15 of Staff Appraisal Report, SAR). By the end of the Project,
the target was to increase to at least 8.5% the budgetary allocations to cover these new recurrent
expenditures.
Institutional Assessment and Capacity Building
Project design placed special attention on management change and organizational development,
interventions not usually included in Bank projects of the early 1990s. This pioneer emphasis on
specific institutional strengthening strategies had positive impact on Project implementation.
Consideration of Poverty Reduction and Other Social Impacts
Project design used extensively Indicators of Social Development (Indicadores de Desarrollo
Social, IDS) by regional areas to identify and target those provinces most in need (see Annex 7
of SAR). Furthermore, the infrastructure component targeted those provinces with the least IDS
classification, mainly Puriscal, San Carlos, Nicoya, Canas, Puntarenas, Coto and Guapiles.
Risk Analysis
Project preparation defined specific strategies to minimize risks regarding: (i) timely availability
of counterpart funds, and (ii) the implementation capacity of the MEP. Project design
guaranteed a steady provision of loan funds (from both IBRD and IDB) for critical project
activities, reserving Government counterpart funds for rising incremental costs generated by
the Project. An account for project counterpart funds, managed directly by the PCU,
guaranteed financial liquidity. As for Project implementation capacity, the only risk minimizing
activity identified at the time of project design was the freezing of nonessential posts and the
reassigning of staff from the center to the regional offices.
- 47 -



Additional Annex 10. Programmed and Achieved Targets of Project Subcomponents
Table 1: Activities Programmed and Achieved Targets of the Curriculum Development Subcomponent
Activity                                 Programmed          Achieved Goal         Percentage
Goal                                  Achieved
Training
Courses                                 24                   28                 117
International Consultants               24                   8                  33
National Consultants                  11,200               11,200               100
Integration of areas to the currculum            4                   4                  100
Impact of curriculum development
Materials for training                81,000              379,000               468
Acquisition of tape recorders            25                  25                 100
Demonstrative Schools
Selection                                18                  18                 100
Equipment                                18                  18                 100
Studies/Research                        6                     4                  67
Source: Barrantes, Cartos. 'Accumulative Monitorng Report on Project Financial and Programmatic Performance Program by
Financial Sources'. PROMECE, MEP, Dec. 31,2000.
Table 2: Activities and Programmed Achieved Targets of the Instructional Materials Component
ACTIVITY                   Programmed Goal   Achieved Goal      Porcentage of
_ A;hbvd       _
Printed Materials
Textbooks                                      1.892.400        2,532,036           134
Teacher Guides                                  32,500           379,668            1168
Workbooks                                      3,800,000        2,370,280            62
Pamphlets for teachers                          34,759           76,000             219
Posters for the use of textbooks                71,500            63,000             88
Creation of the Revolving Fund (Fondo Editorial)   1                1               100
Regional Centers for Learning (CRA)
Set of materials for CRA                         3,397            4,000             118
Training in the use of materials                  436             24,299            5573
Assessment Studies                                 2                3               150
Aditional Activities
Materials for training                                           249,455
Pamphlets in newspaper                                             40
Didactic flash cards                                            30,277,575
Source: Barrantes, Carlos, *Informe acumulado de seguimiento del desempeflo Programatico y Financiero por fuentes de
flnanciamiento al 31 de diciembre del 2000; MEP, March 2001.
-48 -



Table 3: Activities Programmed and Achieved Targets of the Teacher Training Com       onent
Program Type             Programmed Goal    Achieved Goal   Percentage Achieved
Accreditation       and
Specialization
Aspirantes                     3, 747          2,544                68
Maestros con                    673             926                138
Experiencia
ACTUAUZACION
In-Service Courses            15, 059          46,702               310
Multigrado Teachers           1,411             1,396                99
TOTAL                         20, 890           51, 568              246
Teachers Trained                           I
Tabl 4: Physical Target of the Education Infrastructure Subcomponent
New and Relacements  _                              Rehabilitation
Class  Sanit.   lunch  teacher  Admi  regions  class   sanit.  lunch    teacher  admin   Regions
Rooms   Service  room  houses   n              rooms    service  rooms   houses
SAR     137      17      0      55      0       1       695     321       0        0      34      2
Proje   369      174    20 u.   64      5 u.    1       570      141      94      22      41      3
ct
total  269%     1023%    -     116%           100%     82%      43%       -              120%    150%
impl.                    _
93-95  129%     564%    14 u.   81%     3 u.   0%       62%      30%     67 u.    11 U.   114%    0%
96-97   0%       0%     0%      0%      0%     0%       0%       0%      0%       0%      0%      50%
incre   52%     448%    6 u.   30%     2 u.    100%    24%      30%      27 u.   11 u.    5%     66%
m.   __  _ _  _ _  _   _  _                   _ _ _  _ _  _    _ _ _   _ _ _     _ __          _ __ _
Table 5: Physical/Financial Progress of the Education Infrastructure
Subcomponent
Period       Financial progress    Physical progress    Physical/Financial
(average)             (average)
92-97              76%                   140%               184/100
92-00              98%                  237.8%              242/100
-49 -



Table 6: Student Evaluation and Testing Activities and Products
Subcomponent Activities                                 PRODUCTS
Expand Leaming Evaluation Testing for First Grade  Diagnosis of First Grade Leaming and Physical Aptitudes (5,078
Students                                     students)
Design, Reproduce, and Implement National Tests for Diagnosis of 3rd and 6th grades in Science and Social Studies
3rd, 6th, and 9th Graders.                   11,932 students) and for 9th grade in Spanish, Social Studies,
Mathematics, and Science (6,845 students)..
Design, Apply, analyze, and Provide Feedback on  National Testing of more than 135,000 students in 6th, 9th, and
Diagnostic and Accreditation Testing.        11th grade.
Regional workshops for Training and Feedback.  40 workshops.
Leaming Evaluation Master Program            Professionalization of MEP's Human Resources (centrally and
regionally), graduating 44 Masters in Education Evaluation (almost
100% of graduates continue to work in the sector: I0 in the
evaluation unit, 25 in central and regional offices, and the rest in
schools)
Table 7: Schools Partic-pating in the Computer-Assisted Education Pilot
Secondary Education Schools with Technology Laboratories
Financed by the Costa Rica Basic Education Project
Laboratories with  Liceo de Paraiso, Colegio Tecnico de Pococi, Uceo de Coronado, Instituto de Guanacaste, Uiceo
36 computer       Nuevo de Lim6n, Liceo Diurno de Esparza
Terminals
Laboratories with  Liceo Nuevo de Hatillo, Instituto Clodomiro Picado (Turrialba), Colegio de San Isidro de Heredia, Liceo
20 Computer       Maurilio Alvarado, Liceo de Atenas, Liceo de Santo Domingo, Liceo Miguel Araya, Liceo de Po6s,
Terminals         Liceo Regional de Flores, Liceo del Sur.
Laboratories with  Liceo de Chacarita, Colegio de Cedros, Liceo de Puriscal, Liceo de Quepos.
18 Computer
Terminals
Laboratories with  Instituto Clodomiro Picado, CPT Nicoya, Humberto Mellioni, Liceo UNESCO, CPT Los Chiles, Colegio
15 Computer       la Aurora, CPT Puerto Jimenez, Liceo de Quepos, CTPA Puerto Viejo, CPT Talamanca, Liceo Cardos
Terminals         Pascua, Liceo Regional de Flores, Manuel Benavides, Liceo Curridabat, Liceo Nuevo de Hatillo.
- 50-



-51 -



