Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3414 CR
(Basic Education Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 9, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3414 CR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 9, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from Inter-American Development Bank 
(IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to $28,000,000 to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the IDB 
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and IDB; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Annual Work Plan" means a plan containing the activities to be carried 
out under the Project in the respective subsequent calendar year, scheduled by month, 
and the respective budget for the carrying out of such activities;
(b)
"Banco Central" means the Central Bank of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"Colones" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(d)
"IIMEC" means Instituto de Investigacion para el Mejoramiento de la 
Educacion Costarricense, the Research Institute for the Improvement of Education in 
Costa Rica;
(e)
"Management Information System" means a system involving computer 
hardware and software (at both central and regional levels) for data entry and 
processing of information concerning the MEP's (as hereinafter defined) personnel 
management, budgetary and financial control, education statistics and education 
evaluation, supervision and administration;
(f)
"MEP" means Ministerio de Educacion Publica, the Borrower's Ministry of 
Public Education;
(g)
"MEP Decree" means the decree, satisfactory to the Bank, to be issued by 
the Borrower providing for the regionalization and decentralization of the Borrower's 
education sector;
(h)
"PCU" means the project coordination unit to be established within MEP 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(i)
"Project Account" means the project account to be established by the 
Borrower, through MEP, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement; and
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty-three million dollars 
($23,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Banco Central in dollars a special deposit account on terms and conditions 
Page  3
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Minister of Public Education of the Borrower or such other 
person or persons as such Minister shall appoint in writing are designated as 
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Page  4
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MEP, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate educational, administrative, engineering, financial and economic 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) hereof, the 
Borrower shall: (i) maintain in Banco Central a separate account, in Colones, in the 
name of MEP (the Project Account), for the exclusive purpose of making payments out of 
such account to meet expenditures incurred in respect of the Project; and (ii) 
replenish the Project Account, every three-month period, with an amount in Colones 
sufficient, in the opinion of the Bank, to finance the counterpart expenditures for 
the Project for each following six-month period, out of the Borrower's own resources 
other than the Loan or the IDB Loan.
Section 3.02. The Borrower, through MEP, shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank, by not later than June 30 in each year, starting in 
1993, a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, containing an 
assessment of the progress in the carrying out of the Project in the preceding fiscal 
year;
(b)
furnish to the Bank, by August 31 in each year, starting in 1992, the 
proposed Annual Work Plan for the following fiscal year, for the Bank's review and 
comment;
(c)
review, by September 30 in each year, starting in 1992, together with the 
Bank, such proposed Annual Work Plan and the progress in the carrying out of the 
Project, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, such review 
to include, inter alia: (i) an analysis of the Borrower's performance and budget 
allocation in respect of the Project in the previous year; and (ii) an analysis of the 
progress achieved in the decentralization of the  activities carried out by MEP; and
(d)
immediately thereafter, revise such Annual Work Plan, taking into account 
the Bank's comments thereon.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, in respect of houses to be constructed under 
Part A.6 of the Project, take all action necessary to ensure that such houses shall be 
occupied by either: (i) teachers holding qualification certificates or university 
teaching degrees (not less than diplomado), satisfactory to the Bank; or (ii) other 
teachers, provided, however, that such other teachers, prior to occupying any such 
house, shall have entered into a formal agreement with the Borrower, through MEP, 
assuming the obligation to undertake certification training course, preferably outside 
the teachers working hours, such formal agreement to be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, in respect of the land for each construction 
site required for the carrying out of Parts A.5, A.6 and A.7 of the Project, provide 
to the Bank evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, as part of the Annual Work Plan, that 
it holds a legal title to such land or that it has a right to build thereon.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) by not later than August 31 in each year, 
starting in 1992, furnish to the Bank a proposed plan for the implementation of the 
teacher certification and upgrading programs under Part A.3 of the Project;
(b)
review, together with the Bank, during each Project implementation review 
to be carried out in accordance with Section 3.02 (c) above, such proposed plan; and
(c)
immediately thereafter, revise such plan, taking into account the Bank's 
comments thereon.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, throughout the duration of the Project, 
maintain the PCU, within MEP, with functions, structure, staff, and characteristics 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower, through MEP, shall: (a) furnish to the Bank, by not 
Page  5
later than a date twenty-eight months after the Effective Date, terms of reference for 
a mid-term Project implementation review for comments, and incorporate therein the 
Bank's comments, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; (b) carry out, by not later 
than a date thirty months after the Effective Date, such mid-term Project 
implementation review, in accordance with the terms of reference referred to in 
paragraph (a) above, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) prepare, within 
three months of completion of such mid-term Project implementation review, an action 
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, taking into account the results of such review, and 
implement the same, in a manner and in accordance with a time frame satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) by not later than June 30, 1992, furnish 
to the Bank terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out of the 
study referred to in Part B.5 of the Project;
(b)
by not later than June 30, 1993, carry out and furnish to the Bank the 
study referred to in paragraph (a) above;
(c)
by not later than September 30, 1993, prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, based on the recommendations of the study 
referred to in paragraph (a) above; and
(d)
thereafter, carry out such plan of action in accordance with a time frame 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall present to the Bank, by not later than 
September 30, 1992, a list containing the types and timing of the student testing and 
evaluation activities referred to in Part B.4 of the Project, to be performed by MEP, 
such list to be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall: (a) by not later than June 30, 1992, furnish 
to the Bank terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, for the study referred to in 
Part C.1 of the Project;
(b)
by not later than the date in which the review referred to in Section 
3.07 of this  Agreement shall take place, furnish to the Bank, for comments, the 
results of such study; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out the recommendations of such study, in accordance 
with a time frame satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall: (a) furnish to the Bank, by not later than the 
date in which the review referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement shall take 
place, the preliminary results of the study included in Part C.3 of the Project; and
(b)
thereafter, finalize the carrying out of such study, in accordance with a 
time frame satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.12. Without limitation to the obligation included in Section 3.01 
above, the Borrower shall allocate in its annual budget for the years 1992 through 
1996, for expenditures for basic education, amounts satisfactory to the Bank, such 
amounts to be, in relation to the total amount allocated for education in the 
Borrower's annual budgets, equivalent to the following minimum ratios:
(i)
51.0% for calendar year 1992;
 
(ii)
52.5% for calendar year 1993;
 
(iii)
53.3% for calendar year 1994;
 
(iv)
54.4% for calendar year 1995; and
 
(v)
53.8% for calendar year 1996.
 
For the purposes of this Section, the term "basic education" means the education 
provided for in the schools of the Borrower's territory, in grades 1 through 6 
(primary education) and in grades 7 through 9 (academic program).
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  6
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account and the Project 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
That the conditions for the first disbursement under the IDB Loan 
Agreement shall not have been met by May 31, 1992, or such later date as the Bank may 
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this Section:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
IDB Loan or any other loan or grant made to the Borrower for 
the financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the relevant agreement; or
(B)
the IDB Loan or any such other loan shall have become due 
and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
Page  7
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(c)
The MEP Decree shall have been amended, abrogated or waived, without the 
agreement of the Bank. 
(d)
Any of the parties to the contract entered into between the Borrower, 
through MEP, and IIMEC, dated April 30, 1991, for the design and implementation of the 
student testing and evaluation activities under Part B.4 of the Project, shall have 
failed to comply with its respective obligations thereunder.
(e)
The agreement entered into among the Borrower and Universidad de Costa 
Rica, Universidad Nacional Autonoma and Universidad Nacional de Educacion a Distancia, 
dated September 17, 1991, or any agreement entered into between the Borrower and any 
other university located in the Borrower's territory, for the carrying out of Part A.4 
(i) of the Project, shall have been amended, abrogated or waived, without the 
agreement of the Bank.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur 
subject, in the case of Section 5.01 (b), to the proviso of Section 5.01 (b) (ii) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the IDB Loan Agreement has been entered into by the parties thereto;
 
(b)
the Borrower has established PCU and has appointed, for PCU, a director, 
an architect or engineer, a procurement specialist, a computer specialist, an 
accountant and two educators and necessary support staff, all with qualifications and 
under terms of employment satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited in such 
account an amount in Colones equivalent to at least $300,000.
Section 6.02. The date March 9, 1992 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Avenida Central - Calle 20
Apartado Postal 5016
1000 - San Jose, Costa Rica
Telex:
Page  8
2277 MINHAC - CR
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
By /s/ Gonzalo Facio Segreda
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                8,500,000        78%
    under Parts A.5,
    A.6 and A.7
    (limited to the
    new regional
    center in
    Puntarenas and
    the existing
    regional centers
    in San Jose and
    Limon)
(2) Equipment,                 1,500,000        100% of foreign
    furniture and                               expenditures and
    vehicles                                    85% of local
                                                expenditures
Page  9
(3) Training, and              7,000,000        100%
    training
    materials
(4) Technical                    400,000        100%
    assistance
    (including con-
    sultants' services
    and studies)
(5) Incremental                3,000,000        100% until
    Operating Costs                             withdrawals have
                                                reached the
                                                equivalent of
                                                $1,300,000;
                                                70% thereafter,
                                                until withdrawals
                                                have reached the
                                                equivalent of
                                                $2,500,000; and
                                                25% thereafter
(6) Unallocated                2,600,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                23,000,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental salaries for teachers 
who completed the training program included in Part A.4 of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), 
(2), (3) and (4) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after July 6, 1991;
(b)
under Part A.7 of the Project, until evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, 
has been provided that: (i) the MEP Decree has been duly published in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the functions and authority of the regional 
centers referred to in Part A.7 of the Project have been established, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) staff, which shall include (in each case), among 
others, a regional director and the heads of the teacher training, curriculum, 
statistics management, and budget divisions, in quantity and with skills and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank, have been appointed in respect of each of the six 
regional centers referred to in Part A.7 of the Project;
(c)
under Part C.3 of the Project, until the Borrower has furnished to the 
Bank: (i) terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, for the evaluation of the 
computer-assisted learning program to be carried out under Part C.3 of the Project; 
(ii) an implementation plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out of a 
computer-assisted learning program for secondary education, satisfactory to the Bank; 
and (iii) an evaluation, satisfactory to the Bank, of the effectiveness of the 
computer-assisted learning program for primary education presently being carried out 
in public schools located in the Borrower's territory; and
(d)
under Part A.4 (i) of the Project, with respect to each university 
participating in the carrying out of such Part of the Project, until the Borrower has: 
(i) furnished to the Bank evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that each such 
Page  10
university has the capacity of carrying out such Part of the Project; and (ii) entered 
into an  agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the participation of each 
such university in the carrying out of such Part of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to:
(a)
improve the quality and efficiency of the provision of basic education;
 
(b)
strengthen the planning and administration capacity of MEP; and
 
(c)
assist the Borrower in improving the quality and effectiveness of its 
secondary education program.
The Project supports MEP's Plan General de Educacion for the years 1990 through 
1994 and consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Basic Education Quality Improvement
 
1.
Development of a new school curriculum for first through ninth grades, aimed at: 
(i) adapting the course content and curriculum programs to reflect regional and local 
realities; (ii) integrating new subject areas including, inter alia, ecology, 
health/nutrition, family life, public safety and civic values; (iii) applying more 
interactive student/teaching/learning strategies; and (iv) monitoring students and 
undertaking periodic student achievement testing.
2.
Enhancement of student motivation and achievement through the preparation, 
publication, validation, printing and/or distribution of: (i) textbooks, workbooks and 
teacher manuals; (ii) supplementary materials including, inter alia, library books, 
posters, maps and science equipment; and (iii) distance education materials via radio, 
audio cassettes and television.
3.
Introduction of a comprehensive teacher training program aimed at: (i) providing 
introductory courses for secondary school graduates entering the teaching profession; 
and (ii) improving and enhancing the skills of teachers, school principals and 
supervisors.
4.
Provision of in-service training through: (i) certification programs for 
graduates of secondary school and for uncertified teachers; and (ii) upgrading courses 
for teachers working in first through ninth grades of academic schools.
5.
(i) Rehabilitation of about 2,300 classrooms; and (ii) construction and 
replacement of about 240 classrooms; at the primary level, including the provision and 
utilization of furniture, equipment and sanitary installations.
6.
Construction of about 110 houses for teachers in marginal areas of the 
Borrower's territory, aimed at attracting teachers to such areas.
7.
Construction and equipping of four new regional centers, located in Liberia, 
Puntarenas, San Carlos and Perez Zeledon, and remodelling of two of the six existing 
regional centers, located in San Jose and Limon.
8.
Preservation and maintenance of public schools, including the provision and 
utilization of furniture and equipment.
Part B:
Strengthening of Sector Planning and Management
 
1.
Strengthening of the planning and management capacity of the MEP's central 
offices, located in San Jose.
2.
Assistance to the Borrower in carrying out its decentralization policy in 
respect of education, by the installation of an effective management information 
system at central and regional levels.
3.
Provision of computers and formulation of staff development programs for MEP, 
(inter alia, in the areas of personnel management, financial and budgetary control, 
and educational planning).
Page  11
4.
Development of an evaluation unit in MEP (the functions of which would include 
student testing and evaluation activities). 
5.
Carrying out of a study on the utilization of school time in the Borrower's 
territory.
Part C:
Secondary Education Quality Improvement
 
1.
Carrying out of a study of the secondary education system to determine means and 
policies for improving the quality, efficiency and relevance of secondary education.
2.
Carrying out of pilot programs to promote modern trends in interactive learning 
and enhanced student performance by, inter alia, the provision of computers, the 
revision of curricula, and the training of teacher and administrators in approximately 
20 selected secondary academic schools.
3.
Carrying out of a study on the achievement of students attending the schools 
referred to in paragraph 2 above, as compared with the achievements of students 
attending other schools.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning on March 15, 1997
through March 15, 2008
960,000
 
On September 15, 2008
920,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum)
Page  12
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for: (i) civil works; and (ii) school 
furniture, computer equipment and educational materials and equipment; shall be 
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $1,500,000 and 
more than $200,000, respectively.
3.
All procurement of goods and works, whether or not international competitive 
bidding applies, shall take place using standard bidding documents which are 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Costa Rica may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
I.
Works
 
1.
Works or groups of works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$1,500,000 per contract, but more than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Except as provided in paragraph 3 below, works or groups of works estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $7,110,000 for works or group of works under Parts A.5 (ii) and A.6 of 
the Project, and to $2,000,000 for works or group of works under Part A.5 (i) of the 
Project, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations obtained from at least three contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Works or group of works under Part A.5 (i) of the Project, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $15,000 or less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded 
after direct negotiations with contractors, in accordance with procedures acceptable 
to the Bank, provided, however, that the aggregate amount of such contracts shall not 
Page  13
exceed the equivalent of $3,500,000.
II.
Goods
 
1.
Goods or groups of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more per 
contract, but less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Bank.
2.
Goods or groups of goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 
per contract: (i) up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, for goods other 
than short anthologies and basic equipment under Part A.4 of the Project; (ii) up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $250,000, for short anthologies to be printed under 
Part A.4 of the Project; and (iii) up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $60,000 for 
basic equipment under Part A.4 of the Project may be awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract awarded pursuant to Part A hereof, each 
contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, and the 
first contracts awarded pursuant to Part C.I.1 (irrespective of the amount) and Part 
C.II.1, respectively, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  14
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of theAuthorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the  Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
Page  15
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
